

601 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Couple Who Stirred Issue of Same-Sex Marriage Still Hopeful

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, July 26

 BODY:
Having fallen in love at first sight at a disco dance lesson and spent 19 inseparable years from that very moment, Joseph Melillo and Patrick Lagon tend to believe in kismet.
But the surprising tale of how their simple desire to wed turned into a national election-year obsession -- and brought their mellow, orchid-strewn state willy-nilly to the verge of a social revolution -- would test anyone's belief in coincidence. 
 Mr. Melillo said that when he and Mr. Lagon decided to wed in 1990, they thought they might be able to walk in, apply for a marriage license, and sign it.
"We were just two guys in love who wanted to get married," Mr. Melillo recalled, speaking over the articulate squawks of a cockatoo named Peewee in the office of the silk-screening company he and Mr. Lagon own. "It's unfortunate it's all gotten so political."
It has indeed become political: the House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved the pre-emptive Defense of Marriage Act defining marriage as a union between a man and a woman, on July 12. It has also become legal: the next round in a Hawaii trial court comes on Sept. 1, and is expected to leave backers of same-sex marriage here just one step short of victory.
But though the would-be spouses, their lawyer and even state officials are lightly amazed at the unexpected political snowball they started, they can also see a certain logic as to why it began here.
Hawaii, with its potpourri of cultures, is also known for its tolerance, and although the Legislature has rejected proposals to create a "domestic partnership" setup in lieu of same-sex marriage, most of the sulfuric, Sodom-and-Gomorrah warnings have come from the mainland.
"It's the aloha spirit -- there's such tolerance here," Mr. Melillo said.
The state is politically liberal as well, ruled by Democrats in a virtual one-party system, and was one of the first states to legalize abortion and pass the Equal Rights Amendment.
Despite all that, it has been no easy road for the would-be spouses and their lawyer, Daniel Foley, who took the case for Mr. Melillo, Mr. Lagon and two lesbian couples more out of sympathy than any hope of winning.
Until the state Supreme Court ruled partly in their favor in May 1993, they had little attention and support from gay groups, which were busy fighting other battles and divided on the issue of gay marriage. Some gay-rights advocates still argue that the campaign to legalize such unions diverts attention from more important issues, like AIDS.
Nor did civil rights groups, like the American Civil Liberties Union, support them before the victory. The couples did much of the fund-raising for their lawyers' fees themselves, at dinners and barbecues.
That changed after the 1993 decision, in which the Hawaii Supreme Court found that the ban on same-sex marriage violated the due process clause in the state constitution and sent the case back to the trial court for the state to justify itself.
Now the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, the premier gay legal organization, is helping with the legal work, and the Hawaii Equal Rights Marriage Project, which raises money for the case, has backers around the country.
A pivotal factor in the 1993 decision, Mr. Foley believes, was a change in the Hawaiian Supreme Court. When he began the case in 1990, he said, "The court was five men approaching 70; from that time through '93 you had a changing of the guard and you had a baby boomer court with one woman, and that was a major difference."
Although controversy has swirled around the case, the lives of Mr. Melillo and Mr. Lagon show little sign of the broad impact their engagement has had. Unlike Ninia Baehr and Genora Dancel, a photogenic lesbian couple suing with them, they are invited to do virtually no public speaking or fund-raiser schmoozing these days, Mr. Melillo said.
Rather, their days are deeply domestic, filled with concerns about whether their T-shirt silk-screening company will survive the current downturn in the Hawaiian economy, getting rid of the termites eating their suburban house not far from Pearl Harbor and getting their photocopying machine fixed. Relaxed, warm and a touch campy, they are kept busier than they would like already, with their silk-screening company and other creative and commercial endeavors, which range from catering -- Mr. Melillo is a professional chef -- to art -- Mr. Lagon is a talented stylist in ink and watercolor -- to designing and sewing costumes for Waikiki Beach hotel shows, arranging flowers and fashioning leis from the bounty of the blooming trees gracing their house.
But every once in a while, the case kicks up again.
That is expected to happen in September, when, after many months of delay, a trial court judge is scheduled to hear a State Deputy Attorney General defend the state law. The Attorney General's office must prove there is a "compelling state interest" for same-sex marriage to remain banned.
"That burden is very hard to meet," said Mr. Foley, a civil rights specialist who helped Micronesia fashion its Constitution. "That's why everyone is predicting I'll win."
Even if he does win, Mr. Foley said, the judge will almost surely stay the decision pending appeal, because if same-sex couples started marrying and then the decision was overturned, the legal ramifications would be complex. Mr. Foley expects the circuit court decision by November, the state appeal to the State Supreme Court in December.
Concern that a decision to legalize same-sex marriages would result in gay couples from the mainland traveling to Hawaii to wed has led conservatives in at least 19 states to seek new state laws denying recognition to such unions. Without specific laws, states would be obliged under the United States Constitution to recognize same-sex marriages performed in another state.
Similar worries led to the Defense of Marriage Act, which awaits action in the Senate and which President Clinton has said he would sign. The act does not outlaw same-sex unions, but by withholding Federal tax, pension, health and other benefits would deny gay couples many of the civil advantages of marriage. It would also allow all states to ignore same-sex marriages performed elsewhere.
The hubbub around the Defense of Marriage Bill, and similar storms over the issue in the Hawaii Legislature for the last two years, puzzles Mr. Melillo: "They have nothing better to do than decide if two guys or two girls can get married?" he asked.
Hawaii's Attorney General, Margery Bronster, has found herself under pressure from conservative groups to use attacks against homosexuality in the state's defense. Her office has said it would not take any "homophobic" tacks; its main argument, Ms. Bronster said, concerns children as the compelling state interest. "All things being equal, the best surroundings for a child is within a family with a father and a mother," she said.
"It's not saying you can only get married if you have children," she added, "but it's promoting a family where you'd have, in the best circumstances, a mother, a father and children, and that's reflected in our law in many ways."
So far. Mr. Melillo, 48, said he and Mr. Lagon, 39, are confident of winning eventually and even dream of having one of the Supreme Court justices marry them.
"I'm in the background planning the wedding," said Mr. Lagon, who was born in Hawaii to a Filipino family. Mr. Melillo is originally from Summit, N.J.; both came from strong Catholic families, and say their relatives support them fully.
After years of waiting, they plan to marry the very day it becomes legal, even if that means complications planning the large reception they want. And if and when they are truly married, Mr. Melillo said, they could get serious about adopting children.
"I'm the one who keeps saying: 'When? When can we? Will we?' " he said. "We're getting older and let's have someone in our lives besides us and our dogs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Melillo, left, and Patrick Lagon say they never intended to create a political storm when, several years ago, they decided to try to marry. But their request has brought a national debate over same-sex marriage. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 199 DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (93%); HAWAII, USA (93%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; HOMOSEXUALITY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MARRIAGE (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COHABITATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (87%); CIVIL RIGHTS (86%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (72%); LGBT RIGHTS (70%); APPROVALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); FUNDRAISING (60%); ABORTION (60%); 

PERSON: MELILLO, JOSEPH; LAGON, PATRICK; GOLDBERG, CAREY JOSEPH A MELILLO (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



602 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Miami Fetes 100 Years of Hyperbole

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 26

 BODY:
Henry Flagler had no intention of building anything here, where the Miami River pours into Biscayne Bay. But the 19th-century railroad tycoon, responsible for much of South Florida's early development, changed his plans after meeting Julia Tuttle, a local landowner bearing an orange blossom and big dreams for a new American city.
Less than one year after Mrs. Tuttle's public relations gambit, according to Miami's official history, the city of Miami was founded on a steamy July day in 1896. This Sunday, Miami celebrates its founding with a centennial birthday festival along the bay. 
 Mrs. Tuttle's orange blossom, as it turned out, was an effective way to grab Mr. Flagler's attention in 1895. That season's citrus crop, which was primarily harvested in North Florida then, had been wiped out by unseasonably cold weather. Mrs. Tuttle, who owned 640 acres on the bay, delivered a simple, symbolic message with that blossom: Miami was warm, and its sunshine was reliable.
She promised the industrialist that he could have half of her property if he agreed to build a hotel on the site, as well as a railroad terminus. Mr. Flagler, recognizing that the weather and the location of Mrs. Tuttle's land made it a fine candidate for development and agriculture, immediately set to work.
"Miami will eventually be one of the greatest and most important cities, financially, commercially and residential, as well as the most important deep-water port in all the southland," Mrs. Tuttle said in 1896.
Arva Moore Parks, a Miami native who wrote the city's official history, "Miami: The Magic City," is quick to remind the uninitiated that Miami was the first major United States city founded by a woman.
Mrs. Parks, 57, is co-chairwoman of Miami Centennial '96, the committee planning the city's birthday celebration in Biscayne Park, less than a mile from where Mr. Flagler's Royal Palm Hotel once stood; the site is now home to a parking lot. Mrs. Parks likes to say that Mrs. Tuttle was a true visionary. But she is quick to add that hyperbole has always played a role in Miami's history.
"I don't think we've stopped since Julia Tuttle," Mrs. Parks said. "We have a history of hype. One thing you have to realize is, up until 20 years ago, our main economy was tourism. We had to advertise to bring people down. We were anxious to grow."
That eagerness spawned countless slogans and advertising campaigns, designed to attract people to Miami. An abundance of sun and surf images color the city's public relations gestures and have succeeded in bringing people tired of cold winters to a city that calls itself the Capital of the Americas, a title that can be claimed now, as opposed to just 10 years ago, without hyperbole, Mrs. Parks said.
"We've really become the brain trust for Latin America," she said. "The lawyers, accountants, many professionals from Latin America, are trained here. Parents send their children here for their education. It's bigger now, more cosmopolitan. We were more talk than reality 10 years ago."
In fact, Mrs. Tuttle's grandest predictions have already come to pass, with Miami International Airport outranking all other United States airports in terms of international cargo traffic and ranking second in the nation in international passenger loads. The Port of Miami handles more passengers per year than any other port in the nation, largely on the strength of cruise lines that operate here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORY RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); CITRUS GROVES (69%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); 

PERSON: JULIA TUTTLE (95%); HENRY FLAGLER (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



603 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Strong Despite U.S. Law, Castro Says

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: HAVANA, July 27

 BODY:
President Fidel Castro says that Cuba is recovering from economic recession and that this is the country's answer to a United States law aimed at curbing foreign investment on the island.
In his annual speech on the anniversary of a guerrilla attack he led on an army barracks in 1953, Mr. Castro rebuked President Clinton on Friday night for having signed into law measures aimed at tightening the American economic embargo against Cuba. Mr. Clinton's action on March 12 was the result of "political opportunism" and "constituted a lack of morality, a lack of ethics," Mr. Castro said. 
 In a speech in Holguin, 435 miles east of Havana, Mr. Castro cited figures released this week by the Government that said the country's gross domestic product had grown 9.6 percent in the first six months of the year.
He said this growth, achieved mainly through advances in sugar production, tourism and nickel mining, constituted an "Olympic medal" for the Cuban people and was a fitting response to the law, known as Helms-Burton, that Mr. Clinton signed in March.
Senator Jesse Helms and Representative Dan Burton were the main Republican sponsors of the law, which threatens sanctions against foreign investors in Cuba who are judged to be "trafficking" in property expropriated from United States citizens or from Cubans who later became United States citizens.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); HAVANA, CUBA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ETHICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); TRENDS (67%); ARMIES (57%); NICKEL MINING (52%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); DAN BURTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



604 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: In Canadians' Retort on Trade, Politics of the Absurd

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: TORONTO, July 27

 BODY:
They say they are speaking for 3 million Canadians whose Loyalist ancestors fled a revolutionary United States more than 200 years ago and who now want their family property back.
John Godfrey, a Liberal member of Parliament from Toronto, lays claim to an ancestral home in Carter's Grove, Va. Peter Milliken, a Liberal member from Kingston, Ont., has forebears who owned land in New York State's Mohawk Valley. 
 Standing proudly at Old Fort York, whose guns defended Toronto in the War of 1812 but were stilled by American amphibious forces who burned the fort in 1813, they say they want to get even with the United States for what it is doing to Canadians who do business with Cuba.
The two lawmakers announced on Wednesday that in the fall they will introduce a bill to do the same thing to recover property confiscated from Loyalists to the British crown as the Helms-Burton Law, passed this year, does to enable Americans to recover assets seized after the Cuban revolution of 1959.
"Our guns are old but they are big," said Mr. Godfrey. (In August 1814, in retaliation for the devastation at Fort York, the British burned Washington.)
Mr. Milliken added, "The idea is to point out that if you're going to use domestic law to interfere with business relations with foreign states, other people can do the same thing."
He said one constituent told him he had deeds for all of downtown Philadelphia. "If the bill passes," Mr. Milliken said with a grin, "he'll be a millionaire."
Grinning is what the two lawmakers did a lot of. This is not Government-sponsored legislation. It may elicit the sympathy of Prime Minister Jean Chretien, their party leader, who has bitterly assailed Helms-Burton -- as have European Union and Mexican leaders. But it will not have Mr. Chretien's support because of his reluctance to precipitate a real crisis with Canada's leading trade partner.
The bill will go in as one of the thousands of private member's bills that are introduced annually but rarely pass into law. Its sponsors' intention, they said, is to parody Helms-Burton with mirror-image provisions and to highlight what the Canadians insist is the absurdity of the American law.
Thus, under the bill, Canadians would be able to sue the current American owners of their Loyalist ancestors' property in Canadian courts. And corporate officers of American companies who engage in "trafficking" in confiscated Loyalist properties, as well as their spouses or minor children, would be barred from entering Canada.
But not everyone is laughing up here at the lawmakers' initiative.
Michael Bliss, a professor of history at the University of Toronto, said: "The whole point is kind of stupid because the United Empire Loyalists were compensated for their confiscated property. The loyalists actually did very well. I see all this as high silliness and grandstanding. Helms-Burton is a serious issue and should be treated seriously."
In 1802, after much debate, the United States and Britain signed a treaty settling all Loyalist claims. The United States paid a lump sum of 600,000 pounds, or $3 million. That was a lot of money in those days, nearly half the $7.9 million in the Federal budget.
Marc Thiessen, spokesman for Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, said he wanted to thank the two Canadian lawmakers for accepting the principle that someone whose property has been expropriated is entitled to compensation.
He added, "We encourage Godfrey and Milliken, if they feel inadequately compensated, to take it up with John Major" -- the Prime Minister of Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CANADA; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%); 

SUBJECT: REVOLUTIONARY WAR, AMERICAN (1775-83); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ASSET FORFEITURE (90%); HISTORY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MILLIKEN, PETER (MP); GODFFREY, JOHN (MP); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H JEAN CHRETIEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



605 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Safety Plan for Puerto Rican Projects

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: LUQUILLO, P.R.

 BODY:
The change that everyone talks about is safety. "You don't have to be afraid of a stray bullet," Luz D. Quinones, a resident of the Yuquiyu housing project, said recently.
Two and a half years ago, residents were afraid. 
 Five young people were gunned down in a drug-related massacre on the basketball court at the entrance Yuquiyu shares with the Cemi housing project.
A few days later the police and the National Guard moved in to patrol the two public housing complexes as part of Puerto Rico's anticrime "intervention program" in the projects.
The program has drawn criticism as a threat to civil liberties from a coalition of organizations that include the Human Rights Commission of the Puerto Rican Bar Association, which says that bringing the National Guard into housing projects is a dangerous precedent.
There is also skepticism among critics about whether crime has actually been curbed or just moved elsewhere. But politicians in cities that include Washington and Chicago have called for similar measures, and here in Luquillo, most of the 683 tenants in the two projects say they are pleased with the results.
So, surveys and interviews show, are those in the other public housing projects on the island where intervention programs have been established. The stationing of police officers and guardsmen at the projects is followed by the installation of walls, fences and permanent security guards to keep strangers out.
In the approximately three years the program has been in operation, it has reached about two-fifths of the public housing units in Puerto Rico.
The overwhelming tenants' reaction is relief. Before the stepped-up security, according to a recent poll of 1,097 residents of 14 of the 79 projects where the program is in effect, only 13 percent of residents considered themselves safe.
The poll, conducted by Prof. Elena Martinez of the University of Puerto Rico, found that 68 percent of the residents said security was better since the program started, and 71 percent said the general quality of life had improved.
Seventy-five percent said they encountered security personnel every day. There is no set period for replacing the police officers and guardsmen with project security personnel.
The survey found, in fact, that residents' attention had turned from security to need for jobs and sports facilities. To follow up the increased security, Government officials have moved to rejuvenate the projects with social services and community contacts. Many dangerous projects did without such contacts, ranging from visits by health service personnel to deliveries of fast food.
Gov. Pedro J. Rossello calls the intervention program "a process of re-empowering the residents." He said in a recent interview that project residents had higher self-esteem as a result of the program, quoting a letter from a resident of one project, who wrote, "Thanks, Governor, for letting everybody know we're people."
Carlos Vivoni, the Puerto Rican Secretary of Housing, said his department and 15 others worked together in the follow-up program on rehabilitation in what they call Quality of Life Councils, combining efforts to combat drug addiction, high school dropouts and unemployment.
Mr. Vivoni estimated that the crime rate in all the affected projects had dropped by 80 percent. At El Cemi and Yuquiyu, he said, 91 school dropouts had returned to classes, 24 drug addicts were under treatment, 30 children were participating in sports programs and 37 tenants had new jobs.
Across the island, a large share of the jobs has come from construction at the housing projects. About 100 tenants from all the projects have been hired to build the new fences and gates, said Carlos Pesquera, the Secretary of Transportation and Public Works.
Up beyond the Cemi basketball court sits one symbol of success, a new pizza stand managed by a resident. For three months Elena Martinez, a former factory worker who is no relation to Professor Martinez, has sold pizza slices for $1 and soft drinks for 50 cents, on a franchise from a local chain.
If business keeps up, she said, she hopes to get a cart that will enable her to move the business around the two projects.
Governor Rossello, who seems comfortably ahead in a race for re-election this fall, contended the heightened security measures were a critical part of a program that generally emphasizes self-reliance rather than dependence on government.
The housing department now contracts with private industry to manage the projects and is hoping to sell many public housing units to the residents as condominiums. The government plans to subsidize mortgages in this effort.
But the fences and gates at the public housing projects are central to safety, the Governor said. Luxury apartment buldings and wealthy communities have guards and often walls, he said, and the poor need the protection even more.
"You cannot allow only those communities that have the resources to protect themselves," Governor Rossello said.
Out on the court at Cemi, young men were playing basketball. "Now," said Rosael Ramos, a 41-year-old single mother, "you can let the children out of the apartment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The police and National Guardsmen have taken over security at many Puerto Rican housing projects in an "intervention program." Officer Julian Centeno questioned a visitor to the Yuquiyu project on Friday.; Joselin Rodrigues, 11, left, and Alexis Nunez, 6, shown Friday at the Yuquiyu project, which is safer after the police took over the security. (Photographs by Ricardo Figueroa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GUARD (US) PUERTO RICAN DRYPERS CORP (91%); PUERTO RICAN CEMENT CO INC (91%); PUERTO RICAN INSURANCE AGENCY INC (91%); PUERTO RICAN AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO; PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); INTERVIEWS (87%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); BASKETBALL (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM ELENA MARTINEZ (68%); CARLOS VIVONI (56%); PEDRO J ROSSELLO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



606 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3766 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON RECORD;
Interview With Clinton: Political Landscape

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from an interview with President Clinton conducted on July 8 with reporters and editors of The New York Times:
Q. If you look across the four years of your Administration, your first two years were your most activist ones, probably the ones where you had the most accomplishments. And yet, that was when your popularity was lowest and the public voted in the Republicans in Congress. The last two years, the Republicans have been in control of Congress, and yet your popularity has soared. What do you make of this strange situation? 

 A. Well, I think I would make maybe three points about that. First of all, in the first two years, I had to do some things that were controversial, particularly with specific interest groups, but the benefits were not apparent by Election Day '94.
I mean, remember what a hard fight we had to pass the deficit reduction plan in '93, with the various component parts of it, which included doubling the earned-income tax credit for families. It included a dramatic departure in the student loan program, as a real improvement in the student loan program, but the interest groups didn't like that. And the whole deficit reduction plan was roundly condemned by the Republicans, and they all voted against it.
But the full economic benefits of it, even though we had a good year in '93 and a good year in '94, were not manifest in the lives of ordinary people, didn't really begin until starting about a year ago, we began to see some sense that, well, hey, maybe this thing is really getting better. . . .
So I would say a lot of the positive things that were done -- I could make the same points in education, in the environment, in welfare, where we'd already done a lot of the waivers to give states the power to move people from welfare to work, right across the -- were not particularly manifest. Point 1.
Point 2, the last image people had of the President and the Congress was the failure of health care. And I think it sort of overshadowed and enshrouded the campaign -- I mean, the campaign of '94.
Then the third point I would make is that in '95 and '96, I have not been as active in Congress, although to be sure that some important legislation passed -- the most important things, I would say, are the telecommunications bill, the anti-terrorism bill, the lobby reform bill. . . .
But I have been -- I think the reason is that people for the first time had a clear sense of what the choices were between the Congressional Republican vision of how America should go into the 21st century and my vision. And, I think, in a funny way the contrast between the two approaches made it easier for people to kind of focus on what they thought and what they believed and how the American people identified with the differences in our approach on the environment, for example, or on what should happen in the Medicare program, or what our education policies ought to be, or just right across the board.
So I think that those are the three reasons. I also would say that you shouldn't judge -- and I say this to myself as well as you -- one of the things that I have learned in the last two years is that the President can do an awful lot of things by executive action, so that the sum total of the Presidency's impact on the American people at home is not just what happens in the Congress, it also involves what can be done by way of executive action and by way of creating partnerships with people throughout the country.
I don't know how many people -- I'll just give you just a couple of examples. We started this national movement to hook up all the schools to the Internet by the year 2000. And it's sort of taken on a life of its own, it's going like -- I tried to highlight communities that were doing curfews and school uniforms, and all we did was to put out documents from the Education Department or the Justice Department showing how to do this legally and not have any problems with it. And every day, another community calls us and does this. . . .
 
ON CHANGE
 
 Q. So you would reject the idea that the public somehow is allergic to change and that when you tried to bring about change, they turned on you, and when the Republicans tried to bring about change, they turned on them?
 
 A. No. No, I disagree. I would disagree with that. I also agree, however, that change is hard. The public is -- change is difficult, but it depends on what kind of change it was. The public -- you just have to say that it's going to be hard, and you have to put the choices out. But I believe -- I had a hard fight for Nafta, for example, and the public was more or less evenly divided on it. But after we did it, the public was more in favor of it than opposed to it. . . .
I think that -- on the other hand, I think that if you look at the health care issue, I think that I overestimated the extent to which a person elected with a minority of the votes in an environment that was complex, to say the least, could achieve a sweeping overhaul of the health care system when no previous President had been able to do it for decades and decades, and against the enormous amount of organizational effort and funding that was spent to convince the American people of something that was not accurate -- namely, that we wanted to have the Government take over the health care system or that we wanted to regulate it with a cumbersome bureaucracy -- neither of which was true, but I think they believed that. And I think people said, hey, that's not the kind of change we want.
 
 Q. You said that the ability of affecting major change with a minority of the votes was one of the problems. Isn't that not, in fact, going to be a problem for the foreseeable future in a three-way race?
 
 A. It's different now. For one thing, I'm a known quantity, Senator Dole's a known quantity; our two approaches are clearly known. And if third- or fourth- or fifth-party candidates get enough votes in the aggregate to pull the victor below a majority, it will still become apparent whether the policies, the approaches we want to take command the support of the majority of the America people or not. . . .
 
ON A SECOND TERM
 
 Q. Why don't we go from there to a second term? In terms of what you want to do specifically in a second term, you tend to focus on the unfinished agenda: Kennedy-Kassebaum, the balanced budget, the welfare bill. Beyond this unfinished agenda, what would you like to accomplish in the second term?
 
 A. Let me take just a minute or two to sort of say where I think the second term is in history. When I ran for President four years ago, I gave a series of speeches at Georgetown in 1991 which basically described where I thought our country was and where I thought it ought to go, moving to the 21st century. So I always viewed this project, if you will, as more than a four-year project.
My whole idea was trying to get our nation to buy into a vision of America at the dawn of the 21st century that -- basically a vision that said, No. 1, we will be the world's strongest force for peace and freedom and prosperity; No. 2, we will be a country, with all of our diversity and differences, that will still have the American dream alive for everybody who is willing to work for it; and No. 3, we will manage all the differences among Americans in a way that brings us together as a community instead of divides us, the way so many countries are being divided by race and ethnicity and religion today. That was my vision. . . .
And I felt -- my little three-word prescription for what the strategy to implement the vision was: create more opportunity, demand more responsibility and build a greater sense of community. And that's essentially what I have tried to do.
Now, if you look at where we are and where we ought to go . . . let's take the economy for one. I think what we have done as Americans, not just the President, and not just the President and the Federal Reserve Chairman, but the whole -- or the President and the Congress, or the economic planners -- but as Americans, what we have done in the last four years is put our economic house in order, restore growth and create opportunity. We have succeeded in reducing the deficit, expanding trade, targeting investment in critical areas, and we have over 10 million new jobs.
Now, what's missing in this picture? I think you have to ask yourself what's missing in this picture in the second term. What's missing in this picture is that not every American has the capacity to take advantage of the opportunities. Of these 10 million new jobs, I should point out, it is no longer true that most of them are part-time, lower-wage jobs. Two thirds of these jobs almost are in higher-wage job categories. But there is still a lot of stagnation and insecurity in the picture. So what's missing in this picture? How are we going to give all Americans who are responsible the opportunity to succeed? And I would argue that, therefore, this naturally leads us to the next set of initiatives. And I think that in my second term I would focus much, much more on educational opportunity and performance even than I did in the first term, although, as you know, we spent a lot of time in '93 and '94 passing the education programs for those two years.
And let me just give you some examples. I believe that we should make two years of education beyond high school the norm for everyone. That's why I proposed -- make the tax-credit proposal equal to almost every state's community college tuition -- I did at Princeton. I believe we should allow people of any age a deduction for the cost of college tuition, whether in four-year colleges, graduate schools or whatever. I think that's important. I believe we should pass what I have called the G.I. Bill for America's workers. . . .
I think we ought to have job skill grants to people that basically break down all these Government programs, 70 or more of them, just collapse them, and give people a grant and let them then purchase their job placement services and their job training, if they need it.
I believe we should pass the package of pension reforms that I have presented to the Congress so that someone in a small business or a self-employed person who may move from job to job can carry a pension around with him or her for a lifetime. And if you're unemployed for a while and you can't pay into it, you don't lose it. And if you change jobs from one small firm to another, you don't have to wait as you do now eight or nine months trying to transfer your 401(k) and do all that. I think we need to create a seamless web of opportunity for pension security there. Part of that, also, is allowing more people access to I.R.A.'s, which you can withdraw from for education, health care or other emergency purposes. But I think that's important.
The next thing I think it's important to do, if you assume Kennedy-Kassebaum passes -- let's assume that for the moment -- then I think we need to look at what we can do to try to find ways for people to hold on to health insurance if they have sustained periods of unemployment, if they outrun their ability to maintain their old health insurance policy because their employer is not obligated to pay anymore. In other words, Kennedy-Kassebaum will give you the right to keep it, but it wouldn't give you the co-pay from your employer for a long time. . . .
 
ON HIS ACHIEVEMENTS AND DISAPPOINTMENTS
 
 Q. You've answered a lot of your achievements. Are there any more you want to throw in, and what would you say your errors have been?
 
 A. You know, I don't want to spend a lot of time talking about that. I'm sure you've been briefed about them. I think if -- let me just say, I made a couple notes here. . . . I think that compared to the vision I laid out to the American people and the hopes that I had when I came in office, three and a half years into this great adventure, I think we have done what I thought we should do with good results with regard to the economy, fighting crime, welfare, education, the environment, trade, foreign policy and reinventing Government. We've actually reduced the Government more than I thought we could in the first three and a half years. And I want to reconfigure it more. . . .
I am disappointed that we did not do more in health care. We didn't provide the full middle-class tax cut that I mentioned -- I acknowledged that. And I think generally in the deficit-reduction effort, our country needs some more investment in some critical areas. I already said -- research, technology, education and the environment, I would like to do more. But I think that given the fact that we always live in an imperfect world, I think we made the right decision because getting the interest rates down and getting the economy going again was a precondition of having a lot of other good things happen.
 
ON WHITEWATER
 
 Q. You have had a stormy Administration. There continues be be this thing in the polls in which people say when asked the question, do you think that the President and his wife were fully forthcoming on all these issues that just keep coming up -- and I understand it must drive you crazy -- the answer is no. And the question, I guess, is why? And what can you do about that?
 
 A. Well, I don't know. I think that all I can do is to answer the questions that are asked and provide all the evidence that I've asked. I can say this. We've given more information on more people and more subjects I think than anybody ever has. And if you look at the D'Amato hearings, which I think is one of the reasons we haven't done more in this Congress is that there was more time spent in the hearings of D'Amato than on Medicare, Medicaid, welfare, the economy, education and all other subjects put together. By far. Look at what the evidence pointed out. The evidence adduced by them failed to have one single, solitary shred of evidence showing any wrongdoing by me. In fact, the evidence that they tried to adduce about my governorship showed high ethical conduct, even in dealing with people who had strongly supported me. And there was no evidence of wrongdoing by the First Lady. . . .
 
 Q. They still don't believe that you're telling the full truth.
 
 A. There's nothing I can do about that except to tell the truth. I think it has something to do with the way the issues have been presented to them. But if you start from Day 1 and you persist until the end in setting up an issue in which you say, we're going to ask a bunch of questions and once they're disproved, we won't bother to tell you that there was no evidence of them, we'll just ask a bunch of new questions and once those questions are answered, we won't bother to tell you those answers to those questions, we'll ask a bunch of new questions.
I mean, how many people in the United States do you think know what the Resolution Trust Corporation report said? Not very many. So all I can tell you is there's nothing I can do about that.
All I can tell you is I'm going to keep -- I'll cooperate with the people I'm supposed to cooperate with, I'll answer the questions I'm supposed to answer, but I believe in the end the American people will get it right. They normally do. I trust them. As the campaign goes along, if they have questions of me on this, I think that they'll ask them. But I also think people are -- a lot of people know that a whole lot of this has just been pure politics.
Now, I don't believe that about the F.B.I. files. That's a legitimate issue. And I say we are determined to cooperate, and I want to know what the truth was there myself. That's in a separate category. That's different. . . .
But the other business, I believe the American people know that there was a lot of politics in that and that they're interested in things which affect their lives and their future, and I'm fighting for them.
 
 Q. Have you personally tried to get to the bottom of the F.B.I. files things? Have you called in your top aides and said, "What do you know about this?"
 
 A. Let me tell you something. I have done everything that I thought I should do, consistent with also honoring the fact and the appearance that an investigation would go forward unhampered.
Ask Mr. Panetta and others. The last time we tried to do something like this, then what we did became the issue, you know. And so we have pledged to fully cooperate with them. We have encouraged them to get here in a hurry; let's get on the ground. What we have said is we'll put somebody with you and we'll do what we're supposed to do, but we want you here. . . . If somebody is here from the outside from the beginning, then we will be able to prove whatever needs to be proved.
Apart from that, I think the American people know there's lots of politics in the rest of this, and I think there's a discount factor there. But the most important thing to me is I just realized that the more time I spent on it and the more time I spent talking about it, the less time I would spend being President. And that I thought it was wrong, but I wasn't going to let it rob the American people of my Presidency. I was going to show up for work every day, put it out of my mind and go to work, except when I was required to actually respond to something. And that's what I've done. And as a result, I think we've been able to get quite a lot done here in the last three and a half years.
 
 Q. You're not just talking about the files, you're talking about the whole----
 
 A. The Whitewater process. . . . When you get elected President, you get four years, and every day those four years come closer to being elapsed. Every minute the President needs to be focused on -- I think literally every day, I think about what was the vision I had for this country when I came here: Is it still valid? Is our strategy working? What do we still need to do? Where have we failed? What do we need to do? What are we going to do in the next four years? Do I think I did a good job in the first four years? Yes, but that's what they hired me to do. And how are we going to build on it? And I know that the more I think about that and the less I think about anything else, the more likely I am to leave a legacy for the American people that is positive and good.
And so, what I try to do literally is just not even to think about the other things unless there is a specific issue where I can be helpful. If I can answer a question, if I can give information, if I can fulfill some specific responsibility, I try to do it. Otherwise, I try to just keep my eye on the ball. . . .
George just handed me a note. This is what it is. He just said you ought to point out that even though I said the F.B.I. was different, that does not mean that I think there's any evidence that anybody I know in a senior position did anything wrong.
 
ON FOREIGN POLICY
 
 Q. There's a lot that's happened.
 
 A. There's a lot that's happened, but the most important thing is we have to make foreign policy make sense to most ordinary Americans in a way that is not just episodic. You know, it kills us to see people dying in Bosnia at night, but why are we doing it in terms of the long term? But sometimes you just do things because they're right. There's something to be said for that -- Haiti or Bosnia or whatever, helping in Northern Ireland, Middle East. But also, how does it fit into this larger sense?
I think that's one point that is worth making because my view of this is that we had basically, you know, three big objectives. One was to finish the unfinished business of leaving the cold war behind. That's our relationship with Russia, our relationship with China, the North Korean nuclear problem and building a united Europe.
The second issue was dealing with the new security threats, ethnic hatreds and other kinds of internal bloodbaths. That's the Middle East, Bosnia, Northern Ireland, Haiti. Terrorism, which you know there's no point in my elaborating that. You know what we've done there. Drug-running, organized crime and these emerging environmental and health-related transnational threats.
And the third issue is building a new structure of opportunity and peace through trade investment and commerce. And that's Nafta, GATT, 200 trade agreements, Ron Brown's 10 emerging nations initiatives, what I did with APEC leaders and what we did with the summit of the Americas.
See, I think that the commerce thing, I think it's been wrongly positioned as are you choosing money over values. It seems to me that if America is in the center of these emerging networks, it dramatically increases our leverage to work with people for peace, for human rights and for stability in the world.
So when I think of the framework like that, that's how -- I'm trying to get to the point where I can explain to the American people, you know, how come we ought to pay our U.N. dues, why should we engage in peacekeeping missions, even though only 28 percent of the people thought I was right in Haiti and 38 percent in Bosnia or whatever the numbers were, why it really makes sense over the long run. Why did you help Mexico when people said 81 to 15 on the day you did it you were wrong? Why did you do it?
I think that it really is something that I think I need to take on even more is trying to figure out a way to make the American people believe not just episodically but instinctively that there's no longer an easy dividing line between foreign policy and domestic policy. That the world we're living in doesn't permit us that luxury anymore. And that we've got to break down that wall in our minds. . . .
I really try to think every day also about how all this looks to someone living in a medium-sized town in Ohio or California or Arkansas or anyplace else. You know, what it's like for them and how this can connect to their lives. That's what I -- if I have brought anything to the Presidency I think that is special, I think I do have a feel for how all these issues fit together and why. You know, fighting for the V-chip or regulating cigarette advertisements or trying to help communities adopt stiffer standards on truancy and curfews and all that, that's part of a security environment that's a piece of what we're trying to do with anti-terrorism and nonproliferation.
I try to see these connections, and I think that, slowly, I'm being able to communicate that to the American people in a way that resonates with them.
I hope that's true, and I believe it's true.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "The New York Times Poll" shows the results of six polls conducted by the New York Times about the president. (pgs. 29 & 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); STUDENT LOANS (67%); TERRORISM (50%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



607 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: BOMB AT THE OLYMPICS;
Heart Ailment Kills War Survivor in Altanta

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, July 27

 BODY:
Melih Uzunyol, who died in the Atlanta bombing today, was the chief cameraman of the state-owned Turkish Television. He had survived coverage of wars in Azerbaijan, Bosnia and the Persian Gulf but finally fell victim not to bullets, but to a weak heart, colleagues said today.
"As far as we know, he had a heart attack while running to cover the explosion and died on the way to hospital," said Orhan Tanakina, head of the Turkish Television Cameraman's Association. He had a history of heart problems. 
 He is survived by two children and his wife, Funda, an economics correspondent for the state-owned Anatolian News Agency.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Melih Uzunyol. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (88%); AZERBAIJAN (72%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (57%); 

COMPANY: TURKISH TELEVISION TURKISH TELEVISION CAMERAMAN'S ASSOCIATION (83%); ANATOLIAN NEWS AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TURKISH TELEVISION

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTENNIAL OLYMPIC PARK (ATLANTA); TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (88%); AZERBAIJAN (72%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (57%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS HEART DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (88%); 

PERSON: UZUNYOL, MELIH MELIH UZUNYOL (61%); ORHAN TANAKINA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



608 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4475 words

HEADLINE: Despite His Reversals, Clinton Stays Centered

SERIES: THE CLINTON RECORD: The Overview -- First of seven articles.

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
His hands in restless motion, Bill Clinton sat in the Oval Office earlier this month assessing the Presidency he calls "this great adventure."
At times pensive, other times fiery, his finger stabbing the air as he disputed a point, he confidently made his case for a second term. "As Americans, what we have done in the last four years is put our economic house in order, restore growth and create opportunity," Mr. Clinton said. "We have succeeded in reducing the deficit, expanding trade, targeting investment in critical areas, and we have over 10 million new jobs." 
 "Now, what's missing in this picture?" he asked during an interview earlier this month, adding, "What's missing in this picture is that not every American has the capacity to take advantage of the opportunities."
Mr. Clinton ticked off a raft of ideas to help. Tax credits for community college tuition. Guarantees that pensions can be taken from job to job. Vouchers for job training. Ways to give more people access to health insurance.
What was striking about the proposals was their modesty. They sounded so humble from a President who had once fought for a $30 billion jobs program and who had made such a bold stand to give all Americans "health care that can never be taken away, health care that is always there."
What a contrast from the grand visions of 1993, when Mr. Clinton swept into Washington for his inauguration from Thomas Jefferson's Monticello, repeating the third President's maxim that "to preserve the very foundations of our nation we would need dramatic change from time to time."
"Well, my fellow Americans," the 46-year-old President had said then, "this is our time. Let's embrace it."
But America, as it watched the early Clinton Presidency, did not embrace it. The very people whom Mr. Clinton had said he would serve -- "the hard-working Americans who make up our forgotten middle class" -- deserted his Democrats in droves or stayed home in the 1994 midterm elections, giving the Republicans control of Congress for the first time in half a century.
That election sent shudders through the White House and virtually split Mr. Clinton's Presidency into periods so distinct that his own advisers acknowledge that they could almost be viewed as two separate terms.
The first two years were marked by Government activism, culminating in Mr. Clinton's disastrous effort to carry out the largest expansion of social welfare since the New Deal: his overhaul of the health care system. That grand failure swamped Mr. Clinton's other domestic achievements and led to the victory of Republicans intent on contracting the Government that Democrats considered their legacy. It also effectively ended the bid by his wife, Hillary, to carve out an overt policy role as First Lady.
But over the next two years, the ever-resilient Mr. Clinton rose again. After the midterm Congressional elections largely relieved him of the burden of delivering on his promises, Mr. Clinton benefited from merely standing in counterpoint to the Republicans, while co-opting some of their more appealing imagery.
With the help of Dick Morris, the adviser who brought Mr. Clinton back from defeat as Arkansas Governor more than a decade earlier, the President expropriated the language of values from the Republicans. At the same time, he blocked their most ambitious plans to reshape the Government.
Mr. Clinton has so successfully repositioned himself toward the center that the public perception of him, in the latest New York Times poll, has shifted from liberal to moderate. Yet as the election approaches, some voters still wonder which Bill Clinton would prevail in a second term. Most of those polled say they do not know enough about the President's stands to predict what he would do if re-elected.
The New York Times Poll was conducted by telephone from June 20 to 23 with 1,121 adults throughout the United States. In theory, in 19 of 20 cases, results based on such samples would differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction if all American adults had been surveyed.
Republicans like to say that, unhampered by the strictures of another re-election campaign, Mr. Clinton would re-emerge as the liberal he seemed in his first two years. The President's defenders say he is the same mainstream, centrist New Democrat the country elected four years ago.
Whichever direction he would take, Mr. Clinton these days seems more comfortable in office and more disciplined in his speech and public appearances. Only rarely does he slip back into the improvisational excesses and indecision of his first chaotic year. The former Vietnam War protester whose interest in foreign affairs had been only fleeting, his course unsteady, now revels in his role as Commander in Chief.
He is far more popular than he was at his nadir, with an approval rating of 53 percent -- among his best ever -- in the Times poll, taken June 20 to 23. And he is widely credited with having made real efforts to improve the economy, cut the deficit, preserve Medicare, enact universal health care, fight crime and protect the environment.
Still, reservations persist about Mr. Clinton's character. A majority of those polled say they believe that Mr. Clinton and his wife are hiding something in the controversies known as Whitewater.
Pondering the loss that led to his political revival, Mr. Clinton said the benefits of programs like his 1993 deficit-reduction plan and the anti-crime bill "were not manifest in the lives of ordinary people" by the midterm election. The failure of his health care initiative, he added, "overshadowed and enshrouded the campaign."

The Change President
Great Ambitions Quickly Deflated
Mr. Clinton acknowledged that he had overestimated the extent of change that a President elected without a majority could undertake. But he also conceded that he had gained from the comparison with the Republican-controlled Congress. "People for the first time had a clear sense of what the choices were between the Congressional Republican vision of how America should go into the 21st century and my vision," he said.
In fact, the Times poll indicates that a majority of Americans believes that Mr. Clinton has spent the past two years standing up to the Republicans rather than proposing new ideas. Yet 54 percent of those polled said that if the Republicans continued to control Congress, it would be better to re-elect Mr. Clinton, who promised in 1992 to end gridlock in Washington, than to elect a Republican.
As he faces the November test, Mr. Clinton now seems aware not just of the possibilities of his office but of its limits. With Democrats unlikely to win back control of both houses of Congress, he said, "One of the things I have learned in the last two years is that the President can do an awful lot of things by executive action, so that the sum total of the Presidency's impact on the American people at home is not just what happens in the Congress."
Bill Clinton's election ended a drought that had shut Democrats out of the White House for 12 years. The party's ambitions were enormous, and Mr. Clinton stoked the mood of expectation.
As a candidate, Mr. Clinton had made such a detailed list of promises that they filled a 200-page book, "Putting People First."
And he had not only campaigned on change, he personified it. He was the youngest man since John F. Kennedy to be elected President. He was the first member of the post-World War II generation to win the nation's highest office.
But he and Hillary Rodham Clinton carried into the White House the polarization that has always come with their generation: controversy over whether someone who had avoided service in Vietnam could be Commander in Chief and ambivalence about the changing role of women, caused by the Clintons' "buy one, get one free" refrain.
Looking back, many of Mr. Clinton's aides say that the President overreached.
"There was a misreading of how much change people wanted," said Harold M. Ickes, the deputy chief of staff, adding, "There was this rhetoric of change, change, change; this was the 'Change President.' We're going through volatile scary times and on the one hand people want change. On the other hand they are nervous and afraid of change."
That mixed message could have been read in the election results. While nearly two-thirds of the nation had voted against Mr. Bush in a three-way Presidential race, Mr. Clinton had garnered only 43 percent of the popular vote, a figure he now concedes may have doomed his health care plan.
"I think that I overestimated the extent to which a person elected with a minority of the votes in an environment that was complex, to say the least, could achieve a sweeping overhaul of the health care system," he said in the interview.
Nor had Mr. Clinton provided any coattails for his party. Democrats retained control of Congress, but they picked up no seats in the Senate and lost 10 seats in the House in 1992.
"What that would have suggested," said Michael R. Beschloss, a historian of the Presidency, "was that he was to some degree a provisional President, someone Americans elected but that they had doubts about."
Newt Gingrich, the Republican Speaker of the House, said flatly, "What happened in '93, I believe, is they thought they won the election when in fact the Republicans lost the election."
Twenty-four years earlier, another President, Richard M. Nixon, won a similar minority victory and hewed carefully to the political center for his first years in office. Mr. Clinton, though, embarked on an enormously ambitious, activist agenda, and signaled -- intentionally or not -- that he was more left-leaning than the centrist "New Democrat" he had run as.
Some of his early problems stemmed from the speed with which he backed away from some campaign stands, making him appear to have no core principles. Mr. Clinton, for example, did not even wait until he was in office to say that he would maintain the Bush Administration's policy of forcibly returning Haitian refugees, even though he had condemned it during the campaign.
Mr. Clinton also quickly became overexposed in the press, and his tendency to muse aloud on any issue sent conflicting messages. He nominated several flawed appointees for high-level jobs then dropped them as they became too controversial, adding to the impression of temporizing. No one reined in the President's propensity to stretch meetings into rambling policy seminars.
"If everything is important, then nothing's important," Dee Dee Myers, Mr. Clinton's former press secretary, said recently. "The White House lost sight of what the priorities were."
Far from everything Mr. Clinton did in his first two years in office could be characterized as liberal orthodoxy. He pleased Wall Street by pushing a package of spending cuts and tax increases to help reduce the Federal budget deficit. He bucked organized labor to push through the North American Free Trade Agreement, an ambitious accord initiated by his Republican predecessor, George Bush. And on crime, another issue historically dominated by Republicans, he put through a measure that banned 19 kinds of assault weapons and promised to put 100,000 new police officers on the streets.
Still, in fits and starts, the Administration communicated a leftward drift.
In his first week in office, Mr. Clinton sought to fulfill his pledge to remove the ban on homosexuals in the military, putting himself on the cultural left and at odds with the military. After a politically costly public battle, he eventually had to settle on a compromise that left the prohibition in place but said that members of the armed services should not be asked about their sexual orientation. This "don't ask, don't tell" measure satisfied no one and especially alienated more conservative voters in Mr. Clinton's native South.
On economic policy, Mr. Clinton quickly confronted the fact that the huge deficit he inherited and his desire to lower it precluded him from fulfilling campaign promises to offer a tax cut to the middle class and increase spending on education, job training, public works and health care.
He failed to persuade Congress to pass a $30 billion economic stimulus package to counter some of the budget cuts. With Republicans voting no as a block, he barely won approval for his deficit reduction plan. That plan included a tax increase that, while largely aimed at the wealthy, also hit many high-income Social Security beneficiaries and raised the gas tax by 4.3 cents a gallon.
On social policy, Mr. Clinton put aside his signature campaign pledge to "end welfare as we know it" and instead made the health care overhaul his domestic policy flagship, placing Mrs. Clinton in charge.
Even many Administration officials now admit that Mrs. Clinton had a tin ear for the politics of Washington, alienating crucial allies. The measure produced seemed the very symbol of too much government: a mammoth 240,000-word bill.
As time went on, more Americans feared that rather than make health care more accessible and affordable, the Government would limit their choices. "We lost because we didn't reassure people with insurance that they wouldn't have less than they have now," one Administration official said. Today, the number of Americans without health insurance has risen to 40 million, from 37 million when Mr. Clinton took office.
In this chaotic period, the ethical morass known as Whitewater bubbled up again. No longer just an inquiry focused solely on whether Mr. Clinton had given favorable treatment as Governor to his partners in the Whitewater development project, the affair spread into related investigations.
Several associates have since been convicted of fraud, and others, including the Clintons, are staggering under legal bills. The affair has also cost the Clintons some of the friends who came from Arkansas determined to set Washington on fire.
Webster L. Hubbell, a former law partner of Mrs. Clinton, resigned as No. 3 at the Justice Department and is in prison for bilking his law firm and former clients. Vincent W. Foster Jr., another former law partner, committed suicide, and Senate hearings looked into whether the White House had obstructed the investigation into his death.
The First Lady was subpoenaed by a grand jury earlier this year after her legal billing records, long sought by the independent counsel, showed up mysteriously in a White House family room. And Bruce R. Lindsey, a close adviser, was named an unindicted co-conspirator of bankers charged with illegally contributing to Mr. Clinton's 1990 campaign for Governor in exchange for patronage jobs.
Despite voters' doubts about whether he has been completely honest about Whitewater, Mr. Clinton said he would simply keep cooperating with the inquiries and have faith that Americans "will get it right."
"I just realized that the more time I spent on it and the more time I spent talking about it, the less time I would spend being President," he said, adding, "I wasn't going to let it rob the American people of my Presidency."
As he went into the Congressional elections, Mr. Clinton in fact had many achievements: a family-leave law, a waiting period for the purchase of handguns and initiatives like his national service program. As part of his deficit reduction plan, he had also put in place a major expansion of the earned-income tax credit, which provides tax relief for the working poor and which he viewed as a down payment on his pledge of a middle class tax cut. And he had won passage of the anti-crime legislation, which he now holds up on the stump as a major achievement.
But he had little to show the anxious middle class: not a health care overhaul, nor tax reductions nor a crackdown on welfare.
"The mandate he ran on was not necessarily the one he executed," said Stanley B. Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's pollster through 1994. "He ran as a cultural conservative and an economic populist. He was the first Democrat to talk about welfare reform and the death penalty." But, Mr. Greenberg added, "the cultural conservative side of Bill Clinton disappeared in the first two years."

Loss and Recovery
Republicans Meet The Comeback Kid
Three days after the Democratic rout of 1994, President Clinton groped to explain what went wrong. "Most everybody is for change in general and then against it in particular," he said ruefully in a speech at Georgetown University.
No longer quoting Jefferson, Mr. Clinton turned instead to Machiavelli. "It must be considered that there is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor dangerous to handle than to initiate a new order of things."
Yet looking back, one Clinton strategist calls the loss of Congress the key to the President's recovery. "The '94 election was a total blessing in disguise," he said. "If the President wins re-election" -- a virtual certainty, the official quickly added -- "it's in no small part due to our losing the Congress."
Mr. Clinton, his aides say, was shocked into disciplining himself. He began to delegate more. He learned to shorten and focus his speeches. He changed his schedule so he would have long periods to think.
While his White House staff remained largely in place, Mr. Clinton dismissed virtually his entire political team of consultants and pollsters. First surreptitiously, then openly, he turned to Dick Morris, the big-thinking consultant who had been the mastermind of his first political resurrection in Arkansas.
In many ways, the parallel with the 1980 loss is striking. As a very young first-term Governor, Mr. Clinton had pushed through an activist agenda far ahead of public opinion and found himself pushed out of office. Mr. Morris counseled him to moderate his course, and he won the governorship back.
Under the guidance of his long-ago counselor, who had drifted over the years to Republican candidates like Jesse Helms, Mr. Clinton began to move to recapture the center ground by co-opting much of the Republicans' spirit, if not their actual proposals.
After submitting a budget in early 1995 that envisioned $200 billion in deficits for years to come, Mr. Clinton, over the protests of most of his aides, embraced just a few months later the Republican call for a balanced budget. In months of negotiations, he agreed with the Republicans that the budget could be balanced over seven years, despite the cuts in domestic spending required.
Mr. Clinton staked out his own ground on social values, an arena the Democrats had long ceded to the Republicans. Early this year he started giving speeches on youth, schools and crime. Across the summer he has taken stands on school prayer, television violence and affirmative action, usually setting out a middle ground. And he has spoken ever more frequently of reshaping the welfare system.
What is instructive about many of Mr. Clinton's speeches is what they allow him not to do. By saying in a major address that the Constitution permitted personal religious expression in school, Mr. Clinton was able to defuse the push for a constitutional amendment on school prayer. By saying "mend it but don't end it," he had an answer to those opposing affirmative action.
By calling for a balanced budget, Mr. Clinton was able to turn the debate into a referendum on how to do it. That allowed him to stand firm against some of the most ambitious (Mr. Clinton would say extreme) aspects of the Republican budget plan: most notably, their attempts to restructure Medicaid and Medicare.
The President who had seemed so conciliatory, even malleable, to a Democratic Congress in the first two years that he never issued a veto, issued 15 in the past two years, forcing Republicans to rewrite some measures and stymieing others. Only once was he overridden.
At the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, Mr. Gingrich offers a harsh assessment of Mr. Clinton's tactics in seeking to recover from his 1994 loss. He accuses him of deceit in practicing "one of the most interesting and potentially dangerous experiments ever undertaken by an American President" in order to recover from the '94 loss.
"They decided, I think beginning sometime in late August, early September of last year, that they could create a conscious strategy of falsehood," Mr. Gingrich said, speaking of his White House adversaries, "and drive it hard enough that they could pretend to be us while avoiding being us and thereby keep their allies on the left through the avoidance while gaining the moderate voters in the middle by the pretense."
White House officials and Congressional Democrats contend that the Republicans themselves saved Mr. Clinton from the dangers of a split with his liberal allies. They say the Republicans misplayed their hand by proposing changes and savings in Medicare that frightened the public, by forcing Government shutdowns to try to compel passage of their budget plans and by walking out of budget talks this past January.
Mr. Clinton's aides had been deeply divided over whether and when to make a budget deal. Mr. Morris desperately wanted the agreement, to deprive the Republicans of the issue in the coming campaign. But advisers with stronger Democratic ties feared that a bad deal would cause a rupture with the party, leaving Mr. Clinton isolated. In the end, the President never had to make the choice.

The Foreign Arena
Novice Happily Learns The World's a Stage
As his ability to carry out domestic policy waned, Mr. Clinton overcame early stumbles in the foreign arena and reveled in showcasing his Presidency on the world stage.
The onetime Vietnam war protester had proved singularly inattentive to foreign policy initially and had seemed uncomfortable with his role as Commander in Chief. He lurched from crisis to crisis, from the slaughter of American soldiers in Somalia to the humiliating moment in Haiti when the transport ship Harlan County, sent to make way for the return of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, turned around when faced with armed thugs on the docks of Port-au-Prince.
But his successful use of diplomacy, coupled with the threat of force, in Haiti in the autumn of 1994 let him restore Mr. Aristide to power and bolstered his confidence.
Still, it was almost another year before Mr. Clinton took decisive action in Bosnia, pushed by the new French President Jacques Chirac and by the Bosnian Serb offensive against Muslims in the so-called safe havens, which made a mockery of the United Nations peacekeeping mission.
When Mr. Clinton finally launched a new course in the summer of 1995, with air strikes against Bosnian Serbs, it produced the peace agreement that he announced at the White House. He then won tentative Congressional support to send 20,000 American troops to Bosnia -- a risky election-year deployment.
Mr. Clinton's critics say he has yet to articulate a compelling foreign policy for the post-cold-war era and too often makes decisions based on domestic politics. But he has learned to project himself and his country on the world stage: visiting troops in Bosnia, making a triumphant tour of Northern Ireland, signing a security accord in Japan or arranging a Middle East summit meeting.
As he concluded his interview, he had some last words about foreign policy. "There's a lot that's happened," he said, "but the most important thing is we have to make foreign policy make sense to most ordinary Americans."
He went on, "I really try to think every day also about how all this looks to someone living in a medium-sized town in Ohio or California or Arkansas or anyplace else."
"If I have brought anything to the Presidency I think that is special," he added, "I think I do have a feel for how all these issues fit together and why. You know, fighting for the V-chip or regulating cigarette advertisements or trying to help communities adopt stiffer standards on truancy and curfews and all that, that's part of a security environment that's a piece of what we're trying to do with anti-terrorism and nonproliferation."

Second Term?
A Lasting Enthusiasm For Governing
As he heads into the final months before the election, Mr. Clinton again faces the kind of three-way race that is likely to keep the victor from claiming a majority mandate.
Yet he insists that this election will not have the ambiguities of 1992.
"It's different now," he said. "For one thing, I'm a known quantity, Senator Dole's a known quantity; our two approaches are clearly known. And if third- or fourth- or fifth-party candidates get enough votes in the aggregate to pull the victor below a majority, it will still become apparent whether the policies, the approaches we want to take command the support of the majority."
Yet 52 percent of those questioned in the Times poll said they did not know enough to say what Mr. Clinton might do if he is re-elected. Even though Democrats in Congress have produced a platform of modest steps much like Mr. Clinton's, some Democrats worry that the President is not laying the groundwork for a successful second term.
Mr. Clinton likes to say that Republicans think "we're always better off without government unless we need it for national defense and one or two other things that we can't get any other way." His own view, he says, is "that we have to reform the government." He adds: "But I don't believe any country ever became great by deciding to give educational opportunity to just a few, or deciding to pollute the environment to advance the economy, or deciding we don't have common responsibilities to make safe streets for our children."
Mr. Clinton's support for erasing the deficit gives him little room for new spending, however. And even the most hopeful Democrats believe that they are unlikely to win both the House and Senate.
Asked if Mr. Clinton could feel content governing under such circumstances, Mr. Ickes said, "He loves governing. He loves government. He loves policy. Will he be content? No question about it. Will he be fulfilled? That remains to be seen."
Most of Mr. Clinton's aides believe that if he is re-elected, he will still be dogged by legal issues from the Whitewater inquiries. But the President presses on. "When you get elected President, you get four years," he said, "and every day those four years come closer to being elapsed. Every minute the President needs to be focused on -- I think literally every day, I think about what was the vision I had for this country when I came here: Is it still valid? Is our strategy working? What do we still need to do?"
 
The Clinton Record
 
TODAY -- The overview.
MONDAY -- Foreign policy.
TUESDAY -- Welfare.
WEDNESDAY -- Health care.
THURSDAY -- The environment.
FRIDAY -- Criminal justice.
SATURDAY -- The economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: THE TURNING POINT -- The Republican takeover of Congress in 1994, which allowed Newt Gingrich to share the dais as House Speaker during the 1995 State of the Union Message, split Bill Clinton's Presidency into periods so distinct that they can be viewed as separate terms. Ambitious plans by newly empowered conservatives let Mr. Clinton claim the political middle ground and raise his popularity. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. 28)
 
 
Chronology: "Despite His Reversals, Clinton Keeps His Focus on Middle Ground"
 
--- 1993 ---
 
INAGUARATION
Jan. 20 -- William Jefferson Clinton is inaugurated the 42d president of the United States.

'NANNY GATE'
Jan. 22 -- Mr. Clinton withdraws Zoe Baird's nomination as Attorney General after learning she hired an illegal alien as domestic help. His second choice, Judge Kimba M. Wood, withdraws for similar reasons, and he appoints Janet Reno.

'DON'T ASK, DON'T TELL'
Jan. 29 -- Fulfilling a campaign promise, the President announces that homosexuals will no longer be discharged from the military. A storm of protest leads Mr. Clinton to announce a new policy, known as 'don't ask, don't tell,' in July.

WACO
April 19 -- After a 51-day standoff that began with an abortive raid on Branch Davidians in Waco, Tex., on Feb. 28, Federal agents assault their compound, starting a fire that kills 80.

BOSNIA
May 7 -- Secretary of State Warren Cristopher returns empty-handed after a trip to persuade the European allies to go along with President Clinton's proposal to lift the arms embargo to help the Bosnian Muslims and use limited NATO airstrikes against the Serbs.

'TRAVELGATE'
May 19 -- The White House fires the seven-person staff of the travel office, alleging financial mismanagement, and places a campaign aide in charge.
 
SUICIDE
July 20 -- Vincent Foster Jr., Mr. Clinton's deputy legal counsel and Hillary Rodham Clinton's former law partner in Little Rock, is found dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. His death becomes a subject of the Whitewater investigations.

DEFICIT REDUCTION
Aug. 5-6 -- Without the support of a single Republican, Congress passes Mr. Clinton's $500-billion deficit reduction plan, which cuts spending and raises income taxes on the wealthy.
 
MIDEAST PEACE
Sept. 13 -- Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization sign a peace accord on the White House lawn.

HEALTH CARE REFORM
Sept. 22 -- After months of closed-door meetings between Hillary Rodham Clinton and hundreds of consultants, the President unveils a plan for universal health care -- a centerpiece of his domestic agenda.

SOMALIA
Oct. 3 -- Additional troops are sent to Somalia after 18 Americans die in a firefight between warlords.

HAITI REBUFF
Oct. 12 -- In a symbol of American military impotence, Mr. Clinton withdraws the USS Harlan County after Army-backed demonstrators in Haiti prevent the landing of 200 non-combat troops hoping to pave the way for the return of the Rev. Aristide.
 
NAFTA
Nov. 17 & 20 -- Congress passes legislation to implement the North American Free Trade Agreement.

--- 1994 ---
 
WHITEWATER
Jan. 20 -- Independent counsel is named to investigate the personal and political finances of the Clintons in the 1980s, including their role in the Whitewater Development Corporation.

SHAKE-UP
June 27 -- As part of an extensive White House shakeup, Mr. Clinton removes Thomas F. McLarty, his friend from childhood, as chief of staff, and replaces him with Leon E. Panetta, the budget director and former congressman.

HEALTH REFORM DEAD
Aug. 26 -- The White House and Congressional leaders all but concede that health care reform is dead for the year.

CRIME BILL
Sept. 13 -- Mr. Clinton signs a $30.2 billion anticrime package providing for 100,000 new police officers, expanding the death penalty and banning the sale of certain assault weapons.
 
TROOPS IN HAITI
Sept. 19 -- United States troops enter Haiti peacefully to enforce the return of the exiled President Aristide.

JAPAN
Oct. 1 -- Japan and the United States reach agreements designed to open domestic Japanese markets to foreign competition, averting the imposition of trade sanctions against Japan.

NORTH KOREA
Oct. 21 -- United States and North Korea sign agreement requiring that Pongyang dismantle its nuclear development program.

G.O.P. SWEEP
Nov. 8 -- In midterm Congressional elections, Republicans take control of the House and Senate for the first time in 40 years.

GATT
Dec. 8 -- Mr. Clinton signs a sweeping global tariff-cutting trade pact approved by Congress.

--- 1995 ---
 
PESO RESCUE
Jan. 31 -- Mr. Clinton sidesteps Congress and uses his own emergency authority to lend up to $20 billion to Mexico to keep it from defaulting on Government-issued bonds.

PLAYING DEFENSE
April 18 -- In his first prime-time news conference in more than eight months, Mr. Clinton declares he is not irrelevant in the face of the new Republican majority in Congress.

BUDGET BATTLE, PART 1
June 29 -- Congress passes a compromise seven-year budget plan designed to cut spending by nearly $900 billion, cut taxes by $245 billion and hold down increases in Medicare and other social programs.

SAFE HAVENS FALL
Aug. 11 -- President Clinton begins a new peace initiative in Bosnia, after Serbs overtake Muslim 'safe havens' and continue to shell Sarajevo.

BUDGET BATTLE, PART 2
Oct. 19 -- Repudiating his own earlier budget, Mr. Clinton says that the Republican plan to wipe out the deficit by 2002 is an attainable goal but should scale back proposed cuts in education, health and environment programs.

GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN, PART 1
Nov. 14 -- The Federal Government suspends non-essential services in a shutdown that lasts six days.

BOSNIAN PEACE ACCORD
Nov. 21 -- The presidents of three rival Balkan states initial an agreement that ends nearly four years of war in Bosnia.

WELFARE VETO
Dec. 6 -- Mr. Clinton vetoes the Republicans' balanced-budget bill, which contains a sweeping overhaul of the welfare system. A month later, he vetoes a second welfare bill.
 
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN, PART 2
Dec. 16 -- After weeks of fruitless negotiations on a balanced budget, the Government shuts down for the second time.
 
--- 1996 ---
 
BUDGET STANDOFF
Jan. 24 -- Congressional Republicans abandon the effort to get a seven-year balanced budget, with the two sides split over core differences on health and welfare programs.
 
TAIWAN
March 10 -- To warn China against harassing Taiwan, the United States sends two aircraft carriers to the area.
 
DOLE RESIGNS
June 11 -- Following a Republican primary season in which Bob Dole emerges on top after unexpected challenges, the majority leader resigns from the Senate to campaign full time against Mr. Clinton.
 
CHINA TRADE
June 18 -- Under threat of sanctions, China begins enforcing the accord on intellectual property rights for foreign software, music and videos that it signed more than a year earlier.
 
MODEST PROPOSALS
Spring/Summer -- President Clinton spends much of his time making a series of speeches focusing on modest and low-cost solutions to social problems, such as curfews for teen-agers, uniforms in schools, fighting truancy, violence on television and a national registry for sex offenders. (pgs. 28 & 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology; Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); HAITI (94%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOMALIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (74%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOW WHAT SOFTWARE (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); HAITI (94%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOMALIA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (74%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); TAX LAW (68%); TUITION FEES (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MORRIS, DICK BILL CLINTON (95%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



609 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-11
 
ARAB ANGER IN HEBRON
Arab resentment remains high at the unmet promise that has left Hebron in Israeli hands after most of it was to have been turned over to the Palestinians. 3
 
SPANISH PREMIER'S CHALLENGES
Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain has quickly discovered that he faces many of the same problems that his predecessor did, and the economy is the biggest. 4
 
PRAGMATIC PULLBACK FROM SERBIA
In Kosovo, a mainly Albanian Muslim region of the former Yugoslavia where minority Serbs were promised a glorious future, the Balkan conflict appears to be playing out a subdued denouement. 10
 
RIOTS IN INDONESIA
In a contentious pre-election period, Indonesia's most serious rioting in decades erupted in Jakarta, with protesters hurling rocks and setting fire to buses, cars and buildings. 8
 
A Turkish hunger strike shows deeper strains in society. 3
 
Burundi's new President promised ethnic reconciliation. 6
 
China is clamping down on Tibetan protesters. 11
 
Canadians angry over sanctions turned to history for revenge. 6
 
National 12-24
 
BOMBING IN OLYMPIC CROWD
A pipe bomb ripped through a festive Olympic crowd in downtown Atlanta early yesterday, killing one person, casting a pall over the Games and striking at Americans' heightened sense of vulnerability and fear since the crash of a TWA jetliner 10 days ago. 1
 
FESTIVE SPIRIT, THEN CHAOS
Atlanta's downtown was alive in a way it had never been, before the Olympics. The streets were busy and vibrant even at 1 A.M. Then, in an instant, it all changed. 1
 
PRESIDENT CALLS BOMBING EVIL
Calling the bombing in Atlanta "an evil act of terror" and contrasting its cowardice to the courage of Olympic athletes, President Clinton said the games should continue as a signal that the nation and the world would not bow to terrorism. 21
 
CLINTON ASSESSES HIS PRESIDENCY
His hands in restless motion, Bill Clinton sat in the Oval Office earlier this month assessing the Presidency he calls "this great adventure." At times pensive, other times fiery, he confidently made his case for a second term. 1
 
DOLE'S RADIO ADDRESS
Bob Dole began his regular weekly radio address by asking for a moment of silent prayer for the victims of the bombing in Atlanta, which he called a "cowardly act." 14
 
MARRIAGE PLAN CAUSES UPROAR
The surprising tale of how the simple desire of two men from Hawaii to wed turned into a national election-year obsession. 12
 
HOUSING PROJECT SAFETY
An anticrime "intervention program" in Puerto Rico in which the police and the National Guard move into public housing projects has gotten results and drawn attention -- and criticism -- from cities across the country. 18
 
Metropolitan 25-27
 
BROAD INQUIRY PURSUED IN CRASH
While Federal officials have yet to conclude that sabotage destroyed T.W.A. Flight 800, an elaborate criminal investigation has been under way from the first moments after the 747 smashed into the sea. Government agents have interviewed close to 1,500 people. 1
 
LARGE SECTION OF JET RECOVERED Salvage workers recovered the first large piece of Flight 800 yesterday, hoping it would offer clues to the cause of the crash. 19A
 
AGENT WORKS IN WIFE'S MEMORY As his wife, a flight attendant on Flight 800, was buried in Pennsylvania, Charles Christopher made her a promise: he would find out who did this to her. He may have a chance to, as an F.B.I. agent who is joining in the investigation. 19A
 
FIVE LIVES BOUND BY TRAGEDY Five people with little in common have been drawn together by the deaths of 230 people in the crash. They have endured days that have tested not only their skills but also their emotional and physical stamina, their ability to keep their eyes open and speak coherently to the public after seemingly endless hours of toil. 19B
 
A BEATING VICTIM'S RECOVERY In the nearly eight weeks since she was rushed to a hospital with her skull in pieces, the woman who suffered a vicious beating in Central Park has made what her rehabilitation doctors call remarkable improvements. 25
 
Fresh Air Fund 26
 
Obituaries 32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SPAIN (92%); CANADA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); TIBET (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CHINA (57%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SPAIN (92%); CANADA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); KOSOVO (79%); TIBET (79%); BURUNDI (79%); ALBANIA (79%); CHINA (57%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (57%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); OLYMPICS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); PUBLIC HOUSING (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



610 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 32; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: The Path of Capitalism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Beneficial Capitalism, R.I.P." (Viewpoint, June 16) Alexei Bayer lamented that the capitalist ideology was dead in the United States and presented his version of the rise and fall of the concept. 
 In his view, it arose in this country in response to "the Soviet threat in the postwar decades," and because this country "had to demonstrate that capitalism provides a good life for workers." Further, he said, the capitalist ideology reached its apogee with President Lyndon B. Johnson's declaration of the war on poverty, and began to stagnate after the fall of Communism in the Soviet Union.
Capitalism, however, is a system based on private property rights and free-market principles. It is marked by a lack of government intervention in the economy.
So how can the article praise a wide distribution of the economic pie as a high point of our capitalist ideology? Apparently, the writer's term refers to our mixed economy, which combines elements of socialism and capitalism, and it is the social element that he sees as disappearing.
 
LANA CONOLLEY
Manhattan, June 17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BYR (LSE) (73%); BRB (BRU) (73%); BRA (AMS) (73%); BR (APR) (73%); BAY (NYSE) (73%); BAY (FRA) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE AND OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL AND RESIN MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITALISM LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); 

PERSON: CONOLLEY, LANA ALEXEI BAYER (67%); LYNDON B JOHNSON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



611 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 32; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: The Path of Capitalism

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Beneficial Capitalism, R.I.P." sustained a balanced tone in delineating serious and controversial subject matter. 
 Global capitalism, in my opinion, has gone over the edge in its self-indulgent exploitation of its increasingly unopposed power to do as it pleases, now that the foil of Communism has been vanquished.
The article distinguished between capitalism and free-market thinking, while it would seem that there are more parallels than differences. Nevertheless, it appears that Americans once incorporated certain character traits into their social thinking -- a sense of responsibility toward humanity, if you will -- that have been consciously excised from at least the corporate psyche today.
Thankfully, in a democracy, for all its limitations, the propensity for excess by a dominant group will arouse opposition in another group, which at least has the theoretical ability to throw out the entrenched. This system, of course, is subject to manipulation, but it is the best we can come up with in an imperfect world.
 
JOHN MANNIX
Floral Park, L.I., June 17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); 

PERSON: MANNIX, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



612 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2395 words

HEADLINE: From Bears to Bulls and Back Again

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
WHEN David Shulman, the chief equity strategist for Salomon Brothers, announced last December that he had finally turned bullish on the stock market, it seemed as if the last bear on Wall Street had gone into hibernation. Suddenly, though, the bears are foraging everywhere.
Elaine Garzarelli, the strategist known as a market guru for having predicted the October 1987 crash, abruptly metamorphosed from rip-snorting bull to bear last week, sending stocks into a temporary tailspin and generating plenty of publicity. It was a stunning about-face for someone who had predicted just days before, in this newspaper, that the Dow Jones industrial average would hit 6,400. 
 She was not the first to predict a stock slump, though. Charles I. Clough Jr. of Merrill Lynch and Byron R. Wien of Morgan Stanley began warning investors about a possible market decline several months ago. Lesser-known names from lesser-known firms and writers of market newsletters have been quick to point out after the recent stock dip that they, too, saw it coming and expect more of the same. Even Mr. Shulman is sounding like a repentant bull, recently predicting a 10 percent correction before the stock market rallies.
Certainly, the majority of market seers at major brokerage firms -- Goldman, Sachs; Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette; Lehman Brothers; CS First Boston -- remain safely bullish. They make their money, after all, selling stocks to customers, not sending investors into cash.
But with no single voice reverberating like that of Henry Kaufman, who made a series of prescient interest-rate forecasts more than a decade ago, there is a rising cacophony of conflicting opinions.
Deciding how much faith to place in various market mavens is no simple matter. A good way to start is by examining how long they have held their positions, what school of thought they adhere to and what outside forces might be driving them.
Many prognosticators -- whether they rely on interest-rate predictions, market psychology or charts of stocks or the heavens -- struggle to make themselves heard above today's din. The most shrill voices often belong to people not backed by a major institution. Some attract attention by staking out extreme positions and by then being the quickest and the loudest to say they were right. And the prospect of a bear market is particularly enticing to them, because it offers a once-in-a-market-cycle opportunity to seal their fortune as market gurus.
"Every time the market goes down, some of the strategists are going to turn bearish, to enhance their name and to help people out," said Richard Strong, chairman of the Strong Funds in Milwaukee.
A well-timed market call could mean huge rewards as a highly paid investment strategist, a sought-after portfolio manager or a popular newsletter writer.
"If the market goes down, for the next three years you'll be as rich as Crassus," said Eugene Lerner, a former finance professor who now heads Disciplined Investment Advisors in Evanston, Ill. "The next time around, everybody will listen to you."
Perhaps no one knows the rewards of being anointed as a market guru better than Ms. Garzarelli does. She made her reputation by appearing on television and predicting a market drop a week before the 1987 crash. Several months earlier, she had told investors to put all their financial assets in cash only to reverse herself two weeks later in an interview in Financial World magazine, in which she proclaimed that the market would "probably head higher for the next several months."
Despite her penchant for dramatic turnabouts, no star shone brighter after the '87 crash. Ms. Garzarelli attracted $650 million into her own mutual fund and an annual salary estimated at more than $1 million from Lehman Brothers as the top technical analyst.
But she was slow to send investors back into stocks, causing them to miss out on sharp gains immediately after the crash. After turning in a mediocre performance as a portfolio manager, Ms. Garzarelli lost her job at Lehman Brothers in late 1994 in what was described as a cost-cutting move by the firm. She quickly resurrected herself as a sought-after prognosticator while running her own research and money management firm and writing a newsletter.
As a quantitative analyst, Ms. Garzarelli uses a combination of economic indicators -- earnings, industrial production, interest rates, cash-flow levels and the like -- to predict the direction of the market. After expressing unbridled optimism based on her indicators a week ago, she roiled the market on Tuesday by telling institutional clients that the market could decline by 15 to 25 percent from its recent highs.
News of her opinion was broadcast on CNBC and carried by several news services. The Dow industrial average, which was in the process of gaining 40 points, reversed course to lose 44 points for the session. Since then, though, it has gained more than 100 points.
"I think she is going to be the new Joe Granville," Mr. Lerner said, referring to one newsletter writer who has been persistently wrong in predicting a crash in the stock market.
With seemingly little new information about interest rates or inflation, which Ms. Garzarelli had described as the keys to her bullish forecast, her new opinion left some market observers shaking their heads. "What people don't understand is Elaine's model is not strictly scientific," said Alfred Goldman, the chief investment strategist for A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. He speculated that her change of heart was tied to her belief that corporate earnings would soon become disappointing.
Ms. Garzarelli, who left a telephone message with a brief explanation last week, said her sudden shift was simply a result of updating her model, a task she performs every two weeks. By using new numbers on corporate cash flows, she said, her indicators turned from neutral to bearish.
MANY of the bears now raising their heads are technical analysts who study charts and predict trends in the market by looking at recent patterns of stock movements and volumes. While that style of investing has been out of favor for several years, technicians are becoming more visible after the latest turmoil in the market.
"We go through cycles," explained Stan Weinstein, the editor and publisher of The Professional Tape Reader, a newsletter in Hollywood, Fla. "When things start to turn negative, that's when technicians become prominent."
In part, that is because technical analysts study what has just occurred -- the number of stocks that hit new highs, for example, or the number of stocks that advanced and the number that declined. When Mr. Weinstein told his several thousand subscribers on June 22 that the market in over-the-counter stocks had probably reached "the top of this speculative cycle," the Nasdaq composite index of small stocks had just dropped 6 percent from its June high.
Mr. Weinstein is among the most vocal bears, though his track record leaves something to be desired. According to Hulbert Financial Digest, which tracks newsletters, his market-timing services have significantly underperformed the broad market. Mr. Weinstein said Hulbert's methodology was unfair, but he declined to provide specific information.
In a statement to subscribers a week ago, Mr. Weinstein expanded his forecast beyond the small stocks to include the broad market. The bear market has already begun and "is likely to last well into 1997," he said, with "the potential to go significantly lower."
Another loud pessimist is Doug Fabian, the president of Fabian Investment Resources in Huntington Beach, Calif. In telephone calls to reporters and a statement to the press, he recently trumpeted his sell signal issued after the market closed on July 15, the day the Dow lost 161 points. Mr. Fabian uses a system developed by his father to time the market by issuing buy or sell signals based on the direction of the moving average of the Dow and a composite of mutual funds. "We are trend followers," he said.
"I am not a guru with a crystal ball," he added. "It's technical analysis, and it works."
The system is the top-ranked timing service followed by Hulbert and has returned an annual average of 15.6 percent over the last 16 years through June 30, beating the broad market by a hair and showing substantially less volatility.
Mr. Fabian estimates that his 40,000 subscribers pulled as much as $1 billion from stock funds over three days beginning on July 15. Mutual fund redemptions were unusually heavy during that time, but there is no way to prove or disprove whether his contention is correct.
Two of the five funds highlighted in Mr. Fabian's newsletter had split reactions. The Founders Growth fund attributed $100 million in transfers to Mr. Fabian's call, but a spokeswoman for the Berger 100 fund described it as "a nonevent."
Not that Mr. Fabian is willing to stake his credibility entirely on a coming bear market.
"The reason we haven't declared the bull market is dead is if the market breaks out on the upside," he said. In other words, if the market goes up, he could be bullish.
AND not all technicians are bearish, of course. A year ago, when being bullish was certainly nothing out of the ordinary, Ralph Acampora, the director of technical analysis for Prudential Securities, turned himself into a super bull, predicting that the Dow would climb to 7,000 in a few years. He reiterated his forecast in March, calling for the Dow to reach 6,000 by the end of this year.
Some strategists at major brokerage firms who employ fundamental analysis, which emphasizes corporate earnings and interest rates, have also turned bearish in the last several months. Their shift is particularly noteworthy because some of these firms have large retail bases of customers and their brokers make their livings selling stocks to clients.
These strategists can be reluctant to sound anything less than ebullient about the market. And they are sure to pause for more than a minute before issuing a bearish statement if they have been outspokenly bullish. "If Ralph Acampora shifted from the Dow at 7,000 to slightly neutral, his phone would melt in its cradle," said Robert Stovall, the president of Stovall/21st Advisors, referring to how anxious customers and brokers might react to the news.
Despite internal conflicts, "mostly the pressure is to be right," Mr. Shulman of Salomon said. He conceded, though, that there was a "natural bias" to be bullish at brokerage firms because investors make more money by buying stocks than by sitting on the sidelines. Mr. Shulman described the blunt forecast by Mr. Wien, the Morgan Stanley strategist, who in April predicted a 1,000-point decline in the Dow, as "a gutsy call."
Along with Mr. Wien, Wall Street's most recent bull-turned-bear is Mr. Clough, who recommended that investors reduce their stock allocations in February despite any grief he might take from Merrill Lynch's legions of brokers.
As members of the fundamentalist camp, both men look at many of the same indicators on the overall state of the economy. Yet they reached their latest stances from very different vantage points. Mr. Wien says he thinks that a strengthening economy will cause interest rates to rise and that a market decline will follow. Mr. Clough says he thinks that a faltering economy may lead to a recession and to weaker corporate profits and may cause -- you guessed it -- a market decline.
Mr. Wien and Mr. Clough are definitely not market timers, those all-or-nothing souls who recommend that investors switch from all stocks to all cash and back again as frequently as their crystal balls dictate. Their message is more moderate. Mr. Clough, for example, is advising investors to limit the portion of their portfolios in stocks to 40 percent.
Exactly what constitutes a bear is a matter of debate. Few of the strategists like the label, and definitions of a bear market, typically said to be a downturn of 20 percent or more, vary. Mr. Clough, for one, prefers to be known as bullish on bonds rather than bearish on stocks.
Scarce as they were for a while, some of the bears never really died. The market turbulence just flushed them out.
These seemingly perennial bears, strategists whose advice led investors to miss out on the tremendous gains in the stock market over the last few years, are in great demand by news organizations whenever the market turns south. Though they bristle at their label, the group includes Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist for Oppenheimer & Company, who has been talking of a stock decline for much of the last two and a half years; Steven Leuthold, who said he was a bull in the 80's but has been bearish for the last two years, and Jim Rogers, the charming, bow-tied private investor who has disliked the domestic stock market for many years.
"I don't like the term," Mr. Metz said when asked whether he was a bear. But he said he thought cash would outperform stocks until sometime in 1997. People think of him as a perennial bear, he said, because "I'm the only one who really speaks out."
ANOTHER bear is Mr. Granville, the newsletter writer who last week said that his much-heralded crash was just around the corner. But even he objected to being called a perennial bear, saying he had only been bearish since 1992.
Jeremy J. Siegel, a finance professor at the Wharton School, dismisses many of the long-term bears. "If you make enough predictions, long enough, you'll be right," he said. While some strategists, he said, might have a hot streak for a while, just as mutual fund managers do, knowing when that streak will cool off is extraordinarily difficult.
Mr. Goldman of A. G. Edwards concurred, adding that he included himself in that admonition. "No one should take any one guru that seriously," he said. "My basic approach to the market is that none of us mortals can predict the future. The best I can do is to understand the trends in place in terms of the economy and corporate earnings."
So what is an investor to make of those who are growling the loudest now? "While the bears may be right," Mr. Shulman said, "it's too early to declare a victory." And if the bears are wrong, most will probably go about their business, simply having missed out on an opportunity to be the new guru of the 90's.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 28 about stock market prognosticators misspelled the name of Croesus, the king of ancient Lydia, in a quotation from Eugene Lerner, the president of Disciplined Investment Advisors in Evanston, Ill. Discussing people who made bearish predictions, Mr. Lerner said, "If the market goes down, for the next three years you'll be as rich as Croesus."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Some of the Breeds" lists methodologies and key issues of four analysts. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (72%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); WISCONSIN, USA (72%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FORECASTS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BONDS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); WRITERS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: GARZARELLI, ELAINE; WEINSTEIN, STAN; FABIAN, DOUG; CLOUGH, CHARLES I JR; ABELSON, REED ELAINE MARIE GARZARELLI (73%); HENRY KAUFMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1996



613 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1886 words

HEADLINE: What's Doing in San Diego

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD; JAMES STERNGOLD is a business reporter for The Times based in Los Angeles.

 BODY:
This is going to be a weighty summer for San Diego, which will play host to the Republican convention from Aug. 12 to 15. But for all the seriousness that will surround the convention, a visitor might get a better sense of what San Diego is really all about, and why it can be such a delightful place to visit, by attending another seminal summer event -- the Annual World Body Surfing Championships. This hotly fought contest will be held from Aug. 16 to 18 off the Oceanside Pier.
What this event underscores is the fact that San Diego -- though overshadowed in the past by Los Angeles and such popular attractions to the north as Disneyland -- is beautifully situated, and that the city has grown economically, politically and socially in large measure because of the draw of its wonderful coastline and superb weather. It is no accident that several of top golf-club companies have headquarters here. The area is also home to some of the country's largest Navy and Marine bases and is a thriving center for technology companies. 
 But for a visitor, this is definitely an area for shorts, T-shirts, flip-flops and trendy sunglasses. And a sweatshirt -- the warm, dry days generally give way to cool evenings. Often, outsiders do not appreciate another draw: the surprising diversity of the landscape. There are vineyards, mountains (the famous Palomar Observatory is in San Diego County) and desert, with many parks making a variety of terrain accessible.

 
Events
 The biggest event of the summer, of course, is the Republican National Convention. It is likely to tie the city in knots, with 30,000 visitors expected, and casual visitors are encouraged to avoid the city that week. Many hotels have been booked for months. The delegates and politicians will gather in the handsome San Diego Convention Center, on the waterfront downtown.
Taking advantage of the spotlight the convention will cast on the city, San Diego and the surrounding communities have planned a range of other events. There are actually two body-surfing competitions. The first, the 18th annual body surfing contest at Carlsbad State Beach at Ponto, goes from Aug. 9 to 11. More than 300 surfers from around the state are expected. Competition begins at 7 A.M. and runs a little past noon. Entry is free. Call (619) 434-2989. The 20th annual World Body Surfing Competition, Aug. 16 to 18, is at Oceanside Pier, at the north end of the county. As many as 400 surfers from around the world are expected. Heats begin at 7 A.M. and run until about 1 P.M. Call (619) 966-4535.
The city's long maritime tradition is saluted at the Maritime Museum, 1492 North Harbor Drive, (619) 234-9153, which will have special sailings of its centerpiece, an 1863 bark called the Star of India, the oldest iron-hulled sailing ship still afloat, on Aug. 10, 11 and 18. Although no visitors will be permitted on board while it is sailing, the ship should be quite a sight in the city's harbor. It will depart from the Embarcadero in downtown, a good viewing point. The museum also displays the Berkeley, a ferry that used to run between San Francisco and Oakland, and the Medea, an old Scottish steam yacht in beautiful condition. Through the end of September, the museum will feature an exhibition on the Monitor, the Civil War ironclad ship. Admission is $5. Open daily 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. in summer; closes at 8 the rest of the year.
The Miramar Air Show take place Aug. 17 and 18. at, 9:30 A.M. to 4 P.M., plus 6 to 10 P.M. on Aug 17. It will include exhibits on the ground at the Miramar Naval Air Station, off I-15 north of San Diego, as well as performances by the Blue Angels, wing walking, parachutists, simulated air combat and more. Admission is free for those who bring a blanket or beach chair. Grandstand seats are $6 ($3 for those aged 3 to 10), with special seating, including food and drink as high as $50 ($30 for children). Call (619) 537-6289.
One of the more pleasant seaside spots in the county is the town of La Jolla, just north of San Diego. From Aug. 16 to 25 the town will hold its Summerfest, a series of chamber music concerts in Sherwood Auditorium at the Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego, at 700 Prospect Street. Tickets are $20 to $32.50. Call (619) 459-3728.
The La Jolla Playhouse (619) 550-1010, is featuring "The Green Bird," a comedy by Carlo Gozzi, to Aug. 25. It opened in New York earlier this year, is directed by Julie Taymor and has music by Elliot Goldenthal. Tickets are $19 to $36.
 
Sightseeing
 San Diego is justifiably proud of its parks and other outdoor attractions, which get crowded at peak times, particularly weekends.
The 1,200-acre Balboa Park, in the heart of San Diego, contains most of the city's museums and the justifiably renowned San Diego Zoo. Thezoo, (619) 234-3153, which is celebrating its 80th anniversary, has the usual array of bears, elephants, gorillas, tigers and birds but its 100 acres of wooded, hilly grounds interspersed with well-tended gardens give it a special beauty. Another thing that sets it apart is the care with which the various animal habitats have been designed. Entry 9 A.M. to 9 P.M. until Labor Day. After that it closes at 6 P.M., with free admission from 4 to 6 P.M. Admission is $15, $6 ages 3 to 11.
The zoo also operates the San Diego Wild Animal Park, (619) 234-6541, 30 miles north of downtown in Escondido. The animals roam freely over the 2,150-acre park, while visitors travel on monorails and observe from a distance. Entry 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. Monday to Wednesday, 9 A.M. to 8 P.M. other days. Admission is $18.95, $11.95 aged 3 to 11.
A prime spot to begin any exploration of the Balboa Park museums is the Spreckels Organ Pavilion, (619) 226-0819, an outdoor theater where a booming pipe organ is played in free concerts Sunday at 2 P.M. all year, plus Monday evening in the summer.
Within walking distance of the organ pavilion are the Museum of Man (619) 239-2001, showing an exhibition of Pueblo, Navajo and Hispanic textiles to Feb. 23; the Museum of Art, (619) 232-7931; the Aerospace Historical Center, (619) 234-8291, which features a reproduction of the "Spirit of St. Louis," which was built nearby, and the child-friendly Reuben H. Fleet Space Theater and Science Center, (619) 238-1233, with hands-on exhibits and an Imax theater.
The Palomar Observatory, (619) 742-2119, with its 200-inch reflecting telescope, is open to the public. It is in rugged hills in the eastern part of San Diego County, less than two hours from downtown. Visitors cannot look through the telescope, but they can see it and view photos taken through it. Admission is free. Enter off Route 76. Open 9 A.M. to 4 P.M.
About seven miles north of the observatory is is Palomar Mountain State Park, (619) 742-3462, which charges $5 a car, and has large picnic grounds, hiking trails and a small stocked fishing pond.
The campus of the University of California at San Diego is a rolling stretch of land near the ocean in La Jolla and is handsomely landscaped, with plenty of outdoor art and fine architecture. There are guided walking tours on the second, fourth and fifth Sundays of each month. Information is available at the booths at the entry gate near the intersection of Gilman Drive and La Jolla Village Drive, (619) 534-4414.
One of the great pleasures of a visit is the beaches -- particularly the stretch of ocean from Mission Bay, north of downtown, heading north through La Jolla to Del Mar and Cardiff-by-the-Sea. A particularly picturesque beach is the Torrey Pines Beach in the Torrey Pines State Reserve, (619) 755-2063, just north of La Jolla. The 1,700-acre park includes dramatic cliffs and, of course, gnarled Torrey pines. The beach entrance is between Callan and North Torrey Pines Park Road. Parking is $4 a car and the beach is open 8 A.M. to sunset.
 
Where to Stay
 The modern, well-situated Wyndham Emerald Plaza, 400 West Broadway, (800) 626-3988, fax (619) 239-3274, with 436 rooms, has a special discount rate of $109 a night (the standard rate is $238), including breakfast, for visitors with a coupon from a booklet the city is making available until the end of the year; call (619) 236-1212 for the coupons, which also cover restaurants and tourist attractions.
Farther north are several hotels on particularly nice stretches of coast. In La Jolla, the Sea Lodge, 8110 Camino del Oro, (800) 237-5211, fax (619) 456-9346, with 128 rooms, is a Soanish-style hotel in a quiet spot, and rates for a double room run from $165 to $255.
The homey Del Mar Inn, 720 Camino Del Mar, (800) 451-4515, fax (619) 792-8196, in the seaside village of Del Mar, has 80 rooms with doubles at $130 a night.
Budget: At the Ramada Inn Salona Beach, 8717 South Highway 101, (800) 232-2407, fax (619) 792-2370, rates are reasonable at a good location. Double rooms start at $110.
Luxury: The best-known lodging in the area is the Hotel del Coronado, 1500 Orange Avenue, Coronado, (800) 468-3533, fax (619) 522-8238, a wonderful, gigantic clapboard structure overlooking Coronado Beach. It is white with a red shingle roof, and Old Glory flutters atop its big dome. The hotel, built in 1888, has a storied past (the movie "Some Like it Hot" was filmed there in 1958). There are 399 rooms in the old building and 293 more in a more recently built section. Double rooms run from $179 to $399 a night.
The Sheraton Grande Torrey Pines, 10950 North Torrey Pines Road, (619) 558-1500, fax (619) 597-6962, near the Torrey Pines State Reserve and in front of a well-regarded public golf course, has doubles with modern decor from $220 a night, several restaurants, a pool and a health club.
 
Where to Eat
 Two lively Italian restaurants in the rejuvenated Gaslamp Quarter downtown are Fio's, 801 Fifth Avenue, (619) 234-3467, which attracts a fashionable crowd and where lunches run from about $7 to $15 a person and dinners from $10 to $25, and the smaller Panevino, 722 Fifth Avenue, (619) 595-7959, where lunches run are $9 to $15 and dinners $12 to $30 per person.
For Mexican food, one of the more relaxed restaurants is up the coast in Cardiff-by-the-Sea, the North County Taco Auctioneers, 1951 San Elijo Avenue; (619) 942-8226. It is a modest place with outdoor tables and is known for its taco tray (a three-foot-long board with dishes of ingredients and freshly made tortillas for making your own, $13.95 for two people at lunch, $1 more at dinner). Lunch runs from $6 to $10 and dinners from $8 to $15.
For brunch overlooking the ocean, try the Atoll restaurant at the Catamaran resort, 3999 Mission Boulevard in Mission Beach; (619) 488-1081. The casual restaurant is popular with families. The buffet emphasizes seafood. Breakfast and lunch run from $7 to $20 a person.
Another well-known seaside restaurant is Qwiig's Bar and Grill, at 5083 Santa Monica Avenue in Ocean Beach; (619) 222-1101. Most tables command a fine view. Meals run from $11 to as much as $40 a person at lunch and dinner.
A favorite hangout in La Jolla is the homey Harry's Coffee Shop, 7545 Girard Avenue; (619) 454-7381. Breakfast is served all day. Aside from standard coffee shop fare, other offerings include Mexican dishes and such specials as salmon Florentine. Closes at 2:30 P.M. Meals are $3 to $10 a person.
 
Ultimately, though, the F.D.A. could not have taken the offensive without the mistakes made by the tobacco industry. Cigarette companies had left behind a paper trail stating their goals of developing, through clever advertising campaigns, children as customers. Leaked industry documents also show that some companies privately recognized cigarettes as little more than nicotine-delivery devices. What the tobacco companies aggressively dispute, and what will undoubtedly be argued in court, is whether, as the F.D.A. charges, the industry manipulated the nicotine levels in cigarettes to create addiction.
In interviews, Kessler tends to answer questions about the F.D.A.'s tobacco campaign by reading directly from tobacco industry documents; it is his way of avoiding a discussion of his own opinions, certainly, and also his way of letting the enemy make his case. And so it is tonight: Kessler roots around his living room in search of a document. "Here," he says, thumbing his way through some oft-visited pages in cigarette company reports from the 1970's that were recently obtained by the F.D.A. " 'The adolescent seeks to display his new urge for independence with a symbol, and cigarettes are such a symbol,' " he reads. " 'The fragile, developing self-image of the young person needs all of the support and enhancement it can get. Smoking may appear to enhance that self-image in a variety of ways. This self-image enhancement effect has traditionally been a strong promotional theme for cigarette brands.' "
He takes a breath and puts the document down silently, as if that's all that needs to be said.
So doesn't that make him angry?
"There's a time and place for anger," he says, "but not in this job."
What the conversation does produce are strong hints about where Kessler hopes to carry his anti-cigarette campaign. So far, some of the F.D.A.'s ideas have won wide attention: the proposals to ban cigarette vending machines, to forbid sporting events from naming themselves after tobacco companies, to halt distribution of Joe Camel-style paraphernalia and to force cigarette companies to abandon their visually seductive magazine ads, restricting them to text-only ads in magazines with significant teen-age readership. But it is not enough, Kessler tells me, to separate advertisers from their target audience. Teen-agers must be actively convinced that smoking is, in his words, "uncool."
There is a provision, mostly unnoticed, in the proposed F.D.A. regulations that demands $150 million each year from tobacco companies to finance anti-smoking ads. It is this sort of campaign, Kessler says, that will help the Federal Government reach its goal of cutting under-age smoking in half over the next seven years.
"You want to talk about getting angry -- ask a 16- or 17-year-old how they feel when they see an 11- or 12-year-old smoke a cigarette," Kessler says, implying that an ad featuring a teen-ager attacking cigarettes would prove more effective than a simple advertising ban.
And if it doesn't?
"What the agency has said is that once we assert jurisdiction over tobacco, we will put these measures into effect. And then if there needs to be other measures, we'll take other measures."
This is what frightens the tobacco industry, the idea that banning vending machines and rodeo sponsorship isn't the end for Kessler. He won't say what measures he would take if the current proposals prove ineffective, but there is speculation that he would try to force tobacco companies to produce cigarettes that are less toxic and less addictive.
It may have been Kessler's threat of even more regulation that in May prompted Philip Morris, America's largest cigarette maker, to issue with another tobacco company a plan to curb under-age smoking. The plan, which Philip Morris said would be adopted only if the F.D.A. agreed to leave the industry unregulated, mimics the F.D.A. proposals in many ways. But it is laced with holes and semantic sleights of hand. For one thing, the F.D.A. proposal states that the text-only cigarette ads would appear in magazines with 15 percent or more under-age readers; the Philip Morris proposal calls for the ads in magazines with 15 percent or more under-age subscribers, which would allow visual ads in, for instance, Rolling Stone.
"Their proposal fell substantially short," Kessler says.
But what if the tobacco industry truly matched the F.D.A.'s plan, proposal for proposal? Would the agency step aside?
"They would still need to be regulated," Kessler says, giving no quarter. "It would have to be credibly done. There would need to be a regulatory framework."
Kessler can afford to feel cocky just now; the new rules aren't yet in effect and the lawsuits from the tobacco companies haven't yet been heard. It is far from certain, though, that the Supreme Court would view sympathetically any attempt by a Government agency to regulate advertising or let the F.D.A. force the tobacco industry to sponsor anti-smoking messages.
Over the course of a dozen conversations, it becomes clear to me that Kessler won't leave the F.D.A., willingly at least, until he humbles the tobacco industry. I asked him what he would do if he lost the fight. He replied that, with the fundamental perception about cigarettes so radically altered, losing is no longer possible. "The truth," he said, "will survive."
What Do Americans Truly Want From Kessler?
It is almost certainly true that David Kessler is the only regulator in Government service who draws admirers the way that, say, George Stephanopoulos does. This should help his battle against cigarettes, except that he doesn't seem to like the attention.
"You're David Kessler, right?" a woman asks as she passes him in the cereal aisle of a Bethesda supermarket. After an uncomfortable pause, he admits that he is. "Keep up the good work on cigarettes," she says.
This happens twice more in 20 minutes. Granted, the supermarket is located inside the Beltway, deep in NPR and Volvo country, but such attention is presumably not accorded, even here, to high officials of the F.T.C. or OSHA.
Kessler and I are visiting the supermarket to discuss the impact of one of his key achievements: the 1994 introduction of the more-than-you-ever-wanted-toknow food labels, which place into dietary context the amount of fat in nearly every product sold in American food stores.
"I suppose I'm guilty," Kessler says as he reaches for a pint of Ben & Jerry's Chubby Hubby ice cream (350 calories per serving, 210 from fat). "If you're asking for a public apology for every time you've put something back on a shelf after reading the label, I'm guilty and I apologize. Sometimes, I pick up something and read the label and put it back. Sometimes I don't."
Surely David Kessler, a man painted by his enemies as an abstemious kvetch, bent on bleeding the joy out of life in the name of public health, doesn't eat ice cream? "In moderation," he says, then puts the Chubby Hubby back in the freezer.
He sweeps his arm across the aisle. "Look at this selection," he says, referring to the logjam of "low fat" and "no fat" products. "What we did with the new food labels -- it's about information. Information created demand. The food label changed the way manufacturers manufacture. What the critics of the new food labeling don't understand is that it's about choice."
Kessler's critics, though, say that the new food label, like the battle to regulate tobacco, is an example of an imperious Government agency infantilizing the American public by deciding what's in its best interests.
Just ask Walker Merryman, a Washington lobbyist.
"Have you ever looked at what Kessler did with orange juice?" he says, referring to the F.D.A.'s 1991 seizure of thousands of gallons of Citrus Hill orange juice. The juice was made from concentrate, and the company, Procter & Gamble, had refused to remove the word "fresh" from the label.
"Now, I love orange juice, I really do," Merryman continues. "But I only like fresh. I remember seeing the advertising for this brand and I saw the word 'fresh,' right under the brand. I also remember that it was clear to anyone who looked at it that the orange juice was made from concentrate. But not to Kessler. I remember thinking when he seized it, that's the dumbest goddamn thing I've ever heard of. Does he think people can't read a [expletive] label? Kessler thinks consumers are too damn dumb to look at a label and make up their minds. There's a philosophical divide we're talking about here."
Now, discount for a moment that Walker Merryman, the orange juice lover, is also the vice president of the Tobacco Institute, the industry trade group, and a prime spokesman for the "adult choice" cigarette argument. Merryman's view of Kessler is similar to that of most F.D.A. critics, who see at the core of everything that Kessler's agency does a flock of theoretically brilliant, Ivy League-trained lawyers who believe in their ability to protect Americans from themselves and who believe even more in their own superiority.
It doesn't take long, in fact, for some of the F.D.A.'s detractors to veer away from specific, policy-based criticisms to a sort of amorphous, class-based attack rooted in the cultural divide between Eastern, Government-friendly elites and everyone else. Such is the case with Joe Barton, the Texas Republican. When I asked him to talk in specific terms about the agency's weaknesses, he said: "They've had regulatory authority for so long that they think they're above people. To me, they're like the professional bureaucracy of the French Government. If they're supposed to go to lunch at 12, they do, and they come back at 2, and you'll just have to cool your heels waiting for these people."
Kessler, predictably, is hesitant to analyze the culture gap that may explain some of the hostility directed at him. He usually prefers instead to make mention of an eternal verity about Government regulation: "If you want to make people happy, don't become a regulator." He says this ruefully, but only half seriously, because he does believe that most Americans, when faced with a choice in the matter, would opt to have the Government watching over "the stuff they put into their bodies," as he calls it.
What's at stake on Capitol Hill is just how much watching the F.D.A. will be allowed to do in the future. Though he was pessimistic in May about the Republican legislation, Kessler seemed less burdened by July. Some Republican leaders in the House began to worry that a push for radical F.D.A. deregulation, and the floor fight that could follow, would be unhelpful to the party, still reeling from the perception that it had tried to gut environmental regulation.
In late July, the Republicans agreed to one major compromise, on an issue concerning both the F.D.A. and the Environmental Protection Agency. Republicans had wanted to scrap the Delaney Clause, a 1958 law that banned carcinogens in food additives and pesticides. Most scientists agreed that the Delaney standards were outdated, but the Administration didn't want to repeal the law unless it was replaced with other safeguards. Congressional Republicans are now proposing to do just that, having devised pesticide standards that are acceptable to Democrats while keeping, for now, the food-additive provisions of the Delaney Clause.
But support for deregulation still runs strong and, even if Congressional Republicans jettison their F.D.A. wish list, they are still pushing to check the agency's power. Meanwhile, Kessler continues to fight the impact of previous deregulation. Trying to take action against ephedrine in the wake of George Korizis's death, the F.D.A. is now investigating, at its own expense, each of the several hundred adverse events linked to ephedrine in dietary supplements.
And then there is the F.D.A.'s plan to regulate tobacco, which could be unveiled by President Clinton even before the Republican Convention. The announcement would surely be the climax of Kessler's F.D.A. stewardship. A few weeks ago, I asked him if he worries about a Dole victory this November and the attempt to undo tobacco regulation that might well follow follow.
Kessler dodged the question, as he dodges nearly all partisan questions, instead taking the opportunity to scold the agency's critics for misunderstanding the American public. "I learned something when I was Senate staff in 1981 and 1982," he said, referring to the early Reagan era and its deregulatory fervor. "The public does not want deregulation in the areas of health and safety. Time and time again, there are people on the Hill who misjudge this."
I asked Kessler if perhaps, as a young Republican, he, too, misread the public's position and is now repenting for that misreading. It is the sort of question that Kessler doesn't like, so he gave a nonanswer: "I watched the Republicans coming to deregulate the F.D.A., and in the end it didn't work because it's not what the American people want."
He is too cautious to make bold predictions, but he sees the current push for deregulation as a pendulum swing brought on, as it were, by the agency's success. "The better we prevent things from ever happening, people will feel more and more secure about their food and drugs, and the more pressure there will be on us to stop regulating. But the pendulum is dangerous. People get hurt by the pendulum. It's been the same pattern for 40 or 50 years."
Kessler is confident that, current F.D.A. controversies notwithstanding, the pendulum will swing back in the agency's direction. "There's a disconnect in this country on this issue -- I mean, take a look at Britain," he said, referring to mad cow disease. "The Government could have fallen, and over what? A food issue. And here they want to lower safety standards. In Britain, the one thing they're crying out for is a commission that has no other conflicts or loyalties other than making sure the public health is well served. Well, we already have that here."
 
A Full Plate at the F.D.A.
 The F.D.A. is embattled these days, and not just because of opposition from Congressional Republicans and the tobacco industry. David Kessler's agency regulates just about everything Americans put in their bodies, and there are plenty of other contested issues on its agenda. Here's a sample.
 
 Cyclospora: This summer the agency is pouring resources into trying to understand cyclospora, the protozoa that have recently caused severe diarrhea in hundreds of people. Along with the Centers for Disease Control, the F.D.A. has been searching for the source of this outbreak in, among other places, raspberries from Guatemala. The F.D.A., which regulates all food except meat and poultry (the Agriculture Department oversees those), has the power to pull adulterated foods off the market and to keep them out of the country.
 
 Bovine Growth Hormone: The F.D.A. is awaiting a follow-up report on bovine somatotropin (BST), an artificial hormone used to increase the milk output of dairy cows. The F.D.A. has already approved the drug, but because consumer advocates and scientists feared that BST might harm humans, the agency demanded that Monsanto, its manufacturer, conduct a two-year study on its possible deleterious effects.
 
 Olestra: Fat-free potato chips made with the much-hyped olestra, a fat substitute manufactured by Procter & Gamble, are causing diarrhea and other intestinal problems. The F.D.A. is under attack from the Center for Science in the Public Interest for allowing olestra onto the market, even though the agency did insist on a label informing consumers of the potential for "loose stools" in products containing olestra.
 
 RU-486: The first "morning after" abortion pill, developed in France, is being fast-tracked for review and possible approval. A decision could come as soon as September; approval is probable, given that two weeks ago an F.D.A. advisory panel endorsed the drug.
 
 Med Guides: The F.D.A. under Kessler has reintroduced an idea proposed during the Carter Administration: demanding that pharmacies to provide more in-depth information about the drugs they dispense. These "Med Guides," as the F.D.A. calls them, would essentially be a drug equivalent of the information-packed food labels required by the F.D.A. two years ago. Med Guides now seem likely to be required, despite opposition by druggists and deregulation-minded members of Congress.
 
 Dexfenfluramine: The agency is under attack from some consumer advocates for giving the go-ahead to this drug, the first anti-obesity drug approved by the F.D.A. in 23 years. Sold by Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories under the name Redux, dexfenfluramine is already on the market; some scientists speculate that it may cause neurological and lung damage.
 
 Xenotransplantation: An F.D.A. panel is now weighing the issues surrounding the transplanting of animal tissue into humans, like the recent use of baboon bone marrow in an AIDS patient and the possible transplantation of primate and pig organs into humans. The agency will most likely issue guidelines by the end of the year.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 1996, Sunday
PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

 CORRECTION:
The What's Doing column on page 10 of the Travel section today, about San Diego, carries an incorrect listing of vital statistics. It was prepared for another issue, about Mount Desert Island, Me. The correct listing appears in the main news section today, on page 39.
The What's Doing column on July 28, about San Diego, misstated La Jolla's municipal status. It is part of San Diego, not a separate town.
Because of an editing error, the What's Doing column on July 28 about San Diego misstated the admission policy of the San Diego Zoo. After Labor Day there is no entry after 4 P.M., though the zoo stays open to 6 P.M.; admission is not free at any time.
A photograph with an article on Aug. 4 about David Kessler and the Food and Drug Administration made an incorrect association between some potato chips and olestra, a fat substitute. The colored chips in the photograph, Terra Chips, are made with peanut, sunflower or canola oil, not olestra.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The San Diego Convention Center, on the waterfront downtown, will be the site of the Republican National convention Aug. 12 to 15.
TOP At Hippo Beach at the San Diego Zoo, the animals are merely decorative.
BELOW The Hotel del Coronado. (Photographs by Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)Photos: David Kessler. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIGEL PARRY/C.P.I., FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 22); On Capitol Hill, Kessler feels damned if he does, damned if he doesn't -- no matter what the issue is. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 25); Senator Orrin Hatch has gone from Kessler friend to foe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID BURNETT/CONTACT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 26); From F.D.A. headquarters in Rockville, Md., Kessler directs the agency's 9,000 employees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAN DIEGO CONVENTION CENTER CORP (58%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS SURFING (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); WATER SPORTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); MILITARY BASES (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%); NAVIES (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES ORRIN HATCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1996



614 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 03; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Q&A: Debra K. Pasquale;
A Fiscal Profile of Biomedical Research

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
DEBRA K. PASQUALE is executive director of Connecticut United for Research Excellence, a group known as CURE that promotes biomedical research.
 Recently CURE surveyed the biomedical industry in the state, concluding that it is contributing nearly $2 billion a year to the economy, and that there is potential for much more. "No other state," she said, "has quantified the enterprise the way we just have." 

 CURE has five employees and an annual budget of about $500,000. Ms. Pasquale is a registered nurse with degrees from the University of Hartford School of Nursing and Yale who started in critical care and specialized in oncology and clinical trials before joining CURE.
 Recently she answered questions about CURE in an interview in Groton at Pfizer Inc., a founding member of CURE. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
 Q. Could you sum up what your studies concluded?
 A. Twenty-five years ago there was one company in Connecticut, Pfizer, and it had about a $15 million research and development budget. Today there are four large companies, which spent $1.2 billion in 1995. That represents 10 percent of all pharmaceutical research and development in the country.
 There are also a lot of Federal research dollars that come in; Connecticut ranks fourth in the nation per capita, and in the top 10 in total dollars.
 And we really haven't capitalized on the little companies. They love to associate with the big pharmaceuticals, which are already here. We have a tremendous opportunity to attract small biotechnology companies to the state.

 Q. Does $1.2 billion represent all spending by the big biomedical firms?
 A. No. It doesn't include capital investments, for instance. In 1995, capital expenditure was about $175 million. When you look at everything, the impact comes up to somewhere near $1.7 billion.

 Q. What about small companies?
 A. There are about 10 small biotech companies now and we estimate that you could go from about 300 research and development employees at those firms now to about 1,000 in five years. And each one of those jobs has a multiplier effect of about 2.5, which means each job created in the industry creates 2.5 indirect jobs.
 That would represent about $20 million in revenue to the state through taxes and other sources. And if any of the compounds they're researching do make it to the market, the potential could be greater.

 Q. How many people does the industry employ now?
 A. At our major pharmaceutical companies, it's about 5,500. If you total everything up -- universities, small companies, other research employees -- it's about 8,500.
 
 Q. Is the industry concentrating anywhere in Connecticut?
 A. It's currently concentrating in greater New Haven, and the majority of companies have spun off from Yale University. There's certainly that capability at the University of Connecticut in Farmington also. We're a small state with two key research universities and four large pharmaceutical companies; there's a tremendous potential for growth.

 Q. When and why was CURE formed?
 A. CURE was organized about six years ago. There were a number of large corporations, leading research universities and hospitals interested in providing factual information about what goes on in the research laboratories of Connecticut.
 The driving force was a lot of inflammatory information on animal research. People felt it was high time scientists started telling the public what went on in the laboratories. Very quickly they realized that while animal research was a hot button issue, there was also a need to promote science education and public support for science.

 Q. How many members do you have?
 A. There are 65, up from 32 at the start, including educational institutes, health care corporations, hospitals or health care systems, professional societies and heart and cancer societies.
 Normally there is competition between a lot of these groups. Hospitals compete with each other; it's their business. But in this forum, they really come together.

 Q. But don't hospitals have very different goals from, say, universities or corporations?
 A. They have very similar goals in medical research. No single entity can take a new medicine from concept to the patient. So you rely on years of basic science that is done at the university. Then the pharmaceutical company builds on that to get it into a product line. Then you have the hospitals involved in clinical trials.
 Even when you look at big versus little, there is cooperation. The large companies develop drugs in a very traditional way. But the small companies can develop an innovative concept very quickly, move it through the trial stage quicker. And they often form business relationships with large companies to get it to market.

 Q. What are some advantages of the biotechnology industry?
 A. Biotechnology represents a new trend for the labor market in Connecticut: a knowledge-based industry. It requires a very educated workforce, and the average R.&D. salary is about $63,000. Those people have very high buying power. It requires very sophisticated equipment, so there's a lot of capital investment.

 Q. What can the state do to bring more of these businesses in?
 A. We made three recommendations. The principal one was really making the state more of a partner in the work that we're doing.
 The state also needs a matching grant program. If a company is putting money into research at a university or hospital, the state should match that.
 No. 3, there should be a tax credit for research. Those credits already exist for manufacturers, but the little companies doing just research couldn't get sales tax credit. That proposal passed as a bill in May.

 Q. Does the state have disadvantages in attracting new companies?
 A. One of the biggest problems is that there is no laboratory space for emerging companies. It's not a question of building this many square feet of space in this town by this date; it's really a question of giving the scientific community and developers a loan to give them access to equipment and space fairly quickly.

 Q. Is there a continuing conflict with animal rights groups over the issue of laboratory animals?
 A. You need to put that topic within a broader context: If you want new medicines, new and important medical devices, then there are steps within the scientific process that you need to consider. That includes test tubes, cell cultures, animal studies and human clinical studies.
 I'm a pet owner. I love my poodle. And you say to people, "You don't kick the dog." The same notion holds for laboratory animals -- there have got to be, and there are, safeguards in place for humane care and treatment of those animals, for ethical considerations as well as for good science. If the animals aren't cared for properly the science is bad, and the medicines that are developed won't work.

 Q. Are you working with schools to promote science education?
 A. Because scientific information is doubling every 10 years, our focus from the very start has been to be very aggressive at the kindergarten through grade 12 level. We have an innovative publication called BioRap, available free to Connecticut middle school students. About 170,000 copies a year go out.
 We have issues dealing on topics such as AIDS, rabies, Lyme disease, sun and skin care, aging and genetics. Each issue includes information on careers, science and discoveries, and a lot of health care tips.
 Last year we embarked on a campaign to make it available to schools nationally. So far 44 states have ordered more than 300,000 copies.
 This year we've applied grant funding and some support from the National Institutes of Health, in collaboration with the University of Connecticut. BioRap is going to be on the Internet.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Debra K. Pasquale, executive director of Connecticut United for Research Excellence. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: INTERVIEWInterview

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT UNITED FOR RESEARCH EXCELLENCE: PFIZER INC (84%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT UNITED FOR RESEARCH EXCELLENCE: UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT;; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RESEARCH: MEDICAL RESEARCH (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RANKINGS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (75%); NURSES & NURSING (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); ONCOLOGY (73%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (73%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; PASQUALE, DEBRA K; JOSEPH C PAPA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



615 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 08; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: Help From Overseas in Raising Youngsters

BYLINE: By ROBIN F. DeMATTIA

 BODY:
SINGLE parents and two-income families alike face the dilemma every day: Who takes care of the children while the adults are at work? Traditionally their choices have been limited to day care centers, babysitters and nannies.
 But 10 years ago another attractive option became available: a Federally approved program that supplies European au pairs to American families. The first such program, Au Pair in America, a Greenwich-based operation, has brought more than 70,000 young Europeans to the United States, this year placing 4,000 au pairs with families in 36 states, including 408 in Connecticut. 

 "The bottom line is American families need child care, and they want quality, safe child care," said Barbara Cartledge, director of Au Pair in America, now one of eight such programs. "This gives them the added benefit of a cultural experience."
 Ms. Cartledge said the young women, more than 80 percent of whom stay with the program for the full year they are legally allowed, welcome the chance to travel and study in the United States while living in a protective environment.
 "The No. 1 reason Europeans want to come to the United States," Ms. Cartledge says, "is to experience American life through a different angle, not just an academic or work environment. And there's a real sense of security in knowing that you're coming to live with a family that's been screened."
 Until this year the au pairs came primarily from Western Europe. Late last year, however, the government authorized worldwide participation in au pair programs and Au Pair in America expects 450 au pairs from Eastern Europe, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand to sign up this year.
 In the fall, the program will also launch Au Pair in Europe, allowing Americans to join families in England, Spain, France and Germany as au pairs.
 Twelve-year old Kathleen Heagney of Simsbury may someday be among them. Seven au pairs have taken care of her and her siblings -- 13-year-old Walker, 9-year old Addison and 5-year old Emmet -- over the last nine years.
 As their mother, Barbara Heagney, a schoolteacher in Farmington, put it, "When my husband first suggested having someone live in our home it was a foreign idea to me, but I didn't know what else we were going to do."
 Her husband, Robert, a lawyer in East Hartford, broached the subject when Addison was soon to be born.
 "Our major concern was that we would give up a certain amount of our privacy," Ms. Heagney said. "When you get over that, you wonder if you can make the girl happy, especially one from overseas."
 The Heagneys' first two au pairs were from the United States, but it didn't work out. "They didn't seem to have this real desire," Ms. Heagney says. "They acted like this was better than nothing."
 Since then their au pairs -- from Germany, England and the Netherlands -- have fit in much better.
 "I want to share with them things about the United States as much as they want to learn it," said Ms. Heagney. "And they want to share things about their country as much as we want to hear it. It's give and take."
 Ms. Cartledge explains what her agency looks for in potential au pairs: "We don't want people who only want to travel. They must be open, have a lot of energy, want to work with children, and be proficient in English."
 The young women are interviewed, submit a medical form, have a criminal background check, provide references, complete a personality profile and write a 600-word essay telling why they want to be in the program. Finally, the families and the au pairs speak on the phone to determine if they are compatible.
 Because the au pairs' visas allow them to stay for only one year, Ms. Heagney must change each year, but then too, the family's needs change.
 When their third child was on the way, "We needed an au pair who could adjust to a baby who might cry regularly or was fussy. Now that the kids are older it's like a revolving door here with all their friends. It's important that the au pair can deal with the level of commotion."
 Their current au pair -- 27-year-old Rachel Buckle from Yorkshire, England -- says she adjusted easily.
 "I got involved in the children's sports, and I think they saw me as somebody who they could play with rather than somebody who told them what to do all the time," said Ms. Buckle. "You've got to find the balance between being the advisor and the big sister."
 Ms. Buckle says she always wanted to live abroad, and America was the top country on her list. She earned a degree in art and design five years ago in England, and wants to teach arts and crafts in schools. She takes jewelry design classes at the Farmington Valley Arts Center.
 Each au pair is allotted $500 a year for tuition reimbursement, paid by the family, and Ms. Cartledge says most of the young women attend community colleges. Families also pay their au pairs $115 to $125 a week, and give Au Pair in America $3,950 to participate in the program (a fee that covers recruitment expenses, air transportation, a four-day training program, insurance and support from a community counselor). The au pairs are expected to work a maximum of 45 hours a week, and are given two weeks vacation. That schedule tends to be flexible.
 "During the school year it's hard for me to keep to 45 hours a week," Ms. Heagney explains. "But we make up for it in the summer."
 Ms. Buckle, with a month off this summer, is traveling to Cape Cod and Mexico. She will miss this type of freedom, she says, when her year comes to an end. "You have no bills to pay and no major worries," she said. But most of all, she said, whe will miss the Heagney family. "I've grown very attached to them."
 Disrupting the lives of young children by having one au pair leave and another jump into the family could be stressful, but the transitions have gone smoothly for Cindy Keegan of Norwalk and her children.
 "It's amazing that there was never any crying or sadness when an au pair left," Ms. Keegan says of the seven au pairs she has had. "My children were like 'O.K., we know you have to go.' They accept the fact that an au pair will leave but that they'll keep in touch."
 Indeed, Ms. Keegan may sometimes feels as if she is running a hotel for French tourists. Each of her au pairs has been from France, and all have come back to visit.
 "Every summer now we have a French barbecue and invite all our French friends," says Ms. Keegan, who learned from her group that the French don't actually grill anything for a barbecue; instead they serve cold salads and wine.
 The Keegans adapted other French customs into their lives. During Easter they celebrate with the Easter mouse instead of a bunny. At Christmas the Keegan children -- Jeffrey, 11; Daniel, 8, and Maggie, 6 -- leave shoes under the tree instead of hanging stockings. They also eat later at night and use candlelight.
 The family has influenced their au pairs too. "When they get to the United States they start dressing more casually, they eat when they want to eat, and they stop ironing their clothes," says Ms. Keegan. "Their parents cringe, but it's very stimulating for the girls."
 Ms. Keegan, a single mother, said she originally associated au pairs with "wealthier families," but as found financial as well as other advantages in the au pair program.
 "The stress level in the house, and my own physical health, is like night and day compared to our route without an au pair," she said. "She gets the kids off to school, has a snack ready for them while they do their homework, vacuums, does the laundry and starts dinner. The day-to-day stress is off my shoulders."
 One of her concerns, still, is when the au pairs go out at night to socialize. The Au Pair in America program organizes monthly meetings, events and trips for the young women, who also get together on their own. But Ms. Keegan says she has only one car and can't afford to have anything happen to it.
 "I haven't had one girl who was a drinker or heavy partier, but I did have one au pair who stayed out late," Ms. Keegan said. "I gave the car a curfew because I didn't want it out at three or four in the morning."
 Both Ms. Keegan and Ms. Heagney point out that living in Connecticut is a big draw for the au pairs because the state is close to New York City, Boston, Philadelphia and many other tourist spots. They also say the European young women are mature, intelligent and motivated.
 "Because the economy is so poor in France," Ms. Keegan points out, "they're highly educated and hard workers but they just can't find a job over there. So they're not coming here out of boredom."
 Cathy Jacquemart, 23, Ms. Keegan's current helper, studied at a secretarial school in France and wants to work at a hotel reception desk.
 "If I have the opportunity to work in the United States I would like to stay," she said. "I don't miss France, because it's quite hard for young people to find a job. I like it here. It's very easy to live. Everything in France is expensive."
 Ms. Jacquemart admits there are a few things she's found difficult about life in the United States. For one, the food. ("It's horrible here. I put on so much weight from eating junk food it's amazing.") And the weather. ("I hate all the snowing and raining. I live in the South of France where it's always beautiful.").
 But she feels at home with the Keegans. "I'm part of the family, like a daughter. I'm not like an employee."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cathy Jacquemart, of France, helps Cindy Keegan, of Norwalk, with her children: Jeffrey, 11, Daniel, 8, and Maggie, 6. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); ENGLAND (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AU PAIR IN AMERICA (94%); AU PAIR (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: AU PAIR (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%); ENGLAND (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE; FAMILY (91%); PARENTS (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (79%); 

PERSON: DEMATTIA, ROBIN F; BARBARA CARTLEDGE (75%); KATHLEEN HEAGNEY (74%); RACHEL BUCKLE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



616 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 01; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3279 words

HEADLINE: The Chinese Menu Guys

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

 BODY:
ZHU Q. JUEN is a mild-mannered 39-year-old immigrant from Fujian, China with a ready smile. But every afternoon, Mr. Zhu, who has delivered Chinese food for the last three years, joins the army of other deliverymen known as the Bicycle Brigade and goes into warrior mode. He flings a happy-face plastic shopping bag over the handlebars of his black mountain bike, races through the canyons of the Upper West Side, and charges his way into some of its best-guarded fortresses, bringing meals to those who have ordered them and menus to those who have not. Along the way, he dodges speeding buses and swerving cars and braves baseball bats, lit cigarettes and angry fists.
 Mr. Zhu acknowledges the job has turned him into Public Enemy No. 1 for those Upper West Siders eager to eradicate the menu menace. Distributing menus is the least favorite part of his work, he says, but he needs the job to pay off the remaining $10,000 of the $30,000 he paid to the men who smuggled him into this country. The ephemeral dinner rush, from which he makes most of his money, doesn't begin until 6 P.M. and lasts only until 10:30 P.M. And this being summer, when people prefer going out to ordering in, there isn't much money to be made on food runs, leaving even more time to fill distributing menus. 

 "What can I do?" he asked one recent afternoon as he darted from brownstone to brownstone in the 80's under the blazing sun, waves of sweat rolling down his face.
 Before Mr. Zhu could finish, Bruce Thomasahauer, a relationship coach, rushed out of his garden apartment. "Hey, cool it," Mr. Thomasahauer growled, crunching the menus into a ball and tossing them into the garbage can.
 Mr. Zhu bowed and smiled. "Thank you," he said, before dashing away.
 "I understand they need to make a living," Mr. Thomasahauer said, as he whipped out a collection of recent releases. "This is the fifth menu from the same restaurant in the last two weeks. One would last me a couple of years. There is no reason for them to keep this up."
 Today, as the appetite for takeout food continues to expand, neighborhood residents' tolerance for unwanted menus -- Indian, pizza, but mostly Chinese -- keeps dropping. "No Menu" signs in different languages and styles, a new urban art form, adorn building after building. Menus are torn, burned and thrown back with a passion once reserved, perhaps, for opposing foreign wars.
 Nowhere is this struggle more pronounced than the Upper West Side. As torrents of fliers appear daily and nightly, the residents have fought back. They have taken their complaints to court and to the streets, the community boards, elected officials and anyone with a sympathetic ear.
 They have lobbied to have their cause written into law, boycotted the worst offenders, and when laws failed them, engaged in hand-to-hand combat and even served time for the cause. But much to their chagrin, none of their tactics seem to work. No matter how loud they protest, the tidal wave of menus just keeps rolling in.
 Two years ago, Assemblyman Scott Stringer introduced a bill that would quadruple the current fine of up to $250 for distributing menus and other fliers on private properties that explicitly oppose them. But the bill has yet to be voted on because, since it would apply only to New York City, approval by the Council is necessary before it can be submitted to the Assembly. And Council members have expressed concerns over freedom of speech.
 By all accounts, Empire Szechuan restaurants are the most recalcitrant menu spreaders. Despite repeated promises from owners not to distribute them, their menus appear mysteriously underneath doors and inside vestibules.
 To the dismay of those living in buildings without doormen, menus are sometimes used to prop open the entrance door, allowing anyone in.
 "What makes this whole thing so frustrating is that no one takes the responsibility for this and yet the menus just keep on coming and coming," said Saul Lapidus, who owns a building in the West 70's.
 After years of gentle persuasion with no satisfaction, Mr. Lapidus finally took Empire Szechuan to Small Claims Court asking compensation for the cost of disposing of the menus. In March 1994, a judge awarded him $440.
 Officially, the owners and managers of Chinese restaurants on the West Side say they no longer distribute menus, even though they say the more menus they put out the better their business. But the army of bag-toting deliverymen roaming the city tells a different story.
 
 
Stuck in the Middle

 
 Caught between take-no-prisoners owners who equate menu distribution with profits and angry residents eager to fight back are the deliverymen. They must be aggressive enough to push, lie and sneak their way into as many buildings as possible, lest they be branded incompetent by the supervisors who sometimes surreptitiously trail them in cars, but they don't want to risk broken noses. If they are assaulted, as has happened frequently, forget about support from the owners. They have been known to tell angry protesters that the men were distributing the menus against their orders.
 Without hesitation, most of these men say their job is hellish. But with virtually no English, and with tens of thousands of immigrants flooding the job market, they say they feel fortunate just to have a job.
 In close-knit Chinese restaurant circles, distrust reigns supreme, and gossip and innuendo ricochet back and forth across town. To be hired, a person must have an impeccable reputation and a verbal guarantee, which in the Chinese tradition carries more weight than a written agreement, from a boss or a trusted employee.
 Mr. Zhu came with such a guarantee three years ago from a fellow villager who was also a deliveryman. Now, Mr. Zhu has become a trusted employee himself and the friend is a partner in a nearby takeout restaurant, Fat Ming, on Amsterdam Avenue near 92d Street.
 Relaxing in Riverside Park on his day off last week, Mr. Zhu, who permitted a reporter to accompany him provided his restaurant not be identified, envisions a similar career path for himself.
 "I have $10,000 left on my debt," he said after calculating with his fingers. "It'll take another year at the most. Then, I'll save enough money to open my own store. I'm going to start small with a takeout restaurant. Hopefully, I will have a real restaurant and some import and export business in a few years.
 "Then," Mr. Zhu said, breaking into a smile, "I will bring my daughter and my wife over."
 But for now, Mr. Zhu, who earns about $1,800 a month, must be content sharing a studio apartment on 97th Street with two nephews and two fellow villagers and putting in his 12 hours of work, six days a week.
 Shortly after he rises around 11:30 A.M., Mr. Zhu walks to his restaurant and heads straight for the kitchen to join the half-dozen or so deliverymen for a quick lunch of rice, stewed meat and a vegetable dish and some quick gossip about what happened in the world of delivery the night before. This is the time to find out who got the biggest tip, who was robbed or beaten and what's up with their favorite customers, the call girls who work out of an elegant apartment near the park.
 (These women are well liked because they are the nicest customers, Mr. Zhu hastened to explain. They tip well and correct his English, even teaching him a few words, which he declined to repeat when asked. "They have a big heart," Mr. Zhu said. "They talk to us and smile at us. They treat us like human beings.")
 After lunch, the men prepare for battle. They first stuff stacks of menus into brown paper grocery bags, which are then stuffed into plastic bags with a yellow happy face. Rags and crumpled paper are then placed on top to hide the menus from view.
 "Most doorman buildings won't let you go in if they see menus in your bag," Mr. Zhu said as he filled a plastic container with steaming Chinese tea, which would quench his thirst in a couple of hours of the scorching sun.
 By now, the men have memorized the buildings that are absolute no-no's. In an apartment complex in Harlem, security guards escort menu deliverers out of the building in handcuffs.
 "We don't go in there anymore," Mr. Zhu said.
 And then, there are borderline places where it's all right to distribute as long as you don't get caught, like the blocks of brownstones.
 When he reached his destination on West 113th Street, Mr. Zhu ran up the steps to ring doorbells.
 "U.P.S.," he answers cheerfully when a voice inquires.
 The door buzzes open. Mr. Zhu slides in.
 Once inside, he is careful not to go to the floor of the person who has buzzed him in, partly out of guilt, partly for fear of retribution.
 Starting on the highest floor, Mr. Zhu slides the menu underneath each door with Olympian speed and agility. He then hops down the stairs two steps at a time to another floor and repeats the process until he reaches the last apartment.
 Less than two minutes after he leaves the third floor, a thunderous groan is heard from an apartment there. "Oh no!"
 Close call. But no action.
 Right before leaving the building, Mr. Zhu arranges a stack of menus neatly on the radiator in the lobby.
 "I don't like to leave a mess," he says. "It helps to have a radiator."
 On to the next building. No fights. No injuries.
 A lucky day.
 By the time Mr. Zhu finished the block, sweat had soaked through his white shirt. Later, on a bench in Riverside Park, he savored the warm tea and took a good rest before returning to start his food run.
 An hour later, another group of five men crammed into a beat-up Celica and headed to Harlem. Without much ado, the men split into three groups and two men entered Delano Village on 139th Street in Harlem. With each man taking half of a building, apartments on 17 floors were blanketed with nearly 200 menus. A young woman greeted them with indifference in the hallway.
 
 
Lonely and Largely Alone

 
 Once the legion of deliverymen roaming Manhattan consisted of students and immigrants of Chinese ancestry from Malaysia, Taiwan and Hong Kong. But now, Fujianese immigrants, most of them smuggled into this country during the early 1990's, have completely taken over the trade. Their sheer numbers and desperate economic situations have made it possible for employers to lower the industry wage by at least 20 percent in the last five years. The basic salary in some of the city's better Chinese restaurants for deliverymen with private cars has fallen from $1,100 a month to $900.
 With their wives and children left behind and only a few worldly possessions filling several plastic shopping bags that are kept around their beds, most of these men lead lonely, solitary lives. But this particular group of men on West 97th Street, where many deliverymen live, have established a close bond, trading tips on subjects from the best places for their mountain bikes to sales in Chinatown. Laughter and words of encouragement fill the empty spaces between bunk beds. When the menu war gets tough in mid-afternoon, they retreat here for a short nap. On their days off, one man does the Chinatown supply run for the whole group, and they feast on what he brings back.
 "At least with this job we can make enough to survive," said Li W. Xiao. "You can do twice the work and make half the money in a garment factory."
 Until a year ago, Mr. Li, who was smuggled into America just four years ago, thought he was on top of the world. Inspired by the American entrepreneurial spirit, he and his brother took a gamble and borrowed $20,000 from friends and relatives to open a garment factory in Brooklyn. But they did not realize how fierce the competition would be. After they opened, orders never came in enough volume for them to pay the bills. They shut down the factory six months ago. Now, in addition to his smuggling debt, Mr. Li owes $10,000 more.
 "In this job, at least you don't have to worry about cutting paychecks for other people," he said. "This way, I can have a clear conscience."
 
 
All This, for $25 a Day

 
 Because he uses his own car for delivery, Mr. Li says he is paid somewhere from $900 to $1,100 a month plus tips, which average about $40 a night. But he must pay his own gas, which runs $150 to $200 a month. Those on bicycles, like Mr. Zhu, get $25 a day plus tips. Workers on the late-night shift, which ends at 2 A.M., receive an additional $300. Between tips and wages, the workers say they average $5 to $7 an hour.
 The best part of the day starts after 5 P.M., when the food runs start. From then on, they earn real money. But even this is far from ideal.
 To save time and keep themselves from being hit by reckless drivers on the road, the bicycle deliverymen ride on the sidewalks and ignore traffic lights, much to the dismay of pedestrians.
 But when they do ride on the street, cars cut close, sometimes knocking them down.
 "Yo, get a life," shouted a driver in a blue Mercedes after nearly mowing Mr. Zhu down on a recent Saturday. The passengers howled with laughter as the car zoomed away.
 Marks on either side of Mr. Zhu's face reveal the danger of his job. In three years, he has been hit once by a bus, once by a car, and robbed countless times.
 To many customers, a deliveryman ranks somewhere between a waiter, to whom a 15 percent tip is owed, and a bus boy, who is owed nothing.
 Unlike waiters who trot back and forth between the table and the kitchen in full view of the customer, a deliveryman's work is largely done out of sight. Although they pack the food into bags and then ride their bicycles at breakneck speed to insure it gets to the customer quickly, many customers feel no need to tip beyond $1 regardless of the order.
 One recent Saturday, when Hurricane Bertha toyed and teased Manhattanites with rain and strong winds, a couple in a fancy Central Park West apartment called in a $45 order. When Chen Rong arrived from 97th Street completely drenched, the man gushed with concern about Mr. Chen's health, cautioning him about catching a cold.
 Finally, the man took out four shiny quarters and dropped them one by one into Mr. Chen's hand.
 "Now young man, just remember," the man droned on. "Hard work will bring you rewards. This will make you rich. Now, goodbye, and stay dry."
 Forcing a smile, Mr. Chen bowed and said, "Thank you."
 As he was leaving the marbled lobby, Mr. Chen said deliverymen who dared to glower after a bad tip have prompted complaining phone calls from customers. Some have been dismissed, he said.
 Distance is no guarantee of a good tip either. After hustling through rush hour traffic that stretched a 13-mile round trip into 40 minutes, Zhang A. Sheng received $1 on an $30 order.
 "I dread these trips," said Mr. Zhang with visible agitation. "The tip doesn't even pay for gas. The boss wants good attitudes. How can I smile?"
 Then, reaching into his glove compartment, Mr. Zhang took out a traffic ticket, courtesy of an Upper East Side medical office manager who had refused to come down to pick up food. Mr. Zhang had to double park while he took the food up. On that trip, he earned a $5 tip for a $150 order.
 But there are plenty of sympathetic souls left in the city.
 On a $15 order, Okolo Schwinn-Clanton gave Mr. Chen a $4 tip.
 "I used to deliver pizza myself," Mr. Schwinn-Clanton, now in corporate life, said humbly.
 And on a $60 order, Pam Spitzer, a freelance editor, gave Mr. Zhu a $10 tip. "They work hard to make a living," Ms. Spitzer said. "I figure I'll do my part."
 But luck is not often with Mr. Zhu. Two days later, on a run to a Riverside Drive apartment near 97th Street, a group of men jumped on him and put a knife to his stomach, taking about $100.
 "It happens all the time," Mr. Zhu said the day after. "But you have to keep going."
 With a forceful push of his right foot, he mounted the bike and began another trip.
 
The Delivery War: In the Trenches
 
 ROMANCE was in the air on the hot, muggy August Sunday in 1994 and Philip Carlo, a writer, was walking out of his building on West 88th Street with an old flame.
 But the date soured when he spotted a lanky Chinese man putting menus from a restaurant called China Barbecue in his vestibule, ignoring the bilingual "No Menu" signs he had spent $30 to put up.
 "I told the guy to stop and gave him back the menus," Mr. Carlo said. The delivery man put them back. Mr. Carlo picked up the menus again. The delivery man put them back again. A shoving match broke out. Fists flew and the two men spilled out on to the street.
 The man suffered a broken jaw; Mr. Carlo a bloody nose.
 Mr. Carlo, who was then finishing "Night Stalker," his recently published book about Richard Ramirez, the Satan-worshipping mass murderer, was convicted of assault and sent to Rikers Island for 60 days. Charges were dropped against the delivery man.
 It was the bloodiest skirmish to date in the great Upper West Side Menu War.
 With drugs, homelessness and other more-pressing issues plaguing their neighborhoods, it may seem baffling that so many Upper West Siders are so offended by something as innocuous as Chinese restaurant menus. But Saul Lapidus, who has organized protests against all fliers, cites these dangers:
 * Uncollected menus indicate that nobody is home, an invitation to crime.
 * Building owners are often socked with fines from the Sanitation Department for not picking up the menus fast enough from their sidewalks.
 * People who live in buildings with marble floors say they fear they will slip on a menu and seriously injure themselves.
 * It is bad for the environment to waste so much paper.
 When the issue first came up in the 1980's, tolerant Upper West Siders were gentle in their opposition to the menus. "Please do not leave menus," they asked nicely. And when it finally dawned on them that the Chinese immigrants may not understand English , they had the signs translated into Chinese, some of which were promptly stolen. They complained directly to the restaurants, who promised to stop the menu distribution. But the menus kept coming.
 "They'll invite you over and listen politely to what you have to say and then they'd continue doing exactly what they were doing," Mr. Lapidus said. "They are a community business but they have no respect for the community's wishes."
 But Misa Chang, a partner of Empire Szechuan Gourmet, said those who complain do not give the restaurant enough credit for its role in revitalizing the area in the last 20 years.
 "The area was so bad back then that people just didn't come out," said Ms. Chang, who claims to have pioneered the delivery concept 20 years ago while the restaurant was a mere six-table hole in the wall. "I would bring them food in the snow and leave some menus with them. They were grateful to have had this."
 Although they concede that menus are a nuisance, owners and restaurant managers say they cannot afford to stop the practice because they bring in significant business.
 A manager at Hunan Balcony at Broadway and 98th Street who would not give his name said takeouts account for two-thirds of their total business.
 Betty Shau, the wife of another partner of Empire Szechuan, James Shau, said the restaurant has stopped distributing menus to those buildings that object and have resorted to bulk mailing.
 But on a recent day, underneath his "No Menu" sign, Mr. Carlo came home to yet another menu from Empire Szechuan.
 "You just can't win," he shook his head, picking up the menu and throwing it into the garbage. JANE H. LII

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zhu Q. Juen and his compatriots are foot soldiers on the frontlines of the takeout menu wars. They brave downpours, risk swipes by cars and endure bad tips. So why are they Public Enemy No 1? (pg. 1); UNWANTED DELIVERY -- Upper West Siders keep complaining about delivery menus littering their buildings. Restaurant owners keep promising to stop distributing them. But the menus keep on appearing mysteriously in lobbies and under doors. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Philip Carlo broke a menu man's jaw. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
 
Chart: "Memorable Moments In the Menu Wars"
 
AUGUST 1992 -- Protestors march into Empire Szechuan Gourmet's dining room and dump hundreds of delivery menus they've collected.
 
AUGUST 27, 1994 -- Philip Carlo of West 88th Street pummels a deliveryman from China Barbecue (now closed) in the lobby of his building. Mr. Carlo serves 60 days on Rikers Island for assault.
 
MARCH 1994 -- Saul Lapidus sues Empire Szechuan for littering his two brownstones in the West 70's and wins $440 judgment.
 
JUNE 1995 -- A secretary, Jane O'Connor, is punched by an Empire Szechuan deliverer after telling him to stop dropping menus at her West 96th Street building. Ms. O'Connor wins a $2,000 judgment against Empire Szechuan. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY;; CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; LITTERING; RESTAURANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CYCLING (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); 

PERSON: LII, JANE H; ZHU Q JUEN (80%); BRUCE THOMASAHAUER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



617 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 01; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2494 words

HEADLINE: Mountain Time

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: MONTVILLE

 BODY:
David Moore, who was leading the hike up Pyramid Mountain on a crystal summer day, stopped at a clearing, climbed onto a rock and admired the view. It was something to brag about, all right. Below was a summer camp surrounded by tidy squares of farmland. To the right, the dappled waters of Deer Lake. And in the distance, green ridges undulating all the way to the Manhattan skyline.
 "The first reaction people have when they come up here is, 'Wow, is this New Jersey?' " said Mr. Moore, executive director of the New Jersey Conservation Foundation. 

 He was standing somewhere near the geographic center of what may be New Jersey's least noted, least understood natural region: the New Jersey Highlands. Covering 750,000 acres of farmland, pristine watersheds, dense hard-wood forests and rugged, rolling mountains, the Highlands region is bigger than Yosemite National Park, spanning 7 counties and 83 towns.
 Its reservoirs, streams and rivers supply water to more than half of the state's population. It is home to 38 endangered or threatened species -- the short-nose sturgeon, Cooper's hawk, the blue-spotted salamander. In 1992, a study by the United States Department of Agriculture called it "a landscape of national significance, rich in natural resources and recreational opportunities."
 But that landscape is changing at a breathtakingly fast, some say alarming, pace.
 The change is difficult to measure or manage, because it is not spreading in any organized, concentric fashion but is popping up in random housing developments and strip malls -- "holes being punched all over the Highlands," as Mr. Moore put it. (In a few years, the view he stopped to admire at Pyramid Mountain will include a development of 400 luxury houses now being carved into its foothills.)
 Nowhere in the Highlands has the prospect of change received more attention than in Sterling Forest, 20,000 acres of mountains, wetlands and lakes straddling the New York State line. While the forest's 2,000-acre New Jersey section has been bought by Passaic County, the two states and the Federal Government have been locked in seemingly endless negotiations over buying the 18,000 acres in New York from a private concern that wants to build housing there.
 But Sterling Forest, for all the focus on it, is only one critical area of many. In the New Jersey Highlands, as much as 10,000 acres (the equivalent of half a Sterling Forest) is being developed piecemeal every year -- in a region that has seen a 60 percent increase in urbanization in the last 25 years and is expected to absorb a 14 percent increase in population in the next 20.
 Not everyone is alarmed by this prospect. Developers, along with many local officials, point out that development is simply a reflection of the demand for housing, which can be built more economically (and on larger lots) in the rural Highlands than in the built-up suburbs. To deny that demand, they say, would be artificial -- and might well run afoul of the State Supreme Court's Mount Laurel mandate that every developing town absorb its share of the regional need for low-cost housing.
 "Some people have created the illusion that this is a remote pristine area, where in fact it is part of the Northeast Corridor and has a tremendous number of jobs and people and growth right now," said Joanne Harkins, director of land-use planning for the New Jersey Builders Association.
 Environmentalists disagree, saying the Highlands are unique and fragile. "The Highlands, together with the Pinelands and the Delaware Bay, are the the last places New Jersey has left of its original landscape, and they are probably New Jersey's last opportunity to do something from a land-use standpoint that permits some of it to remain for generations," said Terrence D. Moore, who was the first executive director of the corporation that manages Newark's watershed in the Highlands and is now executive director of the State Pinelands Commission. "The question is whether you can do something in the Highlands on time."
 Governor Whitman has described the Highlands as "New Jersey's last frontier," adding that "it is an ecological imperative that we put a premium on preservation and conservation." But it is far from clear how much of a premium the state, or any government, can afford.
 Unlike the Palisades a century ago, the Highlands cannot simply be bought up and preserved. Only 15 percent of the region remains in public hands, and the number of private landowners is growing: the average size of a parcel of land has fallen sharply over the years, to 12.8 acres in 1988 (the last year available) from 22 acres in 1972. And unlike the Pine Barrens two decades ago, the Highlands probably cannot expect extensive land regulation, given the current push for decentralized state government and the strength of home rule.
 A growing number of planners and environmentalists, with some support from local officials, are promoting a third alternative for the Highlands: protection on a smaller scale, perhaps town by town. In an approach that has had some success in the Pinelands, as well as Long Island and Maryland, environmentally sensitive lands would be protected in exchange for denser "cluster" development on other land.
 "Nobody doubts the benefit of cluster zoning as opposed to your more tradtional 5- or 10-acre zoning, which is a cookie-cutter landscape not leaving any core area for habitat or watershed," said Rose H. Harvey, senior vice president of the Trust for Public Land in New York. "It's not the panacea, but it's a better alternative."
 There are many obstacles to such an approach, notably home rule and resistance from individual landowners. But as the Agriculture Department warned in its 1992 report, "regions that destroy the attractiveness of their landscapes and the health of their ecological foundation will simply not be competitive in the emerging economy of the 21st century -- an economy of businesses seeking places with a high quality of life." Here are three places where the struggle is being joined.
 
WEST MILFORD
Watershed's Watershed
 Since the early 1900's, the City of Newark has owned the Pequannock Watershed, which supplies drinking water for two million New Jersey residents from its reservoirs and forested lands across 35,000 acres and six towns. And nowhere has Newark's presence been felt more than in West Milford, of which Newark owns about 18,000 acres -- 30 percent of the entire township.
 In 1988, the Legislature imposed a moratorium on selling watershed lands after environmentalists protested the sale of Hackensack Water Company land in Bergen County. The moratorium prompted Newark to appeal its tax payments on the Pequannock Watershed, saying its vacant land should not be assessed at full-market rates. The courts agreed, ordering the towns to repay the city and sticking West Milford with a $1.6 million tab.
 That obligation has put intense pressure on the towns to allow more development on forested lands outside the watershed. Tax payments from new development would ease the tax burden on current landowners.
 "We don't view this as an environmental issue, we view this as a tax equity and financial survival issue," said John H. Eskilson, manager of Hardyston Township, which owes Newark $400,000. "We're basically rural with a limited tax base, and a limited ability to grow."
 West Milford has sought to change its zoning to suit the State Development and Redevelopment Plan, which would strengthen any application for state loans and grants. It has had help from the Regional Plan Association, the nonprofit group that studies tristate development issues; last year the association unveiled a plan to cluster new development around Pine Cliff Lake and to preserve all other areas as open space. The plan, complete with computerized 3-D scenarios, also sought to lift the local economy and knit a sprawling township whose de facto center now is an enormous, gray Shop Rite that looks like a Stalinist relic.
 Linda P. Morgan, director of the Regional Plan Association's New Jersey office, says the best way to achieve these goals is a procedure called transfer of development rights, in which landowners in protected areas are paid not to develop them; the money comes from landowners in other parts of town, who win the right to build denser clusters of housing on their land. The association and the Newark Watershed Conservation and Development Corporation, which manages the watershed lands, want West Milford to shift the development rights from 2,300 acres in the watershed to the proposed town center.
 The township has proposed a variation on that plan, but it has drawn mixed reviews. "It's going to be horrible from a pollution standpoint, it's going to be horrible from a tax standpoint, and it's going to be horrible from a traffic standpoint," said Jeff Tittel, a spokesman for Skylands Clean, an environmental group in Ringwood. "It'll be Paramus in the Pines."
 Even the Regional Plan Association has distanced itself from the township's report. "What we tried to do was give them a positive model that other towns can pick up in other rural areas, said Ms. Morgan. "But there wasn't anything strong enough in their draft report to insure that they would protect the green space, and it seemed like there would be seven centers in town."
 Kevin Byrnes, the township manager, dismisses those concerns, saying there would be ample room for open space as well as retail and residential development. But there is increasing pressure on the Legislature to repeal the 1988 moratorium. That would open as much as 10 percent of the watershed to development, and any regional planning process might fall by the wayside.
 
VERNON
Golf, or Country Inns?
 The debate over Eugene Mulvihill's plan to build a campground and a golf course on Hamburg Mountain in this Sussex County township -- next to his financially troubled but popular Great Gorge and Vernon Valley amusement and skiing area -- is part of a much larger debate: What kinds of recreation are appropriate for the Highlands?
 On one side are those who say activities like golf and skiing are critical to the economy of the Highlands, which already attract eight million visitors a year. On the other are those who worry that too much recreation induces too much development and that chemical runoff from golf courses could seep into the water.
 Mr. Mulvihill's plans, first floated in 1992, were part of a grander vision that included a hotel and conference center, movie theater and shopping center. But local groups objected, saying that when Mr. Mulvihill bought the land from the state in 1986, there were deed restrictions to keep it undeveloped. Now the project is in limbo, contingent on state environmental permits and the financial health of Mr. Mulvihill's Great American Recreation Inc., which filed for bankruptcy earlier this year.
 Neither Mr. Mulvihill nor his son and partner, Andrew, returned calls seeking comment. But Ralph Carnesecchi, Mayor of Vernon Township, said he "would love to see this golf course get off the ground" because it would mean more jobs. "I think you'll attract a quality clientele and I think the natural beauty of the area will be preserved," he said. "Admittedly, it won't be in its pristine state, but as close to that as humanly possible."
 But others say pristine areas are just what will attract tourists. "A golf course is not eco-tourism, because you're looking at an intense use of the land," said Dennis Miranda, special projects coordinator of the New Jersey Conservation Foundation. "You have to artificially create a giant lawn."
 An alternative that seems to please nearly everyone is tourist attractions that capitalize on the Highlands' rural, 19th-century character -- bed-and-breakfast inns, crafts villages. But political realities must be taken into account. "You can't lock up a huge chunk of the state anywhere and say we're going to freeze things," said State Senator Joseph Kyrillos Jr., a Monmouth County Republican who is chairman of the Committee on Natural Resources and Economic Development. "You have to have some economic development, but hopefully the kind of development that won't inordinately change the character of the Highlands."
 
GREENWICH TOWNSHIP
The Plant Next Door
 While West Milford and Vernon have focused on the supply and use of water, Greenwich has been concerned with its disposal.
 In this bucolic part of Warren County, developers have proposed an $8 million sewage treatment plant on a former goat farm in Greenwich (pronounced GREEN-witch), a 10-square-mile township of just 2,200 people. That would enable them to develop a 630-acre industrial park off Route 78.
 The sewage plant would pump 600,000 gallons of treated sewage a day into the Musconetcong River, with a potential for 440,000 more, and supporters say it is badly needed. The only other plant in the area, in Phillipsburg, is approaching its capacity of 3.5 million gallons a day. "We have been artificially held back by zoning, by various regulations, and we have missed opportunities," said Robert J. Schwartz of Land Equity Real Estate Inc. in Lebanon, who organized 16 major investors for the project.
 But the proposed sewage plant and industrial park apparently contravene the anti-sprawl guidelines in the State Development and Redevelopment Plan, which call for the area to remain agricultural, not industrial or commercial. Opponents say the new development would be another blow to a vanishing way of life, and they add that it would divert businesses from nearby Phillipsburg, which is desperate for industry.
 "This project will change the life style as we know it," said Jay Martino, a member of the Greenwich Township Citizens Action Committee. "We already have residential developments. We're under siege to become suburbia."
 There are also fears for the Musconetcong River, a popular trout-fishing ground. Despite developers' assurances that the the treated water being pumped out will actually be cleaner than the water now in the river, residents have appealed to the National Park Service to include the Musconetcong in its Wild and Scenic River System. For now, it is up to the State Department of Environmental Protection to decide whether design and engineering work can begin.
 Which gives Wilma E. Frey some time to put it all in perspective. On a hike recently up Pohatcong Mountain in Greenwich, Ms. Frey, coordinator of the Highlands Coalition, an association of more than 80 environmental groups, came to a spot whose sweeping view of ridges and farmlands recalls Pyramid Mountain, at the other end of the Highlands.
 "I hope we'll see more people who want some regional planning with local regulations," she said. "Otherwise, this could all be just gone, and the whole area will be covered to look like Bergen County and the rest of New Jersey."

GRAPHIC: Photos: NOW YOU SEE IT . . . David Moore, at left, admired the view from Pyramid Mountain. Soon it will include luxury houses on these lots. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. 1); CHANGING VIEW Pressure to build in the Highlands has intensified in recent years. Above, new houses at Bald Eagle Village in West Milford; below, hikers on Pyramid Mountain. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY;; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; MOUNTAINS (90%); HIKING (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RIVERS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (77%); URBANIZATION (77%); WETLANDS (77%); LAKES (77%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (76%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); WILDERNESS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); POPULATION SIZE (57%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (52%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W; TERRENCE D MOORE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1996



618 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: DIGITAL COMMERCE;
Education Technology recruits a masterful marketer of games to be its leader.

BYLINE: By Denise Caruso 

 BODY:
IT may be a sign of the times when the former president of Sega of America, Thomas Kalinske, leaves his job -- as he announced earlier this month -- to join a start-up called Education Technology L.L.C.
What could it mean when the master salesman of Sonic the Hedgehog takes the top job at a company set up to create and buy companies that sell educational technology? 
 It means that some big-money players have their eyes on what they hope is a very big market for what are called "edutainment" products.
Education Technology was announced in March by its two high-profile founders -- Lawrence Ellison, chairman of the Oracle Corporation, and Michael R. Milken, the former junk-bond financier. They hope to "do well by doing good," as Mr. Ellison puts it, by playing the educational-products market.
As described by Oracle, a leader in corporate data base software, this is an $833 billion worldwide market opportunity. But as it turns out, that number, compiled from various sources by Oracle, counts all the costs of providing education -- salaries, books, supplies, administration -- to schools and universities, government and corporations.
Presumably, edutainment would be a small subset. A report on the United States education market, published by the Software Publishers Association, found that for the 1993-94 school year, the latest data compiled, a total of $2.6 billion was spent in grades kindergarten to 12 for products and services that included personal computers, educational software and courseware, computer supplies and telecommunications connections.
And the association projects an increase to just $4.5 billion by 1999. Nonetheless, a new batch of players is joining the education software field, where the veterans include Wolfram Research, whose Mathematica program revolutionized the way mathematics is taught in many schools; Broderbund Software Inc., and the Learning Company.
Like some of these established players, the new entrants mean to combine education with entertainment. One example is a company called Lightspan Partners of Carlsbad, Calif., which has backers like Microsoft and the cable television giant Tele-Communications Inc., and a management that includes Hollywood screenwriters and animators, as well as education-software executives.
Similarly, the first investment for Mr. Ellison's Education Technology was to buy shares in the toy company Hasbro Inc.
"The Hasbro characters, in an educational context, have enduring value," Mr. Ellison said. "Mr. Potato Head might be able to teach you arithmetic."
But Mr. Ellison is banking on far more than Mr. Potato Head to make education a profit center. "If we can get the price down low enough, and I think we can, we see every kid having a network computer at home and at school -- as common as telephones and televisions -- by the year 2000," he says. "I don't know whether that's realistic, though; it make take until 2005."
This forecast may seem incredible, considering that most of the nation's schools struggle to pay teachers a competitive salary. And even if they could put a network computer on every school desk, few schools yet have the multiple phone lines in every classroom that such machines would require.
Some steps are being taken to correct this situation. Earlier this year, some 100,000 volunteers installed network cabling in 4,000 schools around the nation as part of a continuing program called Net Day 96. But there are some education technology experts who wonder whether the effort is worth the time and trouble.
The best of the educational software available today is excellent, according to Judah L. Schwartz, a professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a professor of education and a co-director of the Educational Technology Center at Harvard University.
As for the rest of it, Professor Schwartz says, "The metaphor of the Augean stables is wonderfully appropriate." (In Greek mythology, one of Hercules' tasks was to clean the stables of King Augeas, where celestial horse muck was being produced at a faster rate than Hercules could shovel it.)
But no matter how low the quality, or how high the cost, economics may yet drive technology into the schools, since much of the cost of education is those pesky salaries for teachers -- whose labor many people see as a natural target for automation.
The cost of higher education has tripled over the last decade, mostly because of teacher salaries, according to Robert Heterick, the president of Educom, a consortium of colleges and universities that works to integrate technology into education.
"Today you're looking at a highly personal, human-mediated environment," Mr. Heterick said. "The potential to remove the human mediation in some areas and replace it with automation -- smart, computer-based, network-based systems -- is tremendous. It's gotta happen."
The likeliest candidates include courses like basic math, English and science, which enroll some 50 percent of a university's students and are at the core of any K-12 curriculum. "If I could get a small piece of that market," he says, "there's huge potential out there."
Educators like Professor Schwartz are not so enthusiastic.
"If you think of education as a production-line function, to train the next generation of 'proles' in the Orwellian sense, then you're right," he says. "It is a big market. But the object of schooling is not simply to transmit knowledge. It's to get students to participate in the making of knowledge. That's an essential part of the human experience."
One industry veteran hoping that both perspectives can eventually co-exist in the classroom is Bud Colligan, who once led the education marketing team at Apple Computer. He is now the chairman of Macromedia Inc., which produces Authorware, one of the most popular software programs for creating computer-based training courses.
"You want to keep experimenting and finding the great examples of technology in the classroom," Mr. Colligan says. "But you want to temper your enthusiasm with some reality about the hype."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (93%); HAS (NASDAQ) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (93%); HASBRO INC (85%); BRODERBUND SOFTWARE INC (64%); WOLFRAM RESEARCH INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); SOFTWARE & INFORMATION INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOFTWARE & INFORMATION INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; AUTOMATION EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (88%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (79%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (76%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); WRITERS (71%); BOOK PUBLISHING (71%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (64%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (54%); ANIMATION (50%); 

PERSON: CARUSO, DENISE LAWRENCE J ELLISON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



619 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Ratings Exceed NBC's Promises For The Games

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
At least until Saturday, when a terror bomb moved the nation's attention away from the Olympic competition, the first week of NBC's coverage of the Olympic Games in Atlanta has been among the most successful and profitable weeks in network television history, with ratings reaching levels not seen since Nadia Comaneci was swinging on a bar in the 1976 Olympics in Montreal.
In the first week, NBC exceeded its prime-time Olympics ratings guarantee to advertisers by more than 25 percent, providing a spectacular bonus for both its sponsors and the network. Indeed, ratings for the Olympics are well more than double NBC's previous summertime ratings. 
 Even better for NBC, a big part of the additional viewing has come from one group that the network aimed at especially hard with its Olympic promotions during the last year: younger women, an audience segment most desired by advertisers. After one week, NBC attracted 37 percent more women aged 18 to 34 to these Olympics than it had four years ago with the Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, and 67 percent more than the 1988 games in Seoul, South Korea.
NBC, which is owned by the General Electric Company, picked up gains across the board, with 30 to 50 percent increases in its ratings in the morning and late at night. All of those hours were stocked with promotions for coming NBC shows, creating a level of awareness among viewers that network programmers only dream of.
"NBC's numbers are simply phenomenal," said Paul Schulman, of the Paul Schulman Company, which buys media time for advertisers. "It just can't get much better for NBC."
NBC executives hope there will be no further terrorist activities that might threaten to disrupt the Games, and an NBC spokesman said the network had insurance in place to cover any cancellation.
Still, NBC executives are already calculating the positive fallout from the blockbuster performance of the Atlanta Games, and they predict the network may reap the following benefits:
*Its new prime-time shows may post better-than-expected ratings for the opening episodes as a result of the exposure they are getting to the 210 million Americans that NBC predicts will see some part of the games.
*A significant carryover among viewers may push NBC's "Today" show to a dominant position in the morning, enhance the first-place status in late night of the "Tonight" show, and perhaps nudge NBC's "Nightly News" into first place in the evening news competition.
*More cable systems are likely to pick up NBC's two cable channels, CNBC and MSNBC, which will be involved in the coverage of NBC's future Olympic ventures.
*NBC is expected to have the money it needs to keep its Olympic machine rolling -- and perhaps much sooner than the network expected.
NBC has committed itself to spending more than $3.5 billion to lock up five of the next six summer and winter Olympics, three of which -- the games of 2004, 2006, and 2008 -- have not even been doled out to host cities yet. But the tsunami from Atlanta may have already ended most of the economic risk the network faced.
A senior network executive, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that before the games were even five days old, NBC had been "approached by a half-dozen separate multinational advertisers who wanted to discuss multi-Olympic deals."
These deals could put in place a number of the big advertisers, enough to serve as a hedge, NBC executives said, against a future downturn in the television business that was really the only threat to a continued run of profits for NBC from the Olympics.
The Atlanta Games will make money for NBC, said Dick Ebersol, the president of NBC Sports. Mr. Ebersol is the man who made all those Olympic deals, and who conceived NBC's entire Olympic strategy, from acquiring rights far into the future to gearing the programming to appeal especially to women.
These games will make "just under $20 million," Mr. Ebersol said, a success that defies the conventional wisdom that followed NBC's bid of $456 million for the Atlanta rights. NBC won the Atlanta rights in a tight bidding contest against ABC, soon after NBC had lost about $100 million on the 1992 Games in Barcelona after paying $405 million for the television rights.
"I never doubted we'd make money from Atlanta," Mr. Ebersol said in a telephone interview from the NBC broadcast center in Atlanta.
For one thing these Olympics are in the United States, and Mr. Ebersol reckoned that the home turf advantage accounted for about 50 percent of the increased audience.
Moreover, NBC learned many lessons from Barcelona about how to program the games to maximum television effect. (The biggest of those lessons: Aim to draw in young women by telling dramatic stories of athletes, and don't worry at all about critics who complain about packaging events for prime time and pretending they're happening live.)
The first of NBC's future Olympics, the Games in Sydney, Australia, in 2000, represented the biggest leap, requiring a huge increase in the payment for the American television rights, to $705 million. Still, with advertisers already talking about signing up, NBC appears to have validated its long-range plans.
Mr. Schulman said he would advise his advertising clients unhesitatingly to sponsor NBC's future Olympic coverage. "There is nothing on television like it," he said, adding that Sydney represents an even bigger opportunity for NBC because the games will take place in late September and early October, thus assuring that NBC will obliterate all the competition from other networks trying to start a new television season.
"I think I can predict the winner of the 2000-2001 television season right now," Mr. Schulman said.
The current games will end about six weeks before this year's new television season begins, but rival networks are already nervous about the prospect of NBC's already dominant prime-time schedule getting an additional bounce from the Olympics. "It's almost frightening to think of them getting any stronger," the head of a rival network's entertainment division said.
Warren Littlefield, the president of NBC Entertainment, said, "What the performance of this Olympics means is that having climbed the mountain to get on top in prime time, we're getting a lot of help to continue the momentum."
Mr. Littlefield also pointed out that with the Olympics, "you're often reaching people who may have drifted away from network television." He said NBC's program department was making sure that Hollywood producers knew that the network would have hugely rated summer nights every four years on which to promote new shows.
"In program development sessions, we say: 'We've got five of the next six Olympics. If you're impressed with what's happening now, you ought to think about being with us in the future.' "
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (68%); GEC (LSE) (68%); GE (SWX) (68%); GE (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (55%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC) NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); PAUL SCHULMAN CO (82%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (87%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (55%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); TELEVISION; WOMEN; ADVERTISING OLYMPICS (94%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WOMEN (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL NADIA COMANECI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



620 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Mubarak Visits U.S. to Win Assurances on Arab-Israeli Talks

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: CAIRO, July 28

 BODY:
President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt traveled to Washington today to seek assurances that the effort for Arab-Israeli peace will not be deferred by Israel's switch to a Government that is harshly critical of existing agreements and negotiating blueprints.
Mr. Mubarak's visit, through Wednesday, comes at a time when Egyptian-American relations, while not strained, are not particularly warm either. 
 Egypt is uneasy about the commitment by the United States to press Israel toward compromise. And there are differences over sanctions against other Arab countries, over a second term for Boutros Boutros-Ghali, an Egyptian, as United Nations Secretary General, and over Egypt's perception that it is treated more as a dependent than as an ally.
But the question that looms largest is whether the Clinton Administration will be willing in an election year to press Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to accept the formula previously used in the peace talks -- that Middle East wars will end only when Israel returns land captured from the Arabs in 1967.
"Mubarak's mission is to make the Americans understand that backing away from the land-for-peace formula is harmful not only to the Arab countries, but to Israel and the huge American interests in the region," said Taha Abdel Alim, deputy chairman of Al Ahram Center for Strategic Studies, a Government-supported research center. "If Israel does not withdraw from occupied Arab land, most of the radical groups opposed to the ruling moderate Arab regimes will become stronger and more able to execute terrorist attacks."
Egypt's earlier confrontational attitude toward Mr. Netanyahu was somewhat mollified by the amiable tone he adopted during his visit to Egypt on July 18, his first to an Arab country.
But Egyptian commentators closest to Mr. Mubarak are still wary, and three weeks after Mr. Netanyahu's first visit to Washington as Prime Minister they are still talking about his ardent reception there.
The Arab countries had been hoping to hear some word then that the United States would push the Netanyahu Administration at least to respect the agreement for Israeli troops to redeploy around the West Bank city of Hebron, leaving most of the city under Palestinian control. It was delayed first by a series of bus bombings directed at Israelis that killed 63 people last winter and then by the elections. The Arabs were dumbstruck to watch the United States Congress give Mr. Netanyahu thunderous applause when he said that Jerusalem was not a negotiable issue.
"There should be a stronger commitment on the part of the United States to act as a full partner and an unbiased mediator," wrote Ibrahim Nafie, editor in chief of Al Ahram, the main Government-run daily newspaper.
The final status of Jerusalem, of settlements on the West Bank, of borders and of Palestinian refugees are all supposed to be subject to negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis. In addition, Egypt has supported the position that peace with Syria can be achieved only through returning occupied territory.
Along with rejecting negotiating over Jerusalem or a future Palestinian state, Mr. Netanyahu has said that Israel would not withdraw from the Golan Heights, captured fom Syria in the 1967 war.
On regional issues, Mr. Mubarak is likely to raise the point that the United States should be more flexible with regard to economic sanctions on Libya as well as sanctions imposed on Iraq over its invasion of Kuwait. Egypt has taken the position that the two Libyans suspected of blowing up Pan American Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988 can go to trial before an international tribunal, while the United States and England insist the two face one of their courts. Libya is under United Nations sanctions for failing to turn the two men over for trial.
Although this month's destruction of T.W.A. Flight 800 has yet to be definitively ascribed to a terrorist attack, suspicion of possible links to the Middle East adds pressure on the two sides to continue their high-level consultation on terrorism issues.
Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the spiritual leader of the Islamic Group, is serving a life sentence in the United States for plotting terrorist attacks on New York City landmarks, and he has called on his followers to avenge him. Some of his followers were also convicted in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. The group also seeks the violent overthrow of the Egyptian Government, and confrontations have left about 1,000 people dead here during the last four years.
On other issues, Egypt considers the attempts by the Clinton Administration to dump Mr. Boutros-Ghali after just one term as Secretary General to be a personal affront. Egypt has been rallying African and other non-Western nations behind Mr. Boutros-Ghali, one of its most respected diplomats.
Finally, every meeting between Presidents Clinton and Mubarak gives occasion for Egyptian political leaders to pronounce that the more than $2 billion in annual aid that the United States gives Egypt should not be cut.
At the same time, they argue with a certain wistful tone that the aid does not mean Egypt must blindly accept American policy in the region -- rather that the two countries are equals. Egyptian analysts said Mr. Mubarak would stress this again in his meeting with Mr. Clinton on Tuesday.
"Giving aid does not give the donor countries the right to treat countries receiving aid as a master treats his slave," wrote Ibrahim Seda, editor in chief of the Government-run weekly Akbar Al Yom.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hosni Mubarak. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: ARAB LAND BANK (EGYPT) (90%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; EGYPT; EGYPT (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EGYPT-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); REFUGEES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); BOMBINGS (67%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES); MACFARQUHAR, NEIL HOSNI MUBARAK (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



621 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Buyouts Leave School Board Racing to Fill 3,000 Jobs

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
For the second consecutive summer, the Board of Education is scrambling to cope with a self-inflicted staffing headache: the departure of thousands of the most experienced teachers in New York City's public schools, who are planning to retire early under a buyout program.
The loss of nearly 10 percent of the city's 64,000 teachers within 14 months -- one of the largest turnovers since 12,000 teachers were laid off in the fiscal crisis of the 1970's -- has opened a host of vacancies, many in positions that are traditionally difficult to fill, in fields like mathematics, science and bilingual education. 
 To plug the gaps, the board has stepped up its recruiting. For the first time, it has sent letters to thousands of unemployed teachers across the state, particularly those licensed in math and science.
And it has initiated an intensive effort to woo young teachers to schools in the city's poorest neighborhoods, enlisting parents, principals and other teachers as a traveling sales force that has visited colleges in New York City and surrounding counties, and then given receptions in the applicants' honor.
So far, officials said, 2,376 teachers, 93 principals, 143 assistant principals and 134 guidance counselors have told the board they plan to retire under the program, which offers additional pension credits as an incentive. In years without a buyout program, about 1,200 teachers usually retire.
This year's departures come as the system continues to grapple with the retirement of 3,100 other veteran teachers last year.
As was the case last year, many of this year's retirees will be replaced by recent college graduates brimming with energy and enthusiasm but, in some cases, lacking state credentials.
All told, there will be more than 3,000 openings for teachers in New York City schools this fall, with the additional openings resulting from normal attrition and jobs created to handle increased enrollment, board officials said.
"When you look at the volume involved, and the turnover, it's a monumental task to see that you have the best-quality teachers serving our children," said Gary Barton, the board's deputy executive director of human resources.
To that end, the board has also expanded other recruiting strategies begun in recent years. It continues to staff a part-time office in Puerto Rico, where 300 candidates for bilingual education posts were interviewed this year. It provides a toll-free information number, (800) TEACH-NY, advertised on subways and in college newspapers across the country.
The board works with Teachers College at Columbia University to recruit Peace Corps volunteers returning to the United States. And it is committed to hiring 80 recent college graduates trained by Teach for America, a national clearinghouse for urban school districts.
In recent weeks, as many as 400 applicants a day have passed through the board's hiring office in downtown Brooklyn, and most will be offered jobs, board officials said.
The number of teachers taking the current buyout is expected to grow daily until Aug. 10, the last day to enroll. While teachers have until Aug. 31 to change their minds, only a few hundred did so last year.
While the early retirement program is intended to save money by eliminating some of the schools' highest salaries, it robs many schools of teachers who, like the veteran players on a baseball team, have served as mentors to other teachers for more than a decade. A new teachers' contract prohibits layoffs for three years.
"The people you are most likely to lose are those with the highest competency," said Frank Smith, a professor in the department of educational administration at Teachers College. "To do that across the system drains it of the expertise it needs to run quality programs."
Many of those leaving have logged more than 20,000 hours in the classroom. One is Martin Abramson, 53, who taught junior high for 33 years, 32 of them at Intermediate School 78 in Mill Basin, Brooklyn.
Tempted by the opportunity to retire two years early, with a bonus of one month of service credited to his pension for each year he worked in the system, Mr. Abramson said he needed little persuading.
"This is something I've always wanted," said Mr. Abramson, who doubted he would miss the classroom. "I want to play golf, tennis and travel, anyplace and everywhere." His first trip, he said, will be a cruise through the Panama Canal.
Filling such openings will be relative newcomers like Mike Swirsky, 24, a graduate of the University of Central Florida in Orlando.
Mr. Swirsky, a substitute teacher in District 21 on the southern tip of Brooklyn last year, learned last week that the board had tentatively approved a full-time assignment for him. He will teach elementary school in nearby District 18, provided he clears a final interview with district interviewers on Aug. 28.
"I just love teaching," Mr. Swirsky said, clutching the piece of paper confirming his appointment.
Like Mr. Swirsky, most of those newly hired already have state certification, which requires them to have passed undergraduate courses in education and worked as student teachers. But board officials concede that there will be far more openings than qualified applicants in courses like high school math and science.
In such cases, the jobs will be filled by recent college graduates who majored in those subjects but have no teaching experience. They will be hired conditionally if they promise to complete the education courses required for certification and earn master's degrees in five years, board officials said.
Working closely with them will be trainers from the board, local school districts and the United Federation of Teachers.
The board has relied on such uncertified teachers in the past but said it had pared the number to 7,500 last year, from 14,000 in 1990.
In assessing the board's replacement of experience with youth over the last two years, Lewis H. Spence, the deputy chancellor for operations, said he saw "a mixed story."
"Some proportion of the retirees have grown tired of the task and are no longer bringing to the kids what they were once able to bring," he said. "So the renewal is a good thing."
"But," he added, "learning to excite a classroom and assess students' capacity takes time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prospective teachers awaiting a placement session at the hiring office in downtown Brooklyn. As many as 400 applicants a day have passed through the center, school board officials said, and most will be offered jobs. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) (pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); TEACHERS COLLEGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEACHERS COLLEGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); CITIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); JOB CREATION (74%); SALES FORCE (69%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES MARTIN ABRAMSON (69%); MIKE SWIRSKY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



622 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: A Chastened Latin Left Puts Its Hope in Ballots

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR, July 28

 BODY:
The Communists were here, and so were the Intransigents, the Laborites, the Radicals and the Socialists. Former Sandinista, Tupamaro and Montonero guerrillas were here too, all under one roof to discuss the issue that has preoccupied the Latin American left throughout this decade: how to rebuild in a world dominated by capitalism and the United States.
A decade ago, such a conference might have taken place in Havana and been accompanied by ringing declarations of the inevitability of the triumph of socialism. 
 But when they met here this weekend, leaders of the Latin American left had to content themselves with more modest goals, and seemed more reflective than boastful.
All told, representatives of 112 parties and political groupings from more than 20 Latin American and Caribbean countries gathered here for a three-day conference that ended today. While there were many differences about which path was the most appropriate to take, there was general agreement that recent years have been full of unexpected setbacks and difficulties.
The decade opened with the startling defeat of the Sandinistas in the 1990 presidential election in Nicaragua. Since then, Fidel Castro has reluctantly embraced some capitalist measures in an effort to keep his revolution alive, the guerrilla insurgency here in El Salvador has lain down its arms, and former leftists in good standing like Fernando Henrique Cardoso in Brazil and Juan Bosch in the Dominican Republic have seen their parties come to power after adopting more centrist positions.
The left also finds itself under attack in a caustic and influential new book called "Manual of the Perfect Latin American Idiot," published in Spain four months ago.
Mocking intellectuals, liberation theologians, reflexive anti-Americanism and revolutionary nostalgia in a biting 300-page jeremiad, the book argues that the Latin American left is inflexible and has thus become archaic and largely irrelevant.
Rather than examine their own doctrines, Latin American leftists continue "looking for alibis and scapegoats" like the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the Central Intelligence Agency and multinational companies, the Peruvian novelist Mario Vargas Llosa argues in the preface to the book, which was written by his son Alvaro and Colombian and Cuban colleagues. That allows the left "always to feel in the comfortable position of victims and, in all good conscience, to eternalize its error."
At the opening ceremonies at the National Gymnasium here on Friday, there was much that the three authors would no doubt have found laughable.
Members of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front, the host party of the event, waved red flags and banners proclaiming "The Struggle Continues" as a high school marching band, with cheerleaders and majorettes with pompoms, pounded out American rock-and-roll songs from the Elvis Presley era.
Outside the arena, vendors wearing the black beret that Che Guevara made famous sold cassettes of revolutionary songs, memoirs by veterans of a half-dozen guerrilla wars and T-shirts showing Lenin in profile and bearing the slogan "Only for those in the know." But neither was there a shortage of Coca-Cola, the beverage the left regards as the embodiment of American imperialism.
Inevitably, there was much splitting of hairs over what should be contained in a statement of principles. One of the more controversial topics was whether to congratulate China, Vietnam, Laos, North Korea and Cuba for their efforts "to develop their own projects for the advancement of the socialist alternative."
If one thing was clear during three days of workshops and debate, though, it was that the Latin American left's 30-year obsession with armed struggle as a means to revolution has come to an end.
Even the leaders of the last major guerrilla insurgency in attendance here, the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity, were preaching the virtues of politics by more conventional means.
"Objectives vary according to historical circumstances," Rolando Moran, a Guatemalan guerrilla commander, said in an interview. "The armed struggle had as its objective the seizure of power by assault. For the moment, that is not feasible, so we must develop our political struggle."
In place of bullets, leaders of leftist parties expressed a commitment to reaching power through the ballot box. But to do that, they acknowledged, they must change some of their most traditional and deeply held beliefs.
"We are looking for positions that will allow us to win the support of the voter in the middle, the ordinary citizen, without losing the support of the organized left," explained Porfirio Munoz Ledo, a leading strategist of Mexico's Revolutionary Democratic Party. "It is not enough to fill the stadiums and the squares. We also have to fill the ballot box."
That, of course, implies a return to grass-roots organizing, at which the Latin American left has always excelled. Many speakers emphasized the importance of electing mayors, state governors and legislators at all levels, from city councils up to national congresses, as a necessary prelude to some day winning a presidential election.
"We need to convince society that we have the competence to govern," Luis Inacio da Silva, the Brazilian trade union leader and former presidential candidate of his country's Workers' Party, said in an interview. "People still think we only know how to march, strike and protest, so we need to show them that we can also exercise power through realistic programs adapted to the conditions of each country."
The meeting was held under the auspices of the Sao Paulo Forum, a Brazilian-sponsored regional organization.
As expected, the air rang with attacks on the experiments with the market policies that one Latin American country after another has undertaken, what in the jargon of the left is known as "neo-liberalism."
But in a reflection of Mr. da Silva's call for pragmatism, there were also workshops focusing on issues that were rarely part of the traditional discourse of the left during the years of armed struggle, like the environment, feminism and migration.
But the participants showed few signs of taking a less romantic or more skeptical view of the Cuban Revolution, whose triumph in 1959 marked the start of the fascination with armed struggle.
Though Marco Aurelio Garcia, the main organizer of the forum, argued that Cuba is not "a model or a paradigm for us," Cuban Communist Party representatives were treated with great deference, and the opening ceremonies featured a wildly applauded "Dance for Cuba" performed by a local ballet troupe.
Some former guerrillas who have already made a leap toward the center argue that the continued willingness to overlook Cuba's failures robs the left of credibility.
"It does us damage" and hands a weapon to the right, said Ana Guadalupe Martinez, a former guerrilla commander here who has now split with many of her colleagues to become a leader of the new Democratic Party, which chose not to take part in the conference.
"They are still mired in attacks on the system and arguing the innate goodness of leftist ideas," Ms. Martinez, who is now a vice president of this country's Parliament, said of the parties gathered here. "They still do not realize they have to change not only their strategy, but also their ideas if they hope to compete with the right."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buyers were snapping up the Che Guevara T-shirts this weekend at a gathering of Latin American leftists in San Salvador. There were the usual disputes, but everyone agreed that these are hard times for the left. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); BRAZIL (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); SPAIN (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); 

COMPANY: THE COMMUNISTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE COMMUNISTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); BRAZIL (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); SPAIN (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIALISM (THEORY AND PHILOSOPHY); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TRENDS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); POP & ROCK (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (61%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



623 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Deadline Nears for Renewal of Chip Pact

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 28

 BODY:
The United States and Japan have entered last-ditch negotiations to renew a semiconductor trade agreement that expires on Wednesday. If past trade talks are any guide, negotiators will squabble right up until Wednesday's deadline before reaching a vague agreement that will be interpreted as a victory by both sides.
But is all that haggling worth it? There is much less riding on the outcome this time for the microchip industries of either country than there was when the first agreement was signed in 1986, or when it was renewed in 1991. 
 The share of Japan's market held by foreign chip makers has risen from less than 9 percent in 1986, to more than 30 percent today, with American companies accounting for about two-thirds of the imports. With Japan's market now much more open than it was, a new agreement probably will not bring about big gains for American companies or force much more change in the buying habits of Japanese companies.
"We can live with it," an executive at one major Japanese electronics company said.
Similarly, American manufacturers could probably live without a new agreement.
"Most American producers will tell you today that they have a fairly decent crack at the Japanese market," said Kenneth Flamm, an economist at the Brookings Institution and author of "Mismanaged Trade?", a recently published book on international semiconductor competition.
The talks began today in Vancouver, British Columbia, at the vice ministerial level and will be joined on Tuesday by Charlene Barshefsky, the acting U.S. trade representative, and Shunpei Tsukahara, Japan's Minister of International Trade and Industry. Industry representatives from the two countries will meet simultaneously to hammer out an agreement on private-sector cooperation that could be a foundation for the Governments' agreement.
Negotiators from the two countries have been in Vancouver since late last week trying to reach a separate agreement on access to Japan's insurance market, also by a self-imposed deadline of Wednesday.
Japan argues that the existing semiconductor agreement, which set an expectation that foreign producers achieve a 20 percent share of its market, has succeeded and that government intervention in the market should now cease.
Japan not only opposes any new target for market share, it wants to eliminate collection of market share data and monitoring of the market by the two Governments. It wants to replace bilateral consultations with multilateral ones, bringing in Europe and perhaps some other chip-producing countries.
Washington is not calling for a market-share target in a new agreement, but it wants to continue data collection and periodic consultations between the two Governments over access to Japan's market.
"Our view is that the agreement has had a very positive effect but that the progress in market access and industrial cooperation is both recent and somewhat fragile," a senior U.S. trade official said.
Still, some American semiconductor executives have argued in the past that once they cross the 20 percent threshold, they would be so well enmeshed in the fabric of the Japanese electronics industry that they could not easily be pushed out again.
With the industry seemingly having little to gain or lose, analysts say, the negotiations are in large part being driven by the Governments.
President Clinton wants to help his re-election by doing something for Silicon Valley. Japanese trade officials, meanwhile, view the semiconductor agreement as one of their greatest blunders. The inclusion of the 20 percent figure led to sanctions being imposed on Japan by the United States for the first time in 1987, and the chip agreement has served as a model for subsequent American demands for measurable results in other trade agreements.
So the Japanese ministry, one of the world's most notorious practitioners of government intervention in industry, has donned the mantle of free trader to condemn the semiconductor agreement as an abhorrent example of "managed trade."
Japanese officials make no secret of the fact that they would prefer there be no new agreement at all, and at first they refused to even negotiate with Washington. But such a defiant approach could sour overall relations and lead to Japan-bashing in the Presidential campaign.
So, in an effort to allow for some of the government involvement sought by Washington, Japan has proposed creating a multilateral forum that would discuss issues like intellectual property protection, environmental matters and other things besides access to Japan's market. There would also be a separate multilateral forum involving companies. The two groups would meet jointly once a year.
Washington has not rejected those ideas but considers them diversions from the focus on increasing access to Japan's market. Ultimately the United States will probably come away with something that it can say keeps the pressure on Japanese industry to buy foreign chips and keeps the Japanese Government somehow involved. Japan will probably say that it has eliminated managed trade and has given away nothing.
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: ELECTRONICS CO LLC (69%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (96%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTER CHIPS ELECTRONICS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WRITERS (70%); INSURANCE (70%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



624 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

THE CRASH
 
Piecing Together a Crash
The front end of Trans World Airlines Flight 800 broke away and plunged toward the Atlantic Ocean while the rest of the plane continued to hurtle through the air before bursting into an enormous fireball seconds later, investigators said. Several Federal law enforcement officials said the new finding strengthened their belief that a bomb blew off part of the forward section of the plane. [Page A1.]
 
Many of the families still waiting to reclaim their loved ones are choosing to take the first painful step toward reclaiming their lives: they are going home. [B4.]
 
With the Internet, Montoursville, Pa., which lost 21 people on Flight 800, has been helped through its grief by the global village. [B4.]
 
Holes in the Safety Net
Despite the visible reassurance offered by crisply uniformed guards tending metal detectors, security experts re-examining airline safety after the explosion on T.W.A. Flight 800 say one of the weakest links may be the very people who work in the nation's airports. Dozens of workers -- hired with only the most cursory of background checks -- have access to planes waiting on airport tarmacs and, security experts say, could easily plant a bomb aboard a plane. [A1.]
 
A Push for Crucial Evidence
Some divers turned their primary attention to recovering evidence instead of human remains from Flight 800, increasing the hope that they are close to finding the first piece of physical evidence that will resolve whether the fireball in the sky was an accident or a crime. Recovery of human remains is still the priority, an investigator said, and other work will stop when remains are discovered so they can be brought to the surface. But some of the equipment on hand is better suited to bringing up metal, he said. [B5.]
 
Impact of Debris on Searchers
In a week of sweeping the Atlantic, nothing gave the crew of the Driftmaster pause more than a footlong wooden object they spotted amid floating debris from Flight 800. Bobbing in fuel-slicked waves was a whimsical bit of folk art, with the face of a bearded man chiseled into the bark on the curved side. [B5.]
 
NEW YORK
 
School Board Races to Fill Jobs
For the second consecutive summer, the Board of Education is scrambling to cope with a self-inflicted staffing headache: the departure of thousands of the most experienced teachers in New York City's public schools, who are retiring early under a buyout program. The loss of nearly 10 percent of the city's 64,000 teachers in the last 14 months has opened a host of vacancies. To plug the gaps, the board has intensified its recruiting, for the first time sending letters to thousands of unemployed teachers across the state. [B1.]
 
A Lonely Fight to Add a Term
As the City Council begins campaigning to extend the term limits that voters imposed on them and other elected city officials in 1993, it has to grapple with an uncomfortable reality: The borough presidents and other citywide elected officials are showing little inclination to press the issue actively, even though they would stand to benefit from the proposal. Political memo. [B1.]
 
Unsung Chef and His Chicken
With the decline of New York City's waterways for both commercial and recreational boat traffic, the once-busy job of city bridge raiser is not what it used to be. And Leonard C. Thomas, like a number of the 85 other city bridge tenders, has become a necessary anachronism in a water-bound city where someone still needs to raise a bridge if a boat comes by. Some bridge raisers work on a college degree. Others put together small businesses. Mr. Thomas thinks about chicken. He first called his catering company Lenny's Stuffed Chickens, but then, in a confluence of luck and publicity, he changed the name to the Chicken Man. [B1.]
 
Sanctuary Is Marred by Arson
For Jewish mothers and their newborns, the Hilltop Maternity-Convalescent Center in Kiryas Joel, N.Y. -- a Hasidic village of 12,000 ultra-Orthodox Satmars -- was a serene haven for recovery from childbirth. It was a neutral sanctuary, open to all regardless of their loyalties in the squabble dividing the village's neighborhoods. Arson has now shut it down. The crime has reduced the center to just another element in the angry, sometimes violent factionalism of Kiryas Joel. [B1.]
 
Chancellor on SUNY's Ills
Thomas A. Bartlett came out of a brief retirement to take the reins of the State University of New York. Eighteen months later, he abruptly handed the reins back. But in walking away from the leadership of the 64-campus system, Mr. Bartlett said that he was taking with him more than a few impressions about what had gone wrong. "Behind my departure were differences in perception about where the system is and where it ought to go, and about the role of the board," Mr. Bartlett said. [B2.]
 
Pregnant Girl Is Slain
A pregnant 15-year-old died after she was accidentally shot in Queens by a friend showing off his new pistol, the police said. Her 4-month-old fetus was struck in the skull and died instantly. [B3.]
 
Stock Offer For Harlem Bank
Carver Federal Savings Bank, a Harlem institution that is the country's largest black-run financial services company, is the target of a hostile stock offer to take over a sizable part of the company. The bank received an unsolicited offer to buy about one-third of the company's shares for $7.5 million, roughly 15 percent above the current stock price. [B3.]
 
NEW JERSEY
 
6 Arrests in Assault on Officers
A crowd of 200 to 300 people, many perched on tenement roofs, pelted the police in Passaic, N.J., with rocks and bottles after officers tried to arrest people at a local soccer game, the authorities said. Six people were arrested for assaulting a police officer and rioting, but no one was seriously injured, the police said. [B2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (58%); TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); METAL DETECTORS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); EVIDENCE (70%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (68%); EARLY RETIREMENT (67%); SCHOOL BOARDS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); CITIES (60%); TERM LIMITS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



625 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON RECORD: Foreign Policy;
Clinton's Three Big Objectives Include Peace Through Trade

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from an interview with President Clinton conducted on July 8 with reporters and editors of The New York Times:
 
ON HIS FOREIGN-POLICY GOALS
We had basically, you know, three big objectives. One was to finish the unfinished business of leaving the cold war behind. That's our relationship with Russia, our relationship with China, the North Korean nuclear problem and building a united Europe. 
 The second issue was dealing with the new security threats, ethnic hatreds and other kinds of internal blood-baths. That's the Middle East, Bosnia, Northern Ireland, Haiti. Terrorism, which you know there's no point in my elaborating that. You know what we've done there. Drug running, organized crime and these emerging environmental and health related transnational threats.
And the third issue is building a new structure of opportunity and peace through trade investment and commerce. And that's NAFTA, GATT, 200 trade agreements, Ron Brown's 10 emerging national initiatives, what I did with APEC leaders and what we did with the Summit of the Americas.
See, I think that the commerce thing, I think it's been wrongly positioned as are you choosing money over values. It seems to me that if America is in the center of these emerging networks, it dramatically increases our leverage to work with people for peace, for human rights and for stability in the world. . . .
 
ON CHINA
First of all, I think that it would be fair to say that my policies with regard to China have been somewhat different from what I talked about in the campaign. I believed in the campaign that the threat of revoking the M.F.N. might work to change the behavior of the Chinese, particularly on the human rights front. . . .
And after I was here and thought about it and had a chance to assess the Chinese and the Chinese leadership and the nature of the changes going on in China and the way they looked at the world and us, I concluded that that was simply not right.
I concluded that if we were to revoke M.F.N. we night cause serious short-term damage to them economically, but that they would not change their human rights policies -- if anything, they would become more repressive -- and that we would risk creating a new, I hesitate to say, cold war, but a very long-term fissure with a country that I think we still have some chance of influencing in a very positive way, to be a constructive partner in the 21st century.
And I, frankly, concluded that based on what I saw after I came here, that using M.F.N. was a blunt instrument that would have serious longterm adverse consequences and would not work in the near-term or have any impact on human rights. . . .
 
ON BOSNIA
First and foremost, we wanted to stop the slaughter and make sure that we could contain it. And there's no question in that sense that IFOR [Implementation Force, the NATO-led peacekeeping mission] has been a terrific success in reducing violence and fighting and shooting with very little rates of casualties, unrelated to direct conflict with the warring parties.
Secondly, we wanted to restore democracy in a way that maintained the federation between the Croats and the Muslims and had both a central government that involved the Serbs and a separate regional government that gave them a lot of autonomy. That will require the holding of successful elections, which will require, among other things -- and this is the big hang-up there, but not the only one, there are tensions, as you know, still between the Muslims and the Croats -- that will require that Karadzic be out of office and that Karadzic and Mladic be out of influence.
And it is a difficult thing because the IFOR mission was established with the agreement of all the NATO partners not to be a police action to go get them, but instead to be, in effect, fair to all parties in trying to secure the borders in the safety zone, secure free movement.
Then the third issue is the redevelopment issue. And that's a very important issue also for whether these people will ever be able to live in peace with one another again. You know, will there be enough grass-roots stake in the future of the peaceful and united Bosnia, so that leaders who might otherwise fall into the old habits of stirring up the passions of their constituents against one another instead know that what they're supposed to do is work out their differences? And, of course, that's what Ron Brown's last mission was about. It was really an attempt to put the power of American commerce to use for peace.
 
ON THE NEXT CENTURY
And I believe among the great security questions of the 21st century -- and there are, you know, five or six really big questions -- one of them is how will China and Russia define their greatness? Will they define their greatness in terms of their internal achievements and what kind of values and character they have, what kind of economic achievements they can have, how they can bring their culture to bear on more of their people, how they can solve their problems? How will they define their greatness in terms of their ability of force others beyond their borders to yield to their rule?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COLD WAR (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); TERRORISM (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



626 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: PC Market Remains Strong, But Slower Growth Is Predicted

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The worldwide market for personal computers maintained its strong growth in the second quarter, dispelling recent concerns about a possible slump, according to Dataquest Inc., a market research firm.
According to research to be released today, the worldwide PC market, while slowing from its record growth of 24.7 percent in 1995, is on track for about 17 to 19 percent growth in 1996. 
 Dataquest, which is based in San Jose, Calif., said that in the second quarter, the worldwide PC market grew at a 16.5 percent rate, with 15.95 million PC's shipped in the quarter, up from 13.68 million a year earlier.
 The International Business Machines Corporation, based in Armonk, N.Y., had surprising gains in the quarter, edging closer to the Compaq Computer Corporation as the top PC vendor in the world. Compaq, which is based in Houston, had 9.7 percent of the world PC market, but it lost some market share to I.B.M. Compaq had 10.4 percent of the world market in the second quarter last year.
I.B.M.'s market share jumped to 8.8 percent of the market, versus 7.7 percent a year ago. In the second quarter, I.B.M. had the strongest volume growth among the top five vendors worldwide, rising 33.6 percent in the quarter.
"Compaq went down and I.B.M. went up; they are less than a point of market share apart," said Kimball Brown, vice president and chief analyst of Dataquest's PC program. "It was a big gain in share for I.B.M."
Information from the International Data Corporation of Framingham, Mass., shows similar trends within the United States. International Data said that the United States market grew 18 percent in the second quarter, to 5.96 million units.
Compaq was the leader in the United States, with 11.8 percent of the market, shipping 702,000 units in the quarter.
Packard Bell Electronics, based in Westlake Village, Calif., was second in the United States, with 9.7 percent of the market and 580,000 units shipped in the quarter. I.B.M. trailed Packard Bell with 511,000 units in the United States, but its market share jumped to 8.6 percent from 7.6 percent a year earlier. International Data said that in the United States, sales accelerated in portable computers and commercial desktops but that consumer sales were seasonally slow, as many people waited for a wave of new home PC's.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (84%); IBMC (BRU) (84%); IBM (NYSE) (84%); IBM (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: DATAQUEST INC DATAQUEST INC (91%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (84%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DATAQUEST INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; SALES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (92%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); RETAILERS (73%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



627 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: If Immigrants Lose U.S. Aid, Local Budgets May Feel Pain

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., July 27

 BODY:
The elaborate tattoos that adorn Bech Chuom's chest are meant to protect him from wayward bullets, and he trusts the precepts he follows as a strict Buddhist to safeguard his soul.
But a decade after Mr. Chuom, 72, arrived here as a refugee from Cambodia, he depends entirely for his food and rent on a $551 monthly welfare check. Where he might turn if that aid is taken from legal immigrants under the plans to overhaul welfare now moving through Congress, he says, is a mystery. 
 "I am old," he said, speaking in Khmer through a translator. "My arms are weak. There is nothing I can do anymore. If I do not receive the help, I will starve and die."
With growing alarm, many local officials around the country are predicting another result if welfare restrictions are enacted: that thousands of immigrants like Mr. Chuom will turn to them, swamping nursing homes, local welfare agencies and financially precarious public hospitals.
In Los Angeles County alone, officials say, the added burden in local welfare and medical costs could climb to nearly $400 million a year, forcing drastic cuts in other programs.
Officials in New York City estimate that 10 percent of the people who receive Medicaid or benefits for the elderly and disabled could be cut off, reducing the amount of aid flowing into the city by more than $290 million a year.
"The impact on states with high populations of legal immigrants will be profound," said Christine C. Burch, the executive director of the National Association of Public Hospitals. "The immigrants will still get health care. But it will be the responsibility of local government or, in the case of private hospitals, it will come out of their charity budgets."
For months, immigration advocates have focused their attention and energy on a pending immigration bill that would reduce benefits to noncitizens by $5.4 billion over seven years. The magnitude of the proposed cuts in the revived welfare legislation has left them stunned.
The welfare bill passed by the House on July 18 would make most legal immigrants ineligible for Medicaid, food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, or S.S.I., the Federal program that provides cash support for poor elderly, blind and disabled people. Of the $61.6 billion that the legislation would trim from the Federal budget over seven years, about half would come from reducing aid to these immigrants.
A second version of the bill, passed by the Senate last Tuesday, would allow the states to decide whether to take Medicaid benefits away from legal immigrants already living in the United States. Like the House's version, the Senate bill would give states the option to bar those resident immigrants from some other programs as well, and it would prevent future legal immigrants from receiving most Federal benefits until they had been in the country for five years.
The Senate bill would save about $56 billion by 2002. Almost half of that would come from aid to legal immigrants, who would remain liable for Federal and state taxes.
House and Senate negotiators are expected to produce a final draft of the legislation next week. On Friday, one of the House conferees, Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, said House Republicans might be willing to compromise on several issues, including Medicaid benefits for legal immigrants.
Under either version of the bill, Medicaid coverage for emergency health care would be preserved, even for those who enter the country illegally.
Even though much of the political support for the cutbacks can be traced to public anger over the social costs of illegal immigration, the welfare bills would specifically restrict illegal immigrants only from some smaller programs, including school lunches for children and gang-prevention programs.
The cuts in benefits for legal immigrants have also been fueled by the growing belief, particularly among conservatives, that immigrants have taken unfair advantage of the system.
Despite the concern of state officials in Texas that the welfare cuts would shift much of what is now an annual $614 million Federal liability to the local authorities there, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, among others, has argued in strong support of the bill.
"I think that the vast majority of the people of Texas believe that immigrants should come to Texas with their sleeves rolled up, ready to go to work, and not with their hands out, ready to go on welfare," said Mr. Gramm, a Republican.
In an apparent reflection of the complicated politics of the issue, Gov. Pete Wilson of California, a Republican who has led a campaign to get the Federal Government to reimburse states for the costs of illegal immigration, kept largely silent about the cuts in benefits for legal immigrants until late last week.
But in an interview on Thursday, Mr. Wilson said that although he had some concerns about the local impact of the legislation, his complaints about it centered on the refusal of Congress to grant states wider authority to redesign their welfare and Medicaid programs. He called the proposed reductions in benefits to legal immigrants "the kind of step that needs to be taken to prevent Federal taxpayers from being inundated with people who come, especially late in life, and become public charges."
Population surveys have shown that in the last three decades, immigrant noncitizens have become somewhat more dependent than native-born Americans on Supplemental Security Income and Medicaid.
To some researchers, including George J. Borjas, an economist at Harvard University, that shift clearly fits into a demographic trend in which the immigrants in the newer waves from Asia and Latin America have come to the United States with less education and fewer job skills than the immigrants who preceded them, most of them European.
Other experts contend that the welfare statistics for legal immigrants are skewed by the heavy use of benefits by two groups -- refugees and the elderly -- that have grown more numerous because of changes in immigration laws since 1965.
A look at some of the lives that fall into those two categories suggests that simply withdrawing benefits from older immigrants and refugees is unlikely to jolt them from dependency.
On a quiet street in Oakland's San Antonio district, one of the city's poorest, a decrepit, two-story apartment building has become home to a small community of Cambodian refugees. The days seem to come and go with only the most tentative forays outside: shopping, visiting the doctor, getting children off to school.
After providing a fresh coat of stucco and perhaps a swimming pool in the drab, concrete patio, a hopeful suburban landlord might have given the place a name like Palm Gardens or Tudor Court. Instead, it seems exotic only for the occasional smells that waft from small kitchens and for the elderly men and women who sit chatting quietly in Khmer.
Tith Chin, 40, a former Cambodian soldier who survived a Khmer Rouge labor camp and the long trek to refuge in Thailand, said he had worked in an Atlanta bakery when he came to the United States in 1983.
He might work again, he said, if he could find a way to care for his ailing wife and three children. He said he would also like to apply for United States citizenship but did not think he spoke enough English to pass the test. Still, he could not imagine how he would make up for the loss of the $707 that he and his wife get each month under Aid to Families With Dependent Children, the main Federal program of cash assistance.
"When we first came here, the Americans said, 'We will help you,' " he said in hesitant English. "And now they want to change this law. Why?"
Unlike other legal immigrants, who are at least initially the economic responsibility of the American citizens who sponsor them, refugees are eligible for Federal benefits upon their arrival. Both the Senate and House bills would continue benefits to refugees during their first five years in the United States. The legislation would also waive the new restrictions for immigrants who have worked for a total of 10 years without drawing Federal aid and for those who have served in the military.
At Coney Island Hospital in Brooklyn, where the signs are printed in English, Spanish and Russian, the director, Howard C. Cohen, said the proposed Medicaid cutbacks would strip insurance from many of the elderly immigrants who are already his patients. He said it would also inundate the hospital with many more such patients, those turned away for other than emergency care by private hospitals and private doctors.
"We would just get dumped on," he said.
Nowhere is that kind of shift expected to be felt more acutely than in California, home to nearly 40 percent of the roughly 1.5 million legal immigrants who now get Federal benefits.
Officials said most poor and elderly immigrants would still qualify for general assistance, the locally financed aid program of last resort. In Los Angeles County, the 93,000 immigrants who could potentially seek such help would almost equal the number now on the rolls.
That problem is compounded across California by the fact that although the state government would expect to save close to $300 million of the money it now spends annually to supplement Federal S.S.I. payments to legal immigrants, the state contributes nothing to the county to help pay for general assistance.
"If no other relief is obtained, this could be very extreme," said Sandra M. Davis, the interim chief administrative officer for Los Angeles County, which faced a $1.2 billion shortfall last year.
"It would mean closing the Parks Department, closing the beaches and museums -- all administrative operations would be significantly reduced," she said. "It could throw the county into an insolvent position."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Congressional plan to overhaul welfare would deny such aid to many legal immigrants. Bech Chuom, 72, who came to the United States as a refugee from Cambodia a decade ago, depends entirely on a welfare check. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times) (pg. A12)
 
Table: "BY THE NUMBERS: Who Gets Welfare" shows the percentage of immigrants and native-born Americans who receive aid from Federal programs, based on 1990 figures. (Source: The Urban Institute) (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; STATES (US); LOCAL GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING IMMIGRATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); REFUGEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOSPITALS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); STARVATION (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (73%); AGING (73%); NURSING HOMES (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (68%); BLINDNESS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (65%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM BECH CHUOM (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



628 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: ATLANTA DAY 10 -- BASKETBALL;
Dream Team Takes Care of a Formality: Winning Group

BYLINE: By MALCOLM MORAN 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, July 28

 BODY:
Aleksandr Gomelsky, whose 1988 gold-medal team from the Soviet Union led directly to the unleashing of the Dream Team, was standing in a quiet Georgia Dome the other day and talking about an Olympic basketball competition that from the start has featured brave and passionate efforts.
"This is not bad tournament," Gomelsky said. "But only one problem. This is not competition for gold medals." 
 This reality does not seem to be a concern for the shrieking crowds that fill the dome, their tiny flashbulbs bursting from cameras pointed from another ZIP code. While the rest of the world is taking part in an intense tournament, the United States is working to make basketball a demonstration sport.
Tonight's exhibition, a crisp 102-71 United States victory over Croatia, formally secured first place in Group A at the end of the preliminary round. The Americans (5-0) will face Brazil, the fourth-place team in Group B, in a quarterfinal Tuesday.
The United States established its running game from the start, led by Mitch Richmond, who had 16 points. Charles Barkley scored 14 points on 7-of-9 shooting and had 12 rebounds. David Robinson made 4 of 5 shots and scored 13 points. Gary Payton had 7 assists without a turnover and Grant Hill had 3 of the United States' 15 steals.
After a comfortable but inconsistent start, as the Americans struggled to mesh 12 National Basketball Association All-Stars into a unit, the United States has begun to operate with the efficiency, if not the legendary status, of the group that won in Barcelona four years ago.
But the thread that connects Dream Teams past and present has to do with more than margins of victory and accomplishments on the floor. It provides a measure of how opponents are treated and how far relationships have come in four years, from the time Toni Kukoc of Croatia was considered, all at once, the future of the Chicago Bulls and a threat to their cohesiveness.
His experience in a preliminary-round game in Barcelona -- 4 points, 2-of-11 shooting -- was a result of an initiation rite supervised by Scottie Pippen and Michael Jordan that fell somewhere between ostracism and humiliation. Kukoc was Bulls property but not yet a teammate. Pippen and Jordan saw the opportunity to make points in their economic wrestling with management.
"The first time they were much more serious," Kukoc remembered. "I didn't expect him and M. J. to be so serious. Today we can have some laughs."
In the day-to-day existence of N.B.A. life, the change in the relationship has been gradual. When measured by a comparison of Olympiads, the difference is astonishing. The Lithuanian team rested injured players against the United States but Kukoc played 33 minutes today with a broken left thumb. "If I didn't play," he told reporters with a small smile, "you would say I was scared to come out against these guys."
He scored 10 points with 10 assists. This time, with the Americans in control early, Kukoc and Pippen traded 3-point baskets -- Pippen steal, Pippen 3-pointer, Kukoc 3-pointer, Pippen 3-pointer -- and the kind of verbal abuse that makes an N.B.A. season go by. "I know Scottie much better now," Kukoc said.
"I didn't know him four years ago," Pippen said. "I wanted to go out and defend him and shut him down and shut up all the critics who said he was the best European player."
 
REBOUNDS
In the other quarterfinal games on Tuesday, Yugoslavia, the undefeated Group B winner, will meet China. Lithuania will face Greece, and Croatia will oppose Australia. . . . Greece managed to improve its positioning in the medal round by losing to Australia, 103-62, earlier Sunday. By finishing third in Group B, behind Australia, Greece would not have to meet the United States until the final.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CROATIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (73%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GROUP B CLOTHING CO INC (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA; CROATIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (73%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS INJURIES (72%); 

PERSON: MORAN, MALCOLM MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



629 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Dole Reverses Stand on White House Security

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: BILLINGS, Mont., July 28

 BODY:
Bob Dole reversed himself today and said that he opposed President Clinton's decision last year to close a two-block stretch in front of the White House to guard against a catastrophic terrorist attack on the President's home.
Mr. Dole's assertion that Pennsylvania Avenue should be reopened to traffic, which he made during a brief appearance where he read a statement deploring the bombing in Centennial Olympic Park in Atlanta, came in response to a question and seemed to catch his aides by surprise. When Mr. Clinton announced last year that he was following the recommendation of the Secret Service and closing the stretch of Pennsylvania Avenue to vehicles, Mr. Dole applauded the action. Until today, he had given no public indication that he was reconsidering his position. 
 "Well, my view is they ought to open it up," Mr. Dole said during a four-minute appearance before a small group of reporters at his Washington campaign headquarters, before flying here this evening. "There ought to be other ways to protect the President."
As Mr. Dole then left the lectern, a reporter asked him whether the bombing in Atlanta might change his view, and Mr. Dole called over his shoulder: "No. It wouldn't change it."
Mr. Clinton's aides said they were surprised when they learned of Mr. Dole's new position. "It's a complete repudiation of what the Secret Service said," said George Stephanopoulos, a senior adviser to Mr. Clinton. "I'm surprised. The President and the Secret Service and the Congressional leadership all agreed that this is a prudent course of action."
Mr. Clinton ordered the stretch of Pennsylvania Avenue closed to vehicles in May 1995, converting it into a pedestrian mall. He acted on the recommendation of Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and the Secret Service.
The decision came a month after the truck bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City, which killed 168 people. But new security measures at the White House had, by then, already been under consideration because of two earlier events, involving a drunken pilot crashing a light plane into the South Lawn and a gunman firing a semiautomatic rifle at the White House.
Since then, the road between Lafayette Park and the White House continues to be closed to vehicles, pending the resolution of a debate about what to do with it. On most days, it swarms with tourists snapping comparatively unobstructed pictures of the White House, and with roller-bladers and pedestrians.
Today's events illustrated a new concern for Mr. Dole's campaign as he enters into what he had hoped would be a critical two weeks before the Republican National Convention in San Diego. Mr. Dole's aides had expected this to be a high-profile period for the candidate, when he would set the stage for his convention by taking advantage of rising interest in his selection of a Vice Presidential nominee and in the drafting of an economic plan.
But the crash of T.W.A. Flight 800, and the Olympic bombing, are threatening those prospects, as Mr. Dole faces a daily chance that anything his campaign does might be overwhelmed by a major development in either investigation. Mr. Dole's televised statement of concern about the bombing today was intended to make the best of the situation, by essentially piggy-backing on developments in Atlanta.
"We must continue searching for ways to improve our defenses against terrorism to better insure the safety of our citizens," Mr. Dole said, reading from prepared remarks. "It's equally important, however, that we remain firm in our resolve never to let the terrorists defeat the American spirit."
Mr. Dole did not offer much explanation today for his change of position about Pennsylvania Avenue, and by all accounts there was no political design behind his making his remarks on a weekend when public concern about terrorism was so pitched, as evidenced by heightened security checks on his own plane.
When Mr. Clinton decided to close off the street, Mr. Dole, then the Senate majority leader, said, "I think we did the right thing." He said then that a Secret Service briefing persuaded him that "there weren't that many options."
Mr. Dole today offered a slightly different recollection of last year's Secret Service briefing, saying "the only option they had was closing it."
"I think there is some, there are some who feel strongly the other way, that it's not going to stop terrorism," he said. "If people are determined, want to just give their lives, they're going to get through somehow."
Nelson Warfield, Mr. Dole's press secretary, explained Mr. Dole's new position by saying: "There is only one President. He was willing to acquiesce to this President's judgment on Pennsylvania Avenue. When he is President, his object will be different."
Mr. Clinton's decision to close the street was reached, by his aides' account, reluctantly, in part out of concern for the political fallout from giving the appearance that the White House was caving in to fear of terrorism. As it turned out, the fallout was stronger in the District of Columbia than nationally.
Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr., a Democrat, noted at a Congressional hearing last month, that diverting traffic around a street that had been used by 13,000 cars a day led to congestion on H, I and K Streets. At the same hearing, the director of the Secret Service argued strongly in favor of closing off traffic there.
"If you open Pennsylvania Avenue," said Eljay Bowron, the Secret Service director, "they can and at some point they will destroy the White House. It is not a matter if this will occur, but when."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole, speaking at a news conference, condemned the bombing in Atlanta on Saturday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECRET SERVICE (79%); WHITE HOUSE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WHITE HOUSE (WASHINGTON, DC); TERRORISM; TERRORISM; ELECTION ISSUES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); SHOOTINGS (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (60%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; NAGOURNEY, ADAM BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



630 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: A Cap on Taxes in Washington Draws White House Opposition

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration opposes a broad cut in Federal tax rates for District of Columbia residents, the Republicans' favorite idea for bailing out the city, a senior White House official said today.
The cuts, first proposed by Eleanor Holmes Norton, a Democrat who is the District's nonvoting delegate to Congress, would put a 15 percent cap on Federal taxes paid by city residents to entice citizens to stay in the District and encourage those who have fled to the suburbs to return. Washington's population has dropped to 554,000 from 706,000 just 20 years ago. 
 But the White House chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, said today that doling out tax breaks to cities piecemeal was poor policy.
"If you just provide an across-the-board tax cut for Washington, D.C., and we're going to go out of our way to help congressmen and senators and others that live in Washington, D.C., that just is not going to happen," Mr. Panetta said on the ABC News program, "This Week with David Brinkley."
"I mean, what happens to Detroit? What happens to New York? What happens to Boston? What happens to other cities?" Mr. Panetta said. He said that urban issues must be addressed on a national basis.
"If you're going to address urban issues, it's got to be done on an across-the-board basis."
Ms. Norton's 15 percent tax proposal, which would lower Federal taxes from the current maximum rate of 39.6 percent, is appealing to District residents but is strongly opposed by the Administration.
The cap would cost the Federal Government about $750 million a year in lost revenues. Economists also note that it would be a huge tax cut for residents earning more than $200,000.
Reached today at home, Ms. Norton accused Mr. Panetta of being ill-informed about the plan's details. "Leon doesn't know what he's talking about," Ms. Norton said in a telephone interview. "I think he's all mixed up in election-year politics.
"The District is uniquely disadvantaged compared with other cities because it has no state to recycle funds from wealthier areas, yet it is required to pay state, county and municipal costs."
After two decades of experimenting with self-rule, the city is virtually insolvent. "This city has had a hemorrhage for 15 years of people who work for a living," Mr. Gingrich said earlier this month. "They've moved out to the suburbs, and the result is the city is imploding. To have your national capital implode is a disaster."
Most other Republican leaders, including the House and Senate majority leaders, Representative Dick Armey of Texas and Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, support the tax cuts as a way to stimulate economic growth in the city and raise the confidence of its residents. But the Republican chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, which writes tax laws, Representative Bill Archer of Texas, has been cool to the idea.
The tax-cut proposal will be debated this week at a hearing of the House Government Reform and Oversight District of Columbia subcommittee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (69%); WHITE HOUSE (74%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (74%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); SUBURBS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); POLITICS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PANETTA, LEON E; SCHMITT, ERIC LEON E PANETTA (89%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (79%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



631 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1860 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON RECORD: Foreign Policy;
Bosnia Policy Shaped by U.S. Military Role

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
Two snapshots of Bill Clinton capture his decision to come to terms with the foreign policy crisis that has dominated his Presidency: Bosnia.
The first is one the White House shows with pride: a determined President Clinton telling his national security advisers at a breakfast meeting in July 1995 that the war in Bosnia "is killing the U.S. position of strength in the world." He also wanted the war off the front pages in an election year. 
 Concluding that only American leadership could prevent a crisis that might jeopardize a second term, Mr. Clinton initiated a plan that eventually ended the worst fighting in Europe since World War II.
The second snapshot is one the White House keeps hidden: a vacillating Mr. Clinton meeting with President Jacques Chirac of France just one month earlier.
Overwhelmed and confused, Mr. Clinton pressed the French President to argue against a move in Congress to arm the Muslim-led Bosnian Government and to raise money to better protect United Nations peacekeeping troops in Bosnia.
Mr. Clinton kept the French entourage and his Cabinet waiting for nearly two hours while he arranged for Mr. Chirac to meet with Bob Dole, then the Senate majority leader, and Newt Gingrich, the House Speaker. When Mr. Chirac returned home, he announced derisively that the position of leader of the free world was "vacant."
Both impulses -- determination and desperation -- were part of two and a half years of uncertain diplomacy over Bosnia. It began with Mr. Clinton's accusations that the Bush Administration was doing too little, then shifted to the view that the conflict was largely Europe's problem, and ended with peace, but a peace so fragile that it may unravel when NATO troops withdraw at the end of the year.
What pushed Mr. Clinton to act was the realization that American troops would inevitably go to Bosnia, either to help extricate United Nations peacekeeping troops in failure, or to enforce a peace. The decision is fraught with paradox but blessed with good fortune.
The paradox is that having worked so hard to keep American troops out of Bosnia, Mr. Clinton had to send 20,000 of them to the region in an election year. The good fortune is that the mission -- the result of peace agreement hammered out in November -- has been largely free of casualties.
In an interview, Mr. Clinton described the 60,000-member NATO force as "a terrific success" in preventing further bloodshed in Bosnia. Indeed, because of Bosnia, the President, who came into office with little passion for or experience in foreign affairs, has both won a modicum of respect from his peers and become more comfortable as Commander in Chief.
Just listen to the soundbites. "I'm doing the best I can," Mr. Clinton lamented in discussing Bosnia at a CNN town meeting in mid-1993. But last November, when Dan Rather, the CBS News anchor, asked whether Mr. Clinton felt comfortable about risking American lives when he had never served in the military, he finally got it right. "I am the President," he said.
Asked why the Europeans feel better about Mr. Clinton, Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy said, in an interview: "Because of Bosnia. This is the most important event for Europe. He is playing foreign policy very strongly. Because of Bosnia."
But there are those who assert that the United States stepped in too late, that the peace is holding only because of the NATO deployment, that making it last will require major outside help.
"It's wrong to say something is a success when there was massive 'ethnic cleansing' and two million people displaced," said Morton I. Abramowitz, the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "However desirable and important the peace agreement was, it's grotesque to call Bosnia a successful policy for either Bush or Clinton. The United States has suspended the war for the election; it didn't create a peace."
A Policy Quandary
Just after the 1992 election, Mr. Clinton said his Administration had two choices when it came to a crisis like Bosnia: to "come up with a decent policy and aggressively pursue it" or "ignore it for a while; wait for it to explode."
For much of his Presidency, he ignored his own advice.
In the campaign, Mr. Clinton accused President George Bush of lacking "real leadership" on Bosnia, advocated strangling the economy of Serbia and insisted that its President, Slobodan Milosevic, be brought to justice for "crimes against humanity."
Once in office, however, Mr. Clinton faced the same paralyzing problem: how to end the war without risking American lives. He began to call Bosnia a "civil war," swinging back and forth between strong proposals and stronger doubts.
Early on, Mr. Clinton refused to support the Vance-Owen plan, which would have divided Bosnia into 10 semi-autonomous provinces along ethnic lines. His stated reason was that it was wrong to impose a solution that ratified "ethnic cleansing" by the Serbs. Unstated was the fact that enforcing it would have been a military nightmare.
That impotence in coming to terms with Bosnia was underscored by Secretary of State Warren Christopher's disastrous trip to Europe in May 1993, where he presented an American plan to exempt the poorly armed Bosnian Government from the United Nations arms embargo. If the Serbs went on the offensive before enough arms arrived, NATO would attack with pinprick air strikes.
But this approach was opposed by the Europeans, who, unlike the Americans, had thousands of peacekeeping troops on the ground. Mr. Christopher went only to listen, he said afterward. Mr. Clinton did not give his Secretary of State the authority to present the plan as non-negotiable.
The President explained later that preserving good relations with the alliance was more important. "We have bigger fish to fry with the Europeans," Mr. Clinton said.
In retrospect, Mr. Christopher acknowledged that the mission was a mistake. "The way that I made the trip to Europe in May 1993 was not consistent with global leadership," he said in an interview.
The Administration was weakened by the image of an America unwilling to use its power to end the terror, rape, torture and killing that seared Bosnia. Anthony Lake, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, said in an interview that the war "became a symbol of our foreign policy as a whole."

Road to an Accord
A series of outside events in mid-1995 finally pushed Mr. Clinton to act.
Mr. Chirac, the French President, was pressing for a more aggressive policy against the Serbs while threatening to remove his peacekeeping troops. The capture of the Bosnian Muslim towns of Srebrenica and Zepa exposed the emptiness of American promises to protect the Bosnian Muslims and undermined the credibility of NATO.
By far the most important factor in transforming the political landscape came in August, when a Croatian offensive expelled the Serbs from a large chunk of territory in central Croatia known as the Krajina. Mr. Milosevic abandoned his Serbian allies in Bosnia to make peace. Ethnic separation in the region was nearly complete. A Bosnian Serb attack on Sarajevo triggered serious NATO air attacks on the Serbs.
In the United States, both the House and the Senate voted in early August, by veto-proof margins, to require the President to lift the arms embargo to help the Bosnian Government forces. Mr. Clinton had once sought that goal, but he now knew that such a step could provoke the Europeans to carry out their threat of a military withdrawal, which they could not do without American troops on the ground.
When President Clinton understood that he would have to send troops to Bosnia one way or the other, he redrew American policy, abandoning his earlier insistence on ethnic pluralism and accepting an imperfect peace as the only practical alternative.
Thus Richard C. Holbrooke, Assistant Secretary of State for European affairs, began a diplomatic marathon that produced an improvised peace agreement in Dayton, Ohio, in November. Mr. Milosevic, the man considered most responsible for starting the war, was transformed by the American side into a statesman; the Bosnia Government was persuaded that a tenuous peace was better than more war.

Redefining U.S. Interests
So what are the lessons learned? Throughout the process, most policy makers from the President on down argued against more American involvement. Revisionism has already set in.
The Defense Secretary, William J. Perry, now says the United States should have pressed NATO into action much earlier even though that would have put American lives at risk.
"The war in Bosnia was against the national interest of the United States," Mr. Perry said in an interview. "It was clearly against the interest of our European allies. We should have been prepared to use or to threaten to use military force from the beginning."
The Defense Secretary went on: "I do not see any other way of doing that except through NATO and, therefore, from the beginning we should have been prepared to use NATO. That implies to me commitment of U.S. forces."
Gen. John Shalikashvili, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and another reluctant warrior, argues that the United States should have joined its allies on the ground.
"We thought we could somehow let them be on the ground and we would be in the air and that would be enough," he said in an interview. "There is a very important lesson that you cannot be in an alliance with nations and somehow step back from a leadership position."
Administration officials concede that the peace agreement has serious flaws, and no one is rushing to arrest those who have been indicted on war crime charges, particularly Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb political leader, and Gen. Ratko Mladic, the military commander. Even Mr. Clinton calls that situation "the big hang-up there." The Administration is notably silent on the question of ever indicting President Milosevic.
As for elections in Bosnia, scheduled for September, severe restrictions on the freedom of movement and expression -- and the failure to insure the return of refugees -- will make it difficult for the vote to be free and fair. The most likely outcome is that hard-line Serbian and Croatian nationalists will retain power in areas they control.
Yet Mr. Clinton said in the interview, "I still believe we'll be able to have elections in September, and I believe we can have elections that will be successful." He did not define what he meant by success.
Most worrisome is that although the peace agreement preserves Bosnia on paper, it is essentially a partitioned country.
"At the end of the day, the peace won't be perfect," NATO Secretary General, Javier Solana of Spain, said in an interview. "The forces of separation are still too strong."
That is not the Clinton Administration's fault, Mr. Lake insisted. "I don't think you can use American or NATO or other forces to change human hearts," he said. "That is not something outsiders can do."
So was Bosnia an American foreign policy success?
"Too early to say," Mr. Lake said. "We won't know that for some years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Washington faced growing pressure in August 1995 to find a solution to end the Bosnian war as Serbian forces continued their shelling of Sarajevo, above. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SCIOLINO, ELAINE BILL CLINTON (94%); JACQUES CHIRAC (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



632 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4659 words

HEADLINE: On World Stage, Many Lessons for Clinton

SERIES: THE CLINTON RECORD: Foreign Policy --Second of seven articles.

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
Every evening, President Clinton, the baby boomer who came to office vowing not to be consumed by problems beyond America's shores, receives a brief personal note from Warren Christopher, his cautious, 71-year-old Secretary of State and veteran of four Democratic administrations.
At first the notes were tutorial, guiding a President who had accused George Bush of paying too much attention to foreign affairs. Candidate Clinton had argued that human rights in China were more important than trade, that the fratricide in Bosnia was Europe's problem, that the United States could not and should not play the role of world policeman. 
 Today, Mr. Christopher's notes are more practical, an effort to provide early warning to a President who now regards his foreign policy performance as a highlight of the last two years. With clear if fragile progress in Russia, Haiti, Bosnia, the Middle East and Northern Ireland -- and success in saving Mexico from bankruptcy and forcing modest change in the trade policies of Japan and China -- Mr. Clinton is becoming more comfortable as deal-maker and statesman.
The idealism of the 1992 campaign has been replaced with a pragmatic, better-organized and more politically astute use of power, more reminiscent of his Republican predecessor than of Jimmy Carter, the last Democratic President. But it has been an odd journey, with a chaotic beginning and extraordinary lows. Mr. Clinton's first year was symbolized by searing images of weakness: an American soldier's corpse being dragged through the streets of Mogadishu, Somalia, and a United States military transport ship being turned around in Haiti by a rowdy rent-a-mob on the docks of Port-au-Prince. At the end of 1994, Mr. Christopher, tired and dispirited, offered to resign.
Mr. Clinton seemed to be floundering, reacting rather than imposing American leadership on world events. The President was not ready or able to articulate the structure of American foreign policy or explain its themes to a confused global constituency.
Neither were his aides. There was the publicity-shy national security adviser, Anthony Lake, and the lawyerly Mr. Christopher, who managed rather than led. The strongest voices belonged to the aggressive Mickey Kantor, the trade representative, and Robert E. Rubin, the cool investment banker who led the National Economic Council before becoming Treasury Secretary. This configuration was no accident in an Administration that has made domestic economic concerns central to foreign policy.
Mr. Clinton has gradually become his own foreign policy spokesman. He has reversed himself on China, put American troops in Bosnia and discovered the value of quiet engagement and decisive leadership from the only superpower in a post-Soviet world.
The man who argued that the United Nations should take a larger role in international security is now preaching American interests and pushing for a new Secretary General at the United Nations.
The man who tried to rebuild Somalia refused to commit forces to halt the massacres in Rwanda, saying no American interests were at stake.
The Oxford student who labored to avoid military service in Vietnam has ordered American troops to the Iraqi border, Haiti and Bosnia and dispatched two aircraft carriers off Taiwan as a blunt warning to China.
Mr. Clinton is unashamed of his learning curve, however steep. He admits to an early mistake on China, and came to believe that revoking Beijing's trading status with the United States would do nothing to improve its record on human rights or enhance Asian stability.
"After I was here and thought about it and had a chance to assess the Chinese and the Chinese leadership and the nature of the changes going on in China and the way they looked at the world and us, I concluded that that was simply not right," Mr. Clinton said in an interview earlier this month. Revoking China's most-favored-nation status "would not change their human rights policies -- if anything, they would become more repressive."
One of Mr. Clinton's proudest achievements is his success in linking American foreign policy with the domestic economy and jobs.
"Something I need to take on even more," Mr. Clinton said, "is trying to figure out a way to make the American people believe, not just episodically but instinctively, that there's no longer an easy dividing line between foreign policy and domestic policy, that the world we're living in doesn't permit us that luxury any more."
Just as Richard Nixon elevated the National Security Council as a counterweight to the State Department and the Pentagon, Mr. Clinton created the National Economic Council to coordinate domestic and foreign economic policy. In the biggest policy arguments -- confronting China on its piracy of intellectual property, securing financing for Russia and Mexico and balancing trade and security in Japan -- the Departments of Treasury and Commerce and the trade representative have been major players.
"Trade and international economics have joined the foreign-policy table," Mr. Kantor said. "Clinton is the first President to really make trade the bridge between foreign and domestic policy."
Some of the President's successes arose from this new focus: overruling Congress to save Mexico from financial collapse (and thus Texas and California from a deluge of illegal immigrants); pressing Japan more aggressively to open its markets; winning passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement. And he has brought energy to global concerns that transcend blocs and borders: terrorism, organized crime and nuclear proliferation.
"On foreign policy," an Administration official said, "we've gone from woeful chaos to what I think you have to concede is competence. We've learned to work with the President, and the President has learned the subject. There's organization to the process and some reasonable longer-term goals."
Americans seem more willing now to give Mr. Clinton the benefit of the doubt. According to a New York Times poll taken in June, with an accuracy of plus or minus three percentage points, half of the 1,121 respondents approved of his handling of foreign policy, and 54 percent said he had achieved the right balance between foreign and domestic policy. Asked for the President's "greatest achievement," the same number of Americans chose foreign policy as chose the economy -- 16 percent. And 55 percent approve his performance as Commander in Chief in the survey.
It was in China that this complex brew of trade, regional security and human rights all came together.

China Policy
After Rough Start, U.S. Turns Corner
When Bill Clinton ran for President in 1992, he accused George Bush of "coddling dictators" to promote trade with China. But now Mr. Clinton concedes that he did not understand the complexity of America's relationship with the world's most populous nation -- and he paid a price. It took his Administration nearly three years to undo the damage wrought by his reversals and confused agenda. Although White House officials today cite the China experience as a prime example of Mr. Clinton's maturation in foreign policy, many allies were unnerved by his angry confrontations over trade, Taiwan and nuclear proliferation.
In his first year, Mr. Clinton was forced into full retreat from his campaign position that revoking China's trading status was the best way to help China's dissidents. He saw the dangers of using what he now calls "a blunt instrument" once he focused on the consequences -- abandoning America's position in the world's biggest emerging market, losing contacts with a broad spectrum of Chinese society and slowing the spread of computer technologies, like the Internet, that could undercut the Communist Government's political control.
President Clinton also worried about the cost of constant friction with an emerging superpower and the risk another cold war -- or "a very long-term fissure with a country that I think we still have some chance of influencing in a very positive way to be a constructive partner in the 21st century."
But the reversal of policy on human rights was just the beginning of his time of troubles. The Administration seemed to bounce around aimlessly, waiting vainly for cooperation from the Chinese leadership. It had too many spokesmen on China -- partly because Mr. Christopher had ceded the making of China policy to others. With little coordination at the White House, they all defined America's goals in different terms.
Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, who was killed a plane crash in April, had traveled to Beijing and brought along executives from companies like Boeing and General Motors, declaring that China was the center of "commercial diplomacy."
The State Department official overseeing human rights, John Shattuck, would pointedly meet with dissidents -- once within days of Mr. Christopher's arrival in March 1994, angering the Chinese enough to poison Mr. Christopher's only visit.
Then Charlene Barshefsky, Mr. Kantor's deputy and now his successor, would arrive, breathing fire. Ms. Barshefsky went to Beijing eight times on one issue alone: Chinese piracy of American movies, music and software, a problem that cost American industry billions of dollars, especially in important states like California. Twice in a year -- first to win an agreement and then to compel its enforcement -- Mr. Clinton had to threaten to cut off billions of dollars of China's exports to persuade Beijing to play by global rules.
"It was a cacophony, not an orchestra," said one senior Administration official. "There was no sense of setting priorities, signaling the Chinese about what was truly important."
Stanley Roth, who headed Asia issues at the National Security Council until January and who still retains an influence on policy, said he believed that the Chinese decided early on that "this was the unfriendliest Administration they had faced since before Nixon opened China." Chinese leaders appeared to be biding their time, looking for a victory by Bob Dole in November.
Matters worsened when Mr. Clinton, under pressure from Congress, allowed Lee Teng-hui, Taiwan's President, to make a private visit to Cornell University for a reunion in June 1995. The Chinese, thinking that Mr. Christopher had assured them that no such visit would be allowed under the "one-China" policy, were outraged. Relations went into deep freeze, and 1996 seemed crammed with potential conflicts -- over trade, nuclear proliferation, a United Nations human rights conference and the Taiwan elections.
The looming crisis brought about a measure of policy coherence when Mr. Lake and the White House realized that they had to manage the relationship with greater care, and Mr. Lake began having regular breakfasts with independent China scholars.
"We knew there were a lot of boulders in the river," said Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Lake's deputy. "The trick was not to let them overwhelm us at once."
While Mr. Kantor was restrained from pressing the piracy issue too quickly and human rights were played down, President Clinton took a risk many of his advisers thought he would not have tried earlier, sending aircraft carriers to warn China to stop harassing Taiwan during its elections in March. But faced with ambiguous evidence that China had shipped nuclear components to Pakistan, Mr. Clinton accepted Chinese promises not to do it again and did not impose sanctions.
China's violations of its agreements on intellectual piracy were too obvious to ignore, however, and here Washington decided that its credibility was truly at stake. The Administration vowed to impose sanctions unless China cracked down on the pirates who brazenly copied compact disks and CD-ROM's.
The showdown seemed to restore some respect for Mr. Clinton, and at the end of the negotiations President Jiang Zemin invited Ms. Barshefsky over to his compound to signal his interest in improving relations. Ms. Barshefsky said she told him that "both countries tended to go out of their way to define their interests in as mutually incompatible ways as possible, and we both had to change."
As part of the White House's belated decision to seize control of China policy, Mr. Lake set up his own channel of discussions with his Chinese counterpart.
"We're working to build an atmosphere of mutual respect and confidence, within which we can pursue issues of interest to us and to them." Mr. Lake said after visiting China this month. Mr. Christopher is to return in November to arrange a possible summit meeting.
But the question remains whether China, in the midst of its power struggle, is ready to change beyond the trade arena, and only when facing costly sanctions. For his part, Mr. Clinton has yet to define a strategic goal for the relationship; his success so far has been to dig himself out of a hole largely of his own making.

Economic Policy
Pressure on Trade Can Irritate Allies
The biggest change Mr. Clinton has wrought, and one of the most annoying to America's trading partners, is the use of America's power to bolster its economic growth -- even if do so risks destabilizing traditional alliances. The foreign-policy establishment calls that short-sighted; Mr. Clinton's aides call it realistic.
"Twenty years ago, we were willing to enter non-reciprocal agreements," Ms. Barshefsky said. "We had economic and political leeway to place other priorities well ahead of trade. Now, we expect foreign countries to provide the same level of access to us that we have provided to the world. You get what you give."
Mr. Clinton has engaged in far more brinkmanship over market openings than his predecessors. On the campaign, he boasts about the results and avoids mention of the deals that failed. Over all, exports are soaring and the trade deficit with Japan is shrinking. And Mr. Kantor's biggest confrontation with Tokyo -- to force it to open more American car dealerships and purchase American car parts -- has proven a surprising success.
The strategy has been coordinated inside the National Economic Council, created by Mr. Lake and Mr. Rubin over a cup of coffee in late 1992. Its top aides -- "well-balanced schizophrenics," Mr. Lake calls them -- report both to Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the council's director, and to Mr. Lake.
"The big change now is that the economic component of any problem gets on the table at the same time as other issues," Mr. Rubin said. But the Administration has learned that an unrelenting focus on trade can grind away at the trust that allies built up when facing a common Soviet enemy, and recently that has forced some retreats.
Tackling Japan, Mr. Clinton thought he could work around the intransigent Japanese bureaucracy and go over their heads to the reform-minded politicians he had embraced on his first Tokyo trip in 1993. But the reformers proved powerless, and by 1996, the White House was relieved by the return of the ossified Liberal Democratic Party, which was obstructionist but at least knew how to deal.
But two years of relentless pressure had taken its toll on the military alliance. To Japan's delight, when Mr. Clinton next visited this spring, he was forced to focus on security. The confrontation with China had left the region uneasy, and the rape of an Okinawan girl by American servicemen was undermining America's most important military presence in the Pacific.
Mr. Clinton also discovered that maintaining the global economy can be costly. Mexico's peso crisis in late 1994 raised the specter of a run on "emerging markets," which could devastate the fastest-growing consumers of American goods. That, combined with fears of a bigger flood of illegal immigrants, led Mr. Clinton to overrule Congressional objections and lend $12.5 billion, despite Mexican corruption and drug trafficking. The risk paid off: Mexico stuck to a stringent fiscal and monetary policy, triggering joblessness at home but persuading private investors to return. Last week, to the White House's relief, Mexico announced that it was ready to pay back three-quarters of the debt, years early.
Today Mr. Clinton counts his decision to save Mexico as one of his biggest triumphs, despite polling data that showed little support for doing so. Mr. Rubin, the plan's architect, is relieved. "If this had failed," he said, "we'd be facing hearings on the Hill every day."
Some question whether Mr. Clinton's focus on trade and exports will be viewed by historians as an indulgence while the country faced no direct security threat. Mr. Christopher, who served President Kennedy as a textile negotiator, does not think so.
"We've passed the point where we can sustain prosperity on sales just within the United States," he argued. American business has understood there is no turning back, but "it took a long time for Government institutions to cross that barrier with comfort."

Military Policy
Threat or Use of Force Can Bring Success
As America's first President born after World War II, and one who like many in his generation avoided the war in Vietnam, Mr. Clinton was always going to have a hard time with the military.
But Clinton officials give an odd answer when asked about early obstacles to an effective foreign policy: Gen. Colin L. Powell, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a former national security adviser and a Bush holdover. The White House deferred to the General, a national political icon.
But he demanded such an overwhelming commitment of force before agreeing to support any use of American troops that the very idea became unpalatable.
"You cannot exaggerate the influence, both military and political, that Colin Powell had on the early Administration," a senior official said. "Everything we did effectively over the following two or three years, we did without the shadow of Colin Powell and the so-called Powell doctrine."
That doctrine calls for a massive and decisive use of American force in pursuit of clear political objectives involving vital American interests -- as was the case in the Persian Gulf war -- so that success is virtually guaranteed, casualties are minimal and the image of the armed forces is protected.
During his nine months under Mr. Clinton, General Powell, who had helped plan the Somalia mission, opposed using limited American military force in Bosnia. He argued against air strikes alone and wanted no fewer than 300,000 American troops, which was "sufficient to kill off the whole idea," an official said.
Madeleine K. Albright, the United States delegate to the United Nations, said: "There was this doctrine that you'd be dealing with a crazy dictator with six months to prepare and the earth was flat and you'd use overwhelming force and somebody else would pay. But those circumstances don't come along very often."
The White House credits Mr. Powell's successor, Gen. John Shalikashvili, for embracing the carefully limited use of American military might.
"A President must have in his tool bag, in addition to the diplomatic tools, the economic tools, also the tool of military power to protect American interests, even if those interests are not vital," General Shalikashvili said.
"We do not have the luxury of standing back and saying, 'You Europeans take care of that' and if something happens in Africa, 'You in Africa take care of it.' We still save ourselves for this major confrontation with an enemy who was rapidly disappearing before our eyes, and the rest of the world didn't buy into it. We learned that in Bosnia."
In North Korea and Haiti, Mr. Clinton learned that the modest use of force, as well as a credible threat to use it, could work wonders. In 1994, faced with North Korea's determination to continue its nuclear-weapons program, he threatened economic sanctions despite the North Korean declaration that sanctions would mean war. North Korea negotiated, freezing its program in return for aid from United States, Japan and South Korea to build conventional reactors that would not produce bomb-grade material.

Foreign Policy
White House Defining Vital U.S. Interests
Mr. Clinton met the challenges of world crises unevenly, with harsh lessons learned. Time and again, he had to decide what constituted a vital American interest, and whether the burden of leadership -- and its cost -- could be shared or avoided. In essence, Mr. Clinton concluded that the world is more distressed when the United States fails to lead than when it does.
From the beginning, he recognized a vital interest in the relationship with a fragile Russia as well as the other states of the former Soviet Union, especially those like Ukraine, which inherited nuclear weapons. The United States led the West in a program of aid and technical help to promote democracy and a market economy.
Early idealism about partnership, however, faded as Russia's transition from Communism proved less successful than Mr. Clinton hoped. American policy, while it supported Mr. Yeltsin against a resurgent Communist Party, grew harder, emphasizing American security interests and favoring NATO expansion despite Moscow's opposition. And a Republican Congress sharply cut aid.
In the Middle East, Mr. Clinton pushed hard for a comprehensive peace and presided over the reconciliation of Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization. But neither Israel nor Syria proved willing to take the risks required for a larger peace.
The assassination of Yitzhak Rabin, Israel's Prime Minister, was a huge setback for Washington's aspirations. In subsequent elections, Israelis rejected Mr. Clinton's favorite, Shimon Peres, for Benjamin Netanyahu, who puts security before peace. Washington is now simply trying to insure that Israel lives up to its previous commitments.
On Bosnia, Mr. Clinton temporized, and his early actions, including a disastrous visit to the European allies by Mr. Christopher in May 1993, became an object lesson in how not to exercise American leadership. When Mr. Christopher returned home empty-handed after merely discussing, rather than pressing, Mr. Clinton's case for a new policy, it only reinforced the perception that while the new President might talk about "multilateralism" to manage post-Soviet security, he did not know the first thing about how to do it.
The trip "was not consistent with global leadership," Mr. Christopher now says. "We have learned the way we must conduct foreign policy," he said, "and that is to be very purposeful, to be determined with United States leadership." Mr. Clinton finally exercised that leadership last summer, after it became clear that he would have to send American troops one way or another. When he finally bit the bullet on Bosnia, it helped redefine his Presidency.
A senior official described Mr. Lake's pleasure when he made his own Bosnia trip to Europe last August. "You can't imagine the look on people's faces when you say, 'The President wants it done,' " the official described Mr. Lake's recounting. "You have to say, 'This is what we're going to do.' "
Early on, Mr. Christopher's own Under Secretary had argued that America was too poor to lead, while Mrs. Albright, trying to solve the same disparity between global goals and shrinking American means, asserted a doctrine of "assertive multilateralism," which seemed to make the United Nations the only repository of legitimacy for the use of force.
American officials say that the problems in Somalia, Haiti and Bosnia were left on their plate by the departing Bush Administration, but Clinton officials added their own dash of chaos and inflated goals.
The blistering experience in Somalia, where 18 Army Rangers were killed as they hunted the leader of one faction in October 1993, has forced Mr. Clinton to shy away from seeking to apprehend the Bosnia Serb leaders Radovan Karadzic and Ratko Mladic so they can stand trial on war crime charges. President Clinton also refused to intervene in an arguably more horrible case of genocide in Rwanda, because there was no clear American interest involved.
In Rwanda, where America refused to deploy troops to stop a spasm of violence, an official said, "the task was too big and the interest involved was too small."
Haiti, however, was closer to home. After an embargo failed to persuade the military junta to step aside, Mr. Clinton decided in October 1994 to use American troops. With a United Nations resolution authorizing the action, the intervention provided both a success and a model. As peacemakers, American troops soon handed off the operation to United Nations peacekeepers.

Policy Objectives
Building a Framework For Peace and Trade
President Clinton has discovered that foreign policy affords freedom of action, and that the American President has the biggest bully pulpit in the world. But he makes no real effort to provide a strategic vision, a task dismissed jokingly by a senior official as "stratocrap and globaloney." Instead, in the interview, Mr. Clinton talked of "three big objectives." The first is "to finish the unfinished business of leaving the cold war behind," including relations with Russia, China and North Korea as well as "European unity," by which he presumably meant NATO expansion.
Second, he said, is "dealing with the new security threats, ethnic hatreds and other kinds of internal blood-baths," in which he included the Middle East, Bosnia, Northern Ireland and Haiti, as well as the new "transnational" threats that include terrorism, crime, nuclear proliferation and environmental hazards.
Third, he said, is "building a new structure of opportunity and peace through trade, investment and commerce," in which he included trade agreements with individual nations and larger accords like the North American Trade Agreement.
But Mr. Clinton has found little international consensus on his broadest goals. While cooperation has improved on terrorism and crime, there are enormous divisions with Europe over the wisdom of isolating hostile nations like Iran, Iraq and Libya.
The President's regular resort to the threat of sanctions has irritated traditional allies, most recently over his election-year decision to demonize Cuba. Reversing policy, he signed the Helms-Burton bill, which punishes foreign companies for investing in Cuba. Another bill does the same with Libya and Iran. "This is bullying," said Lloyd Axworthy, the Canadian Foreign Minister. "But in America you call it global leadership."
In private, some top advisers worry that the cumulative effect hurts Washington's ability to rally its allies and undercuts its reputation as a reliable trading partner. But a senior White House official shrugs the problem off.
"The whole bureaucracy hates this stuff, but we're out front fighting terrorism," the official said. "It breaks the rules, but it works, and the President says, 'We're doing it.' In the end, they'll get over it. We're America, and they'll get over it."
Mr. Lake urged a farmer's patience. "You don't solve foreign societies," he said. "You plant, you plow, you seed, you water, you weed and then you harvest." He admits the Clinton team has gotten better at driving the tractor. "You just have to keep working," he said. "If you don't learn from experience, you're not concentrating."
Mr. Clinton remains eager to keep talking, in the conviction that seems to run through his remarkable political life that given enough time, he can win any argument. He wants to break down "the wall in our minds" between domestic and foreign policy. "I try to see these connections, and I think that slowly I'm being able to communicate to the American people in a way that resonates with them."
Next: Welfare
 
The Clinton Record --
SUNDAY -- The overview.
TODAY -- Foreign policy.
TUESDAY -- Welfare.
WEDNESDAY -- Health care.
THURSDAY -- The environment.
FRIDAY -- Criminal justice.
SATURDAY -- The economy.


GRAPHIC: At the White House on Sept. 13, 1993, Mr. Clinton presided over the signing of a peace accord by Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Yasir Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); HUMILIATION -- The Clinton Administration's first year in foreign policy was stained in Somalia, where an American soldier's corpse was dragged through the street, above, and in Haiti, left, where a military transport was turned away. (Paul Watson/Toronto Star) (pg. 14)
 
Graphs: "The New York Times Toll" provides results of foreign policy questions put to those who were polled. (pgs. A14 & A15) 
Photos: President Clinton, with Anthony Lake, his national security adviser, has gradually become his own foreign policy spokesman. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A1); TRIUMPH -- President Clinton greeting soldiers at Fort Polk, La., above, in March as part of ceremonies recognizing their effort in helping to restore democracy in Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (94%); CHINA (93%); SOMALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (73%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (94%); CHINA (93%); SOMALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE; CARTER, JIMMY; ERLANGER, STEVEN; SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (94%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



633 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: BOMB AT THE OLYMPICS;
Bombing Victim's Home Is Burglarized

BYLINE: ALBANY, Ga., July 28, AP 

 BODY:
One day after Alice Hawthorne was killed by the bomb in Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park, someone burglarized her home, police said today.
"As far as I know, no arrests were made," said Cpl. Derrick Reed of the Albany Police Department. He said the break-in was discovered on a routine patrol. 
 A neighbor nailed a piece of plywood over the broken front window near the front door and the Police Department stationed an officer inside the house to protect it.
The window is hidden from the street by shrubs. A bent window screen and shattered glass littered the area.
Cpl. Ryan Ward, who discovered the broken window, said a neighbor had told the police that a VCR and television were missing. Another neighbor reported a suspicious white Jeep Cherokee in the area that morning.
Neighbors, still in shock from the death of Mrs. Hawthorne, a community leader and entrepreneur, called the burglary a contemptible act.
"It was a sick person that killed her and it had to be a sick person who broke into her house," said one resident, J. D. Roberts.
Another neighbor, Pat Horton, said she believed the robbers knew the house was unoccupied because of news reports of Mrs. Hawthorne's death.
Mrs. Hawthorne's husband, John Hawthorne, rushed to Atlanta on Saturday morning when he learned his wife had been killed and her 14-year-old daughter, Fallon Stubbs, was injured by the bomb.
The Hawthorne's lived in a middle-class neighborhood. She was a sales representative for the local cable television company and the part-owner of a strip mall. John Hawthorne works for the City of Albany's Community and Economic Development Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ALBANY POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALBANY POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); CENTENNIAL OLYMPIC PARK (ATLANTA, GA); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM BOMBINGS (92%); OLYMPICS (90%); BURGLARY (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TERRORISM (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: HAWTHORNE, ALICE ALICE HAWTHORNE (93%); JOHN HAWTHORNE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996



634 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Drop Sharply Ahead of Data

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dropped sharply yesterday as investors braced for a blizzard of new economic data this week.
By the close of the New York cash market the 30-year benchmark Treasury bond was down 28/32, to a price of 86 19/32; the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, shot to 7.09 percent, from 7.01 percent on Friday. 
 Josh Stiles, senior bond strategist at IDEA, a British financial consulting firm, said that one reason for early jitters in the market was comments by Alfred Broaddus, president of the Richmond Federal Reserve. In remarks reported yesterday, Mr. Broaddus pointed to tentative signs of wage pressures and the possibility of a second-half slowdown.
"Because he is known as an inflation hawk, and because he is a nonvoting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, the combination of the two diluted much of what he did say," Mr. Stiles said. Mr. Broaddus was in Asheville, N.C., speaking to a conference on farm credit. The committee is the rate-setting arm of the Federal Reserve.
Mr. Stiles said the market was likely more concerned about what economic data to be released later this week would show. "I get the feeling from some market participants that they are expecting the bigger risks will come with the National Association of Purchasing Management and payroll numbers," he said. "The employment-cost index will set the tone of trade going into Thursday. There are a lot of bullets to dodge this week."
Mr. Stiles was referring to three economic reports this week that many analysts are convinced will be pivotal when Fed policy makers decide whether to tighten credit to fend off inflation.
Mr. Stiles said that the market was likely to further discount prices for the added risks it faced, saying that he believed it was probably better to approach this week's release of economic data down at a price of 108 on the September bond futures contract, than above at a price of 109. "It gives the market some room to move to the upside," he said.
By the close of futures trading yesterday, the September bond contract had settled at a price of 107 27/32, after opening the day at 108 8/32.
Bill Gamba, senior vice president and head of government bond trading at Cowen & Company, said that no one wanted to make big bets in the face of the coming data. "Tomorrow's second-quarter employment-cost index is a number what would normally not be a market mover," he said, "but because of the increase in hourly earnings for the June employment data, it will be watched a little more closely than normal."
Mr. Gamba also noted that the quarterly refunding announcement by the Treasury would add to the pressure in the market.
Last quarter, the employment-cost index -- the measure of total compensation for employment, including pensions and health benefits -- rose seven-tenths of 1 percent; the market now looks for the index to rise strongly, in a range of nine-tenths of 1 percent to a full percent higher.
Mr. Gamba said that if the rise in nonfarm payrolls exceeded 250,000, there could be a fairly substantial selloff, which would push the yield on the long bond up to 7.15 percent or 7.20 percent.
Traders said the results of the Treasury's regular weekly bill auction yesterday were a bit soft, with the average rate up six basis points, to 5.20 percent, for a three-month maturity and four basis points, to 5.34 percent, for the six-month. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.686	97.300	Discounted Rate	5.20%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.34%	5.57%	High Price	98.691	97.310	Discounted Rate	5.18%	5.32%	Coupon Yield	5.32%	5.54%	Low Price	98.683	97.300	Discounted Rate	5.21%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.35%	5.57%	Accepted at low price	24%	11%	Total applied for	$42,562,166	$50,155,096	Accepted	$13,044,666	$13,158,411	Noncompetitive	$1,375,541	$1,338,536	

Both issues are dated Aug. 1, 1996. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 31, 1996, and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 30, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, from mid-April through the end of July. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (62%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (62%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FUTURES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT J ALFRED BROADDUS JR (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



635 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Still Avoid Inner-City Lending

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Prof. George Benston of Emory University says he knows "of no studies showing that inner cities are underserved by lenders" (Economic Scene, July 25). But his hometown newspaper won a Pulitzer Prize a decade ago for a series that uncovered how underserved inner-city neighborhoods were by lenders in Atlanta. Related studies have been conducted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, regulators and research entities that confirm that minority borrowers receive loan rejections disproportionately, despite incomes and credit histories comparable to nonminority counterparts. 
 Most analysts expect 1997 grades of banks by regulators will show disparate business lending activity with larger gaps than in previous studies, which focused on mortgage lending. Even enlightened bankers admit that providing loans to start-up businesses remains a challenge.
The partnerships that the Department of Housing and Urban Development seeks to catalyze in its new program supporting Community and Individual Investment Corporations feature banks, local government and neighborhood loan fund operators working to insure that pre-loan and post-loan managerial assistance is provided to emerging companies. Last year, the Committee for Economic Development, a policy group financed by business, issued a report urging financial and technical assistance for distressed areas, using partnerships with community development corporations. Will these efforts pose a threat to the pawnshops that Prof. George Kaufman, whom you quote, worries are undercut by Government-aided loan programs?
It is unfortunate to read of urgings for laissez-faire policy when partnerships between public, private and community sectors are making small-business growth in inner-city neighborhoods as high a priority as affordable housing has been in comparable partnerships in the last 10 years.
 
MARCUS WEISS
Boston, July 26, 1996
 
The writer is a community development consultant to HUD and the Commerce Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (83%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; URBAN AREAS; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STARTUPS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (57%); 

PERSON: BENTSON, GEORGE (PROF); WEISS, MARCUS GEORGE BENSTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



636 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Steady as Traders Await Week's Economic Data

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar was little changed yesterday despite news of a decline in Japanese industrial production and comments from a Bundesbank official that German interest rates could be cut further.
Currency traders were awaiting a number of economic reports this week that might point to higher interest rates in the United States. If reports on second-quarter labor costs today and July employment on Friday show quickening inflation and robust growth, the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates at its Aug. 20 policy meeting, traders said. Higher rates often help the dollar by making bank deposits in the United States more attractive. 
 "The best thing for the dollar would be good signs of growth," said Richard Koss, currency strategist at MFR Inc., a money management and consulting firm.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar fell to 108.14 Japanese yen from 108.37 on Friday. The dollar traded at 1.4802 German marks, down from 1.4822 marks. The British pound rose to $1.5585, from $1.5545.
The dollar was also under pressure yesterday, as it was two weeks ago, from declines in American stock and bond markets.
"There is a general air of concern about the asset markets," said Kevin Raphael, manager of foreign exchange at Rabobank Nederland. "If the stock market stabilizes, the dollar can rise."
While traders awaited indications of the next move on United States interest rates, there were signs that Japanese and German rates would remain steady or head lower.
Japan reported yesterday that industrial production fell a larger-than-expected 3.9 percent in June.
"That put off the notion of a near-term hike in interest rates, which is what keeps hurting the dollar," Mr. Koss of MFR said.
In Germany, a Bundesbank council member, Franz-Christophe Zeitler, said German money-market rates could be cut further if money supply expansion slowed toward the central bank's target. Many analysts had expected the Bundesbank to lower its key 14-day repurchase rate at its council meeting on Thursday. When it refrained, the mark gained.
"The market was unimpressed with Zeitler's statements," Mr. Koss said. "They had every opportunity to cut rates last week, and they didn't." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (67%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); BONDS (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

PERSON: RICHARD KOSS (88%); FRANZ-CHRISTOPHE ZEITLER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



637 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: COMAPNY REPORTS;
3M Earnings Climbed 7.9% in 2d Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, July 29

 BODY:
The Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company said today that its second-quarter earnings rose 7.9 percent, bolstered by strong sales in the United States and lower raw material costs.
The company earned $381 million, or 91 cents a share, in the quarter, up from $353 million, or 84 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. 
 But the 1995 quarter included earnings of $7 million a share on operations that have been discontinued, including the company's audio tape and videotape business, and other operations spun off as the Imation Corporation on July 1.
The most recent results were slightly better than the 90-cent average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research.
Shares of Minnesota Mining rose 50 cents today, to $63.875, on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The U.S. rebounded pretty sharply," said Jack Kelly, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Company. Unit sales in the United States rose 5 percent after being unchanged during the first quarter.
Sales in terms of the dollar rose 7 percent in the United States, with price increases adding two percentage points.
The company credited strong demand from the domestic auto, chemical, consumer and office markets. In its life sciences unit, gains in drug-delivery systems, commercial graphics, diaper tapes, dental products and safety and security systems were offset by slower sales of medical products.
Outside the United States, sales rose 8 percent, with volume up 7 percent and prices up 1 percent.
A stronger dollar, however, canceled out all of that gain. Minnesota Mining estimated currency exchange rates cut second-quarter earnings by 5 percent, or 4 cents a share.
Most of the international sales gains came in Japan, the rest of Asia and South America. Japanese unit sales increased 11 percent, helped by an improved economy and new products tailored for that market. Volume increased about 15 percent in Asia outside Japan and more than 20 percent in Latin America.
By contrast, Europe showed a 3 percent increase because of sluggish economies there.
Minnesota Mining was also helped in the quarter by lower costs. The cost of goods sold dropped to 56.3 percent of sales, from 60.3 percent in 1995 and 59.6 percent two years ago.
"Raw material costs, which had a substantial negative effect on gross margins in each of the past several quarters, started to show a small, positive impact this quarter," Giulio Agostini, the company's chief financial officer, told analysts at a San Francisco meeting.
He said the trend should continue to help earnings over the next few quarters.
Mr. Agostini also said the company expected 1996 earnings to rise by more than 10 percent.
"We haven't seen signs of slowing in major world economies versus what we experienced in the second quarter," he said.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing "

Qtr. to June 30	1996	1995	%Ch	Sales	3,552,000,000	3,424,000,000	+3.8	Net inc.	381,000,000	b353,000,000	+7.9	Sh. earn	.91	.84		Sh. out.	418,900,000	420,200,000	 	
 
b-Included income from discontinued operations of $7 million, or 2 cents a share.
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing said that changes in currency exchange rates reduced earnings in the latest quarter by about four cents a share.
Results are for the second quarter.
 
Yesterday's closing price: $63.875
Up 50 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MMM (SWX) (84%); MMM (NYSE) (84%); MMM (FRA) (84%); IMN (NYSE) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (84%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (84%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (71%); NAICS334613 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (71%); SIC3695 MAGNETIC & OPTICAL RECORDING MEDIA (71%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (91%); JAPAN (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 3M CO (84%); IMATION CORP (71%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA MINING & MANUFACTURING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (91%); JAPAN (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); US DOLLAR (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MAGNETIC & OPTICAL MEDIA MFG (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIO AGOSTINI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



638 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: G.M.-Union Talks to Resume After Accord

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 29

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation, removing a thorn in the side of the United Automobile Workers union that has held up contract talks, said on Friday that it had agreed to reinstate a U.A.W. official who was dismissed in April.
G.M. said Al Alli would return to his job at the Lordstown, Ohio, assembly plant, and would be reinstated as chairman of U.A.W. Local 1112 and will lead local plant negotiations. 
 Mr. Alli's dismissal on April 13 led to a three-day wildcat strike at the Lordstown plant, where G.M.'s popular Chevrolet Cavalier and Pontiac Sunfire small cars are built.
G.M. said Mr. Alli was discharged for using fraudulent time-card procedures to obtain pay for time that he had not worked. The auto maker said that two years ago, Mr. Alli's time and attendance cards were stamped to show that he was at work when he was in Las Vegas, Nev.
In a statement Friday, G.M.'s vice president of personnel, Gerald Knechtel, and a U.A.W. vice president, Richard Shoemaker, said Mr. Alli was reinstated "following in-depth discussions in the grievance procedure regarding the importance of employees properly recording their actual time at work, and management's requirement to properly pay such employees."
The agreement barred Mr. Alli from commenting. He will not receive back pay for the time he was unemployed, and a long-term disciplinary layoff will remain on his record, they said in the statement.
U.A.W. members said the dismissal of Mr. Alli, a popular leader among the plant's workers, had been a sticking point in triennial labor contract negotiations at G.M., which began in June.
In addition, G.M. and the U.A.W. said they had agreed to a "renewed commitment to promptly addressing issues raised by either party and maintaining and improving the Lordstown assembly plant operations and the quality of its products."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW) INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); STRIKES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); BACK PAY (73%); 

PERSON: ALLI, AL AL ALLI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



639 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Dow Falls 38.47 in Slowest Session of Year

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks fell in the slowest session of the year yesterday as investors awaited a raft of economic reports this week that could determine whether the Federal Reserve raises interest rates.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 38.47 points to close at 5,434.59.
In the broader market, declining issues beat advances by 1,465 to 905 on volume of only 281.6 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 It was the lightest trading volume since 252 million shares traded the day after Christmas last year.
The Nasdaq composite index fell 12.97 points, to 1,066.47. Nasdaq volume of 418 million shares was the second slowest this year, after 399 million shares on Jan. 2.
"I don't think anyone is prepared to do anything rash prior to the slug of important economic data we'll be getting over the course of this week," said Philip Orlando, chief investment officer at Value Line Asset Management.
If the Fed policy makers decide at their Aug. 20 meeting to raise short-term rates to ward off inflation, it could also hurt corporate earnings, thereby depressing stock prices.
The first report, due today, is the Employment Cost Index for the second quarter, which many analysts regard as a key indicator of a possible pickup in inflation. Analysts estimate the index rose nine-tenths of 1 percent after a seven-tenths of 1 percent increase in the first quarter.
The index will attract more attention than usual, coming nearly a month after the Government reported that average hourly earnings jumped 8 cents in June, the highest monthly increase since tabulations started 31 years ago.
The National Association of Purchasing Management's report on manufacturing is due on Thursday, the first broad glimpse of the economy's performance in July, and the July jobs report is due on Friday.
Yesterday's quiet stock market action was in stark contrast to the hectic trading linked to corporate earnings reports in recent sessions, and analysts said that earnings would take a back seat for now.
"Not many people are aggressively bidding stocks or bonds until they see how some of these numbers come out," Bill Meehan, an analyst at Prudential Securities, said.
With bond prices already dropping ahead of the economic reports, the reports themselves may prove anti-climactic for stocks, analysts said.
"It would be like getting a sprained ankle after a heart attack," said Roy Blumberg, chief investment strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross.
Among the big movers in the stock market were companies involved in security after the pipe bomb explosion at the Atlanta Olympics and the T.W.A. plane crash off Long Island.
Barringer Technologies rose 2 1/4, to 10 3/8, on news that its Ionscan explosive detector met Federal Aviation Administration security rules.
Magal Security Systems fell 2 1/8, to 9, after hitting a 52-week high of 15 3/8. Josephthal, Lyon & Ross cut the stock to sell from hold, noting the shares have soared 450 percent since the July 17 crash.
The airport security personnel trainer CTS Holland Production rose 3 5/8, to 12 3/4.
CalFed Bancorp gained 1 1/4, to 22 5/8, after it announced a merger with First Nationwide Bancorp valued at $1.2 billion.
Newbridge Network slumped 6 1/2, to 41 5/8, after Needham & Company raised concerns over the company's earnings.
Reebok climbed 3 1/2, to 34 3/4, on news of a big stock buyback.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks fell 4.99 points, to 630.91.
The American Stock Exchange index lost 3.03, to 536.12.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed common stocks fell 2.23, to 338.64. The average share was down 24 cents.
The Wilshire Associates Equity Index -- the market value of Big Board, American and Nasdaq issues -- was 6,174.668, down 45.608, or 0.73 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAGS (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (50%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (51%); MAGAL SECURITY SYSTEMS LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); GEORGIA, USA (69%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (63%); BOMBINGS (63%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (62%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (60%); CIVIL AVIATION (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



640 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Destructive Engagement in Myanmar

 BODY:
The Burmese dissident leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi's quiet eloquence and courage have always spoken louder than her Government's attempts to silence her. But last week that Government won a double victory over the dissident. Her voice, it seems, cannot be heard over the rustle of money.
Earlier this month Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi called for international economic sanctions against Myanmar, formerly Burma, for the first time. In May the State Law and Order Restoration Council, or Slorc, as the Government is known, arrested 262 members of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, and the arrests go on. The crackdown is business as usual for a regime that put Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest for five years after her party won elections in 1990. The Slorc's brutality and opium trafficking have made Myanmar an outlaw state. 
 But Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's courage has produced a collective international shrug. Last week Myanmar assumed observer status at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a step toward membership. An Asean forum endorsed a policy of constructive engagement, seeking to open the nation gradually through trade and investment.
Constructive engagement in this case is not a policy, it is a dodge. Asian investment in Myanmar is growing. Given Asean's membership, which includes the authoritarian Governments of Indonesia, Vietnam, Brunei and Singapore, the indifference to democracy is not surprising.
The Slorc's second victory came in Washington when the Senate rejected a pullout of American investment in Myanmar proposed by Mitch McConnell and Daniel Patrick Moynihan. After intensive lobbying by Unocal, the American company with the largest financial interests in Myanmar, the Senate approved a threat of sanctions that can be imposed by the President if there is further harassment of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and her supporters.
The Clinton Administration, which had been showing promising rhetorical gumption toward Myanmar, must insure that the Senate vote is not a dodge as well. Sanctions are not an all-purpose weapon, but President Clinton must use them forcefully here. The European Parliament has approved a non-binding sanctions resolution. The big investors, Britain and France, are under increasing pressure to pull out.
American investment in Myanmar over the last five years was $245 million, mostly in oil and gas. Most projects are joint ventures with government or military companies. The biggest American project is Unocal's stake in a proposed gas pipeline, also financed by the Slorc.
The Senate's willingness to bow before this minimal American investment shows the risks of constructive engagement. Instead of American engagement changing Burmese values and policies, the engagement seems to be affecting Washington. The United States has softened its policies toward an outlaw nation and let down a leader who deserves its full support.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: UCL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); 

COUNTRY: MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

COMPANY: UNOCAL CORP (54%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR; MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; MYANMAR-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ARRESTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); HOUSE ARREST (70%); APPROVALS (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); OPIUM (53%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (53%); 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); BILL CLINTON (68%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



641 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Argentine Financial Markets Hold Steady

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, July 29

 BODY:
Argentina received a much-needed vote of confidence today as its financial markets remained steady, defying dire predictions that investors would abandon the debt-pressed country after the ouster of its Finance Minister, Domingo Cavallo, last week.
The Merval index of the 28 most-traded stocks on the Buenos Aires stock exchange -- which tumbled 4.1 percent on Friday -- rose 2.8 percent today, or 14.36 points, to 519.22, in heavy trading. Argentine bonds declined only slightly today, while in New York, Argentina's benchmark Brady bonds posted modest gains. Also, foreign-exchange operators reported no major increase in exchanging pesos for dollars, as was the case Friday. 
 Analysts and economists attributed the rise in Argentine stocks mainly to bargain hunters who snatched up undervalued shares following a 20 percent decline in the market during the last six weeks.
In addition, the analysts and economists said that investors were encouraged by statements made over the weekend by Mr. Cavallo's replacement, Roque Fernandez, former director of the central bank, who said that Argentina would not devalue its currency and would not stray from its current economic course.
Luis Corsiglia, a well-known stock broker here, said that today's gains signaled a partial recovery of the market and underscored rising confidence in Argentina among investors at home and abroad, especially since stocks in other Latin American countries closed down today.
"Many people thought the bottom was going to fall out of the stock market today, but clearly that did not happen and that bodes well for the future," Mr. Corsiglia said.
But many investors remain very nervous and Argentina's financial markets are expected to be rattled by volatility in coming weeks as Mr. Fernandez devises a plan to offset the country's huge budget deficit amid growing unrest over taxes.
Many investors are still wary following Mexico's currency crisis last year. Argentina is the Latin American country that most resembles Mexico in terms of economic reforms and debt.
"Whoever's buying so much stock must be extremely confident in Argentina's future, especially since we still don't know any specific plans of the new finance minister," said Roger Heale, an analyst with Interacciones, a local brokerage firm. "We prefer to wait another week or so."
President Carlos Saul Menem dismissed Mr. Cavallo on Friday after the two had a heated argument over the Finance Minister's belt-tightening measures.
"Roque Fernandez is an excellent, low-profile technician, and his team is, technically, perhaps even better than Cavallo's," said Ricardo Alverez Rojo, an independent economist. "However, he doesn't have the power to rein in the political lobbies. He is an office economist and he isn't street smart and this is very important here. In this respect, Cavallo was really savvy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; ARGENTINA (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); DEVALUATION (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; CAVALLO, DOMINGO (MIN) DOMINGO CAVALLO (91%); ROQUE FERNANDEZ (72%); LUIS CORSIGLIA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



642 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Fearing Strife, U.N. Withholds Report on Death of Burundian

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, July 29

 BODY:
Apparently fearful of provoking more violence in Burundi in the wake of a military coup last week by the Tutsi-dominated army, the Security Council is withholding from publication a report on the 1993 assassination of the country's first freely elected President, a Hutu.
The report, written by an international commission of inquiry set up last August by the Security Council, is believed to implicate or possibly identify people still prominent in Burundi. 
 Only representatives of the 15-member Council, which voted today to condemn the latest coup, are being permitted to read it. Members can examine the report for only 30 minutes and only in the private chambers of the Council President, who this month is France's representative, Alain Dejammet.
"This report has arrived on our doorstep at precisely the most sensitive time in terms of Burundi's internal political situation," one Western representative who has seen it said. "The timing could not be worse."
Hutu members of Burundi's just-dissolved Parliament and others who say they will resist the military takeover under Maj. Pierre Buyoya are charging that he will be implicated in the 1993 violence, although other less official investigations have not accused him in the assassination of President Melchior Ndadaye. But high-ranking officers in the Burundi's Tutsi-dominated army have been accused of involvement and might be incited to further violence.
Barnett Rubin, director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, pointed out that the commission's report is not linked to any judicial process or other course of action that could make a difference.
"A lot of international efforts thus far consist of well intentioned statements without any adequate power to back them up, which then have the opposite effect of what was intended," he said.
Hutu politicians are also suspicious of Major Buyoya's links with the United States. Today the Agency for International Development said that it had given his private foundation more than $145,000 in the last two years for democratization programs. He has made several recent trips to the United States, including one to the Carter Center in Atlanta in February at the invitation of Jimmy Carter, who has been a leading mediator in the Great Lakes region of Africa.
Democratic Party officials said today that Major Buyoya had been invited before the coup to attend the Democratic National Convention in Chicago in August but that the invitation was being reconsidered.
Human rights advocates say they find it ironic that Africans, not Americans, have been loudest in their condemnation of the coup in Burundi last week. The United States and Europe have been prepared to give Major Buyoya a chance, while Africans have called for his removal from the office he seized by ejecting an elected president -- for the second time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BURUNDI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BURUNDI; BURUNDI (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; TUTSI TRIBE; HUTU TRIBE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ASSASSINATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); COUPS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (60%); FOUNDATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; NDADAYE, MELCHOIR JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



643 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Cray's Battle Might Be for A Lost Era

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
Cray Research Inc. formally opened a trade battle over supercomputers yesterday, charging that the NEC Corporation had unfairly won a Federal contract by "dumping" its machine on the market at a price below the cost of building it. But unless Cray moves nimbly, it may find itself making the old soldier's mistake of fighting the last war.
Regardless of how sympathetic the United States Commerce Department may be to Cray's accusation that NEC, the Japanese computer giant, won a $35 million contract last spring from the National Center for Atmospheric Research by illegal underbidding, Cray will need to demonstrate that its own view of the supercomputer market remains valid. 
 And that could be a hard case to make in a high-technology industry where the fastest computers are now sometimes among the least expensive.
It is a very different industry from the one that Cray Research helped found nearly two decades ago, when supercomputers were one-of-a-kind machines wrought from custom-built hardware so sensitive they required specially designed cooling equipment. For a specialty company like Cray, a $20 million sale or two to a Government weapons laboratory, university or other supercomputer buyer could mean a profitable year -- then or now.
In the last decade, though, the high-performance computing world has come to use many of the same components that run inexpensive personal computers and work stations, and new computing technologies now routinely appear first in consumer electronics, not supercomputers. That shift is a trend that has put more than one supercomputer boutique out of business -- including Kendall Square Research and Supercomputer Systems in recent years.
Indeed, the trend so hobbled Cray Research that the company, a venerable mainstay of the supercomputing industry, found it necessary to sell itself earlier this year to the work station maker Silicon Graphics Inc. just to stay in business.
The economics of supercomputing now favor large, diversified technology companies like NEC of Japan -- or American behemoths like I.B.M., which on Friday won a $93 million contract from the Department of Energy to design and build the world's fastest supercomputer. I.B.M. is expected to draw upon its many existing in-house technologies as it works on the new machine.
Yesterday, in filing an antidumping petition with the Commerce Department and the International Trade Commission, Cray argued that NEC had underpriced its machines by as much as 454 percent.
The atmospheric-research contract was the first Federal supercomputing contract ever awarded to a Japanese company. And Cray, which has sold about a dozen supercomputers to the Japanese Government, said that if NEC's bid prevailed, it would hurt the United States industry.
The short-term effect would be a lost sale, Cray argued, and in the long term, prices in the American market would be artificially lowered.
"We've been ultraconservative in making our argument," said Earl Joseph, a market analyst at Cray Research who was involved in preparing its complaint.
But NEC officials in the United States said that Cray had made erroneous assumptions in analyzing NEC's actual cost of the supercomputer in question -- an NEC SX-4 -- and how many machines NEC could expect to sell in recouping its research and development expenses.
What may look like dumping to a speciality shop like Cray, NEC executives said, could be lucrative business to a big, broad-based company that can spread its development costs over a broad product line.
"There are serious problems with their estimates," said Samuel W. Adams, a vice president for NEC's United States subsidiary, HNSX Supercomputers Inc.
Cray executives contend that it is impossible for NEC to design and build the 128-processor weather and climate modeling supercomputer called for in the contract for the $35 million that was NEC's winning bid. But they would not disclose what their own bid was.
NEC executives counter that Cray is comparing an older supercomputer technology, known as bipolar logic, with a semiconductor technology called complementary metal on silicon, better known as CMOS. NEC has employed CMOS technology in personal computers and other consumer electronics products.
"The most serious flaw is that the Cray analysis is equating cost and prices of their current bipolar product line to our CMOS," Mr. Adams said. "CMOS is just much cheaper to make."
Analysts say that Cray has generally trailed the rest of the supercomputer industry in the shift from bipolar to CMOS technology.
And one supercomputer industry executive not involved in the disputed contract said that Cray's decision to seek Government relief was a sign of the company's increasingly difficult position in the face of changing technology and more aggressive foreign competition.
He noted that Cray was beaten by I.B.M. for the contract awarded on Friday for Lawrence Livermore Laboratories. "They lost the bid to I.B.M. at Livermore," he said, "and they can't cry foul as they did in the NEC bid." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: 6701 (TSE) (96%); SGI (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: CRAY RESEARCH INC; NEC CORP; NATIONAL CENTER FOR ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH NEC CORP (96%); CRAY RESEARCH INC (95%); SILICON GRAPHICS INTERNATIONAL CORP (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CRAY RESEARCH INC; NEC CORP; NATIONAL CENTER FOR ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; DUMPING (TRADE TERM); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RESEARCH SUPERCOMPUTERS (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); METEOROLOGY (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (64%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%); PETITIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



644 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Governor Says Aides Earned Inaugural Pay

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: KINGSTON, N.Y., July 29

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki today defended payments made to top campaign aides by corporations established to finance his inaugural celebration and transition into the Governor's office.
"They worked extremely hard and they had to get paid by someone," Mr. Pataki said. "They had to pay their bills." 
 He said he wished that information about the corporations' fund raising and spending had been made public earlier, adding that he had learned about the size of payments -- more than $50,000 in at least one case -- only in the last few days. The sources and beneficiaries of about $2.5 million in donations were released only after a successful court challenge by Assembly Democrats.
The decision to withhold the information until last Friday was made by officials at the corporations and not by him, Mr. Pataki said.
The Governor said he supported the idea of providing public funds for the official activities of incoming governors in the future, but he declined to say whether he would introduce such legislation.
Decisions about how much transition workers would be paid were made by the head of the transition committee, Robert E. Boyle, Mr. Pataki said. Mr. Boyle, who was treasurer of the fund-raising corporations, was appointed by Mr. Pataki to be president of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
The Governor also said that he had not made the decisions concerning the lavishness of his three-day inaugural celebration in Albany.
"I had much higher priorities and I still do," Mr. Pataki said.
Michael C. Finnegan, the Pataki administration's chief counsel and an old friend of the Governor, was paid $53,750. Zenia Mucha, a former press secretary to Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and now Mr. Pataki's director of communications, was paid $31,597. Robert Ryan, Mr. Pataki's campaign manager, was paid about $42,000. Mr. Ryan is now a top official in the state's economic development office. Mr. Boyle was paid $34,500.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; INAUGURATIONS; FINANCES; TRANSITION BETWEEN ADMINISTRATIONS; ETHICS GOVERNORS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ETHICS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); POLITICS (65%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (75%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



645 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Mayors Fear Welfare Cuts May Increase Homelessness

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, July 29

 BODY:
For the second time in a week, more than 100 homeless people marched on City Hall today, protesting the city's decision to restrict access to shelters because of cuts in state and Federal social programs over the last few years.
In an announcement this month that single adults will now be turned away from the shelters as a cost-saving measure, Mayor Edward G. Rendell said that the city had already exceeded its current budget for the homeless by $4 million and that if access were not limited officials would be unable to satisfy the needs of homeless people in the winter, when the demand on shelters increases. 
 The new restrictions were roundly criticized by boisterous protesters as they convened in a plaza before moving into the corridor outside Mr. Rendell's office. Many held up signs of protest, and at one point they chanted, "Hey, Ed, give us a bed."
But advocates for the homeless here and elsewhere contend that Philadelphia's decision is only the beginning. They say that cutbacks in Federal programs, combined with changes in state welfare policies and the bills imposing time limits and spending restrictions on welfare that were recently passed by the House and Senate, would profoundly increase the nation's homeless population, leaving local governments ill-equipped to contend with a growing demand for services.
"When you have that kind of funding decrease, it's like taking away one third of your army in a battle you are already losing," said Mayor Marc Morial of New Orleans, a Democrat who is chairman of the United States Conference of Mayors Task Force on Hunger and Homelessness. "And the cuts we have experienced are certainly not as dramatic as those that are proposed."
This year, Federal spending for at least 10 programs that assist the homeless was cut from 1995, and in nearly every case, the financing proposed for 1997 under House and Senate bills would hold at current levels. And the most recent report on homelessness by the Conference of Mayors found that in 1995, requests for emergency shelter increased by an average of 11 percent over the previous year in 29 cities surveyed and that an average of 19 percent of the requests went unmet.
The National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, a nonprofit legal advocacy group in Washington, has predicted that thousands of families could become homeless if either the House or Senate version of welfare overhaul is signed into law.
"We're very concerned," said Maria Foscarinis, the executive director of the law center. "It's clear that both bills would increase the overall level of homelessness."
Supporters of the new Federal welfare bills disagree. They contend that block grants to the states, which would replace many Federal programs, would enable states to tailor programs to meet their own specific needs.
But like other opponents of the bills, including Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat, and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, a Republican, who contend that state welfare policies will be unable to prevent more people from falling into poverty, Mr. Morial said that "it's hard for anybody to make the case that homelessness is not going to get worse; you can only hope that it does not get dramatically worse."
While officials from many cities have already complained of adverse effects of cuts in Federal programs in recent years, Mr. Rendell is one of the first big city mayors to cite new state welfare regulations as a direct factor in the need to cut back local services.
In June, the Pennsylvania Legislature passed a measure that could cut off welfare benefits for more than 40,000 single men and medical benefits for as many as 220,000 more welfare recipients.
Mr. Rendell, a Democrat who called the state measure "inhumane and unconscionable," said that even before the new state legislation, the city experienced a 10 percent increase in the number of people seeking shelter services since last year, to 23,153 from 21,477. He predicted that the state measures would increase demand for shelters in Philadelphia over the next two years by 18,000 single adults in the city who are losing cash assistance and 62,000 who are losing medical benefits as a result of the change in policies.
But it is more than the growing number of those needing shelter that worries Mr. Rendell and other mayors as they strain to keep their programs operational. They say a rising tide of homelessness would ultimately cost states more than what welfare changes are meant to save, through an increase in crime, the need for job training programs and the economic loss from people who can no longer afford to rent housing and purchase goods.
"We're left with a Hobson's Choice," Mr. Rendell said in an interview. "Either we're letting our needs go unmet, creating havoc, with crime, homelessness and people living in the streets. Or we meet them dollar for dollar, forcing us to raise taxes and continue a horrible vicious cycle of losing our tax base, which gives us less revenue for programs."
"If that happens," he added, "it kills any chance for the future viability of cities. They'll drown."
Steven Black, 26, a high school graduate and former restaurant cook from North Philadelphia who became homeless after he was laid off, said he was turned away from a shelter by the new rules. But after weeks of sleeping on the streets, he learned that as a recovering substance abuser, he qualified for shelter under a different program.
Standing at the fringe of the demonstration, he said he has remained free of drugs and alcohol since moving off the streets.
But his view of the future is bleak. He said he worries that another change in state policy might force him out of this shelter, and he has no idea how he might become a productive citizen again.
"If I could, I would go back to school," he said. "I've always wanted to be a teacher. I'd love to go to college. But I'm no kid anymore, and I just don't see how I can get it done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With Philadelphia having already exceeded its budget for homeless services, Mayor Edward G. Rendell has banned single adults from the city's shelters. The move was protested yesterday at City Hall. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (72%); MAYORS TASK FORCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAYORS TASK FORCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WELFARE (US); STATES (US) HOMELESSNESS (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); 

PERSON: RENDELL, EDWARD G (MAYOR); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL ED RENDELL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



646 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: BOMB AT THE OLYMPICS: THE VICTIMS;
Woman Who 'Lost Her Life While Celebrating the Human Spirit'

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, July 29

 BODY:
Although Alice S. Hawthorne did not run a single lap or win a single competition, her name is likely to be long associated with the 1996 Summer Olympics as a casualty of the Games' spirit of harmony and openness.
Mrs. Hawthorne, who was 44, died in the Saturday morning bomb blast that sprayed shrapnel over a swath of Centennial Olympic Park, the 21-acre grass and brick-paved area that stands at the physical heart of the Olympic Games. The park had been reclaimed from slums and old warehouses to become a place for visitors and locals to meet, greet and celebrate -- no high-priced tickets or special passes needed. 
 "Mrs. Hawthorne will forever be remembered as one who lost her life while celebrating the human spirit at the Olympics," said Gordon Joyner, a member of the Fulton County Commission.
Today, Mr. Joyner joined other elected officials and various celebrities in rallying around Mrs. Hawthorne's family: her husband, John, who works for the City of Albany's Community and Economic Development Department; her 14-year-old daughter, Fallon Stubbs, who is recuperating at Georgia Baptist Hospital here from wounds suffered in the blast, and an extended network of grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins.
Family members learned just this morning about the memorial service planned by the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games for tomorrow, soon after the park reopens to the public. The service, involving public officials, senior representatives of the Olympics and athletes, will honor Mrs. Hawthorne; the Turkish television cameraman, Melih Uzunyol, who suffered a heart attack while rushing to cover the incident, and the 110 people who were injured in the blast.
But in Albany, Ga., some 200 miles south of here, where Mrs. Hawthorne lived, people who knew her insisted that she would be much more than a footnote to the 1996 Summer Games. A former United States Army lieutenant, she was a co-owner of Fallon's Ice Cream Parlor and an employee of the local cable television company. Friends cited her tireless civic work for the Chamber of Commerce. And they pointed out that she was one of the first women to be accepted as a member of the American Legion chapter.
Mrs. Hawthorne, a volunteer in the city's literacy program, had completed a chamber-sponsored leadership training program and was managing the campaign of a local candidate for the State Legislature.
But virtually everyone who spoke of Mrs. Hawthorne agreed that she will best be remembered as someone who brought people together. "The Hawthorne family lived their lives for others," Mayor Tommy Coleman of Albany said. "And this lady will be remembered as a person who believed in the coming together of others, and not because of a cowardly act of violence."
Mr. Coleman added, "We all feel a deep sense of loss for our community."
Curt Kennedy, Mrs. Hawthorne's business partner at the ice cream parlor, stood in the shop today where a simple wreath with satin ribbons adorned the door. On the counter was a vase of carnations and lilies; leaning against it, a hand-lettered sign saying, "We feel your loss and sorrow."
Mr. Kennedy's sadness could barely suppress his anger as he noted that burglars had broken into the Hawthorne home sometime Sunday morning, making off with a television and a VCR.
Today, while the police were stationed outside the home in a quiet middle-class subdivision, Mr. Kennedy could only shake his head and ask: "How can all this happen because a mother took her daughter to the Olympics as part of a birthday present?"
Friends in Albany said that Fallon, who turned 14 years old on July 24, had asked her mother to take her to the Games. The youngster had been close enough to the blast to suffer large gash-like wounds, doctors reported. Still, they said today that she was in good condition and was likely to be released on Tuesday.
Her visitors today ranged from local elected officials to Andrew Young, the co-chairman of the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games, to Olympic athletes like Matt Ghaffari, a silver medalist in wrestling. What they found was a talkative girl who seems to have fended off the shock of her loss, and a family whose initial bitterness at feeling ignored by Olympics officials had subsided. Over the weekend, Mr. Hawthorne had complained that no senior representative of the Games had spoken with the family.
Speaking a few hours after he had visited Fallon in her hospital room, the Rev. Jesse Jackson said today, "She realizes that her mother is dead and she will eventually have to deal with that."
He added, "She talked about what college she wants to go to -- Georgetown University -- and I saw tremendous strength there."
Mr. Joyner brought gifts from his own 14-year-old daughter: one of the original Atlanta 1996 pins minted when the city was announced as the site of the summer games, and a Teddy bear dressed in stars and stripes and carrying a balloon saying "You're Awesome."
In talking with family members, Mr. Joyner said he sensed a certain calm that overlay their grief.
"They didn't have any hate in their hearts and they didn't mention a thing about the investigation or wanting someone to be caught," he said. "These were warm people and they seemed mostly concerned today about Fallon getting better."
Mr. Ghaffari said that Fallon had spoken not of loss, but of his size -- he weighs 286 pounds. Fallon, he said, asked if he would be her bodyguard if she can get tickets to see the Dream Team play, as Atlanta's Mayor, Bill Campbell, has promised. He agreed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, GA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTENNIAL OLYMPIC PARK (ATLANTA, GA); ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ALBANY, GA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1996); BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OLYMPICS (94%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); FAMILY (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CELEBRITIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ICE CREAM (73%); TERRORISM (72%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (72%); WOMEN (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); ARMIES (51%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; HAWTHORNE, ALICE CURT KENNEDY (59%); FALLON STUBBS (59%); GORDON JOYNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



647 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2885 words

HEADLINE: Summary of Major Actions in the 219th Session of the Legislature

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 29

 BODY:
The New York State Legislature concluded its 219th session at 5:28 P.M. on July 13 in a mad, confusing rush to adjournment, as Gov. George E. Pataki linked final negotiations on the state budget to many nonbudget bills.
The year began with a major confrontation between the Governor and Legislature, when both houses voted to override Mr. Pataki's veto of a bill that would make it easier for New York City police officers to win larger salary increases. It was the first time the Legislature had overturned a veto in more than a decade. 
 The conflict continued for much of the session, as Mr. Pataki and leaders from the Republican-controlled Senate and Democratic-controlled Assembly hit impasse after impasse over the budget. The Legislature finally enacted the spending plan in the session's closing hours, 104 days overdue. It was probably the latest state budget in the nation's history.
For all the budget squabbling, though, the Legislature had several major accomplishments this year. It approved changes in the state's $5 billion workers' compensation system, which are expected to cut employers' insurance premiums. It required the state to tell mothers the results of H.I.V. tests on their newborns. It discarded the state system of setting hospital rates, allowing the hospitals to negotiate prices directly with insurance companies. It made it much easier for candidates to get on the ballot.
The Assembly passed 1,042 of the 2,900 bills introduced in that house. The State Senate passed 1,358 of 2,253. A total of 811 bills passed both houses. Of those, Mr. Pataki has signed 344 and vetoed 18. The other bills are awaiting the Governor's decision on whether to sign them into law.
These are the major actions of the year:
 
The Budget
Mr. Pataki introduced his budget a month early, on Dec. 15, hoping to make good on his campaign pledge to end the state's run of 11 straight late budgets. It became not just the 12th consecutive overdue budget, but the latest in the state's history, eclipsing the previous record by five weeks.
The Governor's original plan was based heavily on expected changes in Federal entitlement policies that would have authorized the state to drastically reduce spending on welfare and Medicaid, the health care program for the poor. Mr. Pataki also called for sharp cuts to mental health services, higher education and programs for disabled students. He proposed block grants under which local governments would receive less money for entitlement programs but be given more freedom in spending it.
His proposal would have reduced spending from state taxes by $1.9 billion, or 5.7 percent, which would have represented the second consecutive decline.
But two things undermined the Governor's plan. First, the Federal Government failed to enact the policy changes his budget was based on, removing pressure on the Legislature to make major entitlement cuts. Second, all of the Legislature's 211 seats are up for election this year, and almost none of the lawmakers, Republican or Democrat, were in the mood to reduce spending.
In the end, the Legislature restored most of the Governor's cuts to Medicaid, welfare and education. They rejected his major criminal justice ideas and his block-grant plan. But in a nod to voters, they maintained the second year of a three-part income tax reduction, added new business tax cuts worth $83 million this year and included $150 million for favored local programs, known as members' items.
The final budget is expected to spend $33.1 billion from state taxes, about the same as last year, while spending from state and Federal sources is expected to reach $66 billion, up 2 percent.
As the session drew to a close, several lawmakers proposed measures intended to force the Legislature to enact the budget on time. But they decided not to take up the debate until after the elections.
 
Welfare and Families
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Authorizes the state to release confidential records in certain child-abuse cases, when a child has died, for example, or when someone has been charged with abuse.
Raises the number of people allowed to live in foster-family boarding homes as a way of encouraging the authorities to place siblings together.
Requires state family court judges to consider domestic violence as a factor in child custody cases.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have set a 60-day time limit on Home Relief, the welfare program for childless, able-bodied adults, and a five-year lifetime limit on receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children.
Would have reduced welfare benefits by an average of 27 percent.
Would have allowed welfare recipients to keep more of their earnings from work without losing any welfare grants.
Would have prevented the state from increasing benefits to families who have additional children while on welfare.
Would have authorized local governments to conduct drug tests on welfare recipients and applicants and to require treatment as a condition for receiving benefits.
 
Environment and Energy
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Increases civil penalties for unlawful taking of bears.
Requires Fresh Kill Landfill on Staten Island to close by 2002.
Allows local legislators to decide whether to fluoridate publicly owned water supplies.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Would place a question asking voters whether the state should sell $1.75 billion in bonds for environmental projects on the November ballot.
Would allow 30,000 homeowners to install solar cells and reduce their electric bills, to zero if possible.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have allowed owners of billboards to cut down trees that obscured their advertisements.
Would have allowed the snaring of beavers in certain areas.
Would have allowed Hunter Mountain Ski Resort to acquire state forest preserve land to expand its ski slopes.
Would have banned commercial logging in all state parks.
Would have allowed citizens to sue companies that violate state pollution laws.
 
Taxes
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Reduces taxes on railroad and trucking companies.
Eliminates a 10 percent tax on profits from the sale of real estate worth over $1 million.
Exempts the first 250 acres of a farmer's land from local property taxes.
Exempts clothing items worth less than $500 from the state's 4 percent sales tax for one week next January, as a one-time experiment.
Allows local governments to grant property tax exemptions to people who are totally and permanently disabled.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have created a tax deduction for the purchase of long-term insurance covering nursing home care.
 
Health and Insurance
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Requires hospitals and insurance companies to provide 48-hour maternity stays to mothers.
Sets up a program to test newborns for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, and notify their mothers of the results.
Increases availability of homeowner's insurance in coastal and other areas where it is often difficult to get coverage.
Prohibits insurance companies from discriminating against people who are victims of domestic violence.
Sets up a registry to track the use of pesticides to aid scientists in determining chemicals' relationship to cancer and other diseases.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Would deregulate state hospitals by lifting the controls on how much hospitals can charge health insurance companies.
Would provide a range of new protections for people who enroll in managed care plans.
Would stiffen rules for doctors who are negligent or commit malpractice, in an effort to prevent them from practicing.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have banned cigarette and alcohol advertisements near schools and playgrounds.
Would have required insurance companies to pay for certain experimental treatments.
Would have lifted decades-old regulations that limited the sizes of commissions for life insurance agents in an effort to curb certain illegal practices.
Would have denied health care services, except in emergencies, to illegal immigrants at publicly financed health care centers.
Would have made it a Class E felony to knowingly perform a so-called partial birth abortion.
 
LEGISLATION VETOED
Would have required insurance companies to pay for chiropractic care.
 
Government and Ethics
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Would encourage the state to use vegetable-based ink in its printing operations.
 
AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would repeal some of the rules that make it difficult for candidates to qualify to run in elections.
Would allow victims of domestic violence to use special ballots so they can vote if they feel their safety is in jeopardy.
Would establish a procedure to insure the confidentiality of genetic-testing records.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have improved the public's access to the state's campaign finance records by putting them on computers.
Would have set up a system to finance election campaigns with state money.
Would have loosened the rules for qualifying for the ballot for the Republican Presidential primary.
Would have restricted campaign contributions that are given to political parties for their general expenses.
Would have prohibited discrimination based on sexual orientation in employment, credit, public accommodations, education and other areas.
 
LEGISLATION VETOED
Would have penalized people who improperly disclose information from a statewide registry of orders of protection.
 
Consumer Affairs
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Requires child protective devices on shopping carts.
Expands protections governing new motorized wheelchairs.
Insures that consumers who pay for a property appraisal, or a consumer credit report, to get a loan, have a right to obtain a copy of the report.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Requires auto dealers to provide more information on whether a customer is being charged for securing registration or certificate of title.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have imposed stiffer penalties on automobile rental agencies that refuse to rent to people because of where they live.
Would have significantly increased the penalties for false advertising.
Would have required that bottled water be labeled with an expiration date.
Would restrict access to minors of pornographic telephone services by requiring that users of these services have a personal identification number.
 
Crime and Justice
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Allows family members of a slaying victim to speak at the sentencing of the defendant.
Reverses provisions in current law that require children to remember specific times when incidents of repeated sexual abuse occurred.
Makes possession of child pornography a Class E felony.
Toughens penalties for throwing bodily fluids at prison guards.
Prohibits sex between prison guards and inmates.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Would toughen penalties for violating orders of protection.
Would allow fingerprinting of juveniles age 13 to 15 charged with certain felonies.
Would authorize judges to require use of electronic monitoring devices.
Would increase prison sentences for assault in the first degree, gang assaults and attacks on police officers, peace officers, firefighters, paramedics and emergency medical technicians.
Would authorize the State Crime Victims Board to provide benefits to victims of international acts of terrorism committed outside the United States.
Would allow members of a victim's family to make a statement before sentencing on behalf of a victim when victims are unable to express themselves.
Would authorize the possession and use of self-defense sprays like Mace.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have eliminated parole for all violent felons and required the state to build new maximum security prisons to house them.
Would have given prosecutors the right to appeal sentences and bail amounts.
Would have loosened the rules that the authorities must follow in searching for and seizing evidence from criminal suspects.
Would have stiffened penalties for juvenile offenders and required that juvenile offenders older than 16 be transferred to adult prisons from Division for Youth detention centers.
Would have given judges the authority to order H.I.V. tests for people charged with a range of offenses.
Would have banned assault weapons and increased penalties for those who commit crimes with them.
Would have increased penalties for obstructing abortion clinics and other types of health clinics.
Would have enacted new penalties against people who commit acts of violence or intimidation based on an individual's race, color, religion, gender, age or sexual orientation.
Would have made convicted criminals bear all or part of the costs of their crimes to victims and government.
 
LEGISLATION VETOED
Would have changed the way that the police and district attorneys make crime victims aware of their rights and services available to them.
 
Agriculture
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Gives farmers who earn less than $150,000 a year an annual property-tax credit that would total $3,000 to $4,000 by the year 2000.
Requires people who buy or sell cattle, horses, swine, deer or camels to obtain state health permits that verify that the animals have no diseases.
Authorizes the Commissioner of Agriculture and Markets to create and enforce regulations to control the spread of infectious diseases among farm animals.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Would toughen licensing requirements for dealers of farm products to protect farmers from fraud.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have made it illegal to force-feed an animal for nonmedical reasons.
Would have made it a misdemeanor for failing to provide animals food, water, shelter and veterinary care.
 
 Education
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Gives residents in cities with fewer than 125,000 people the right to approve or reject their local school district's budget during annual referendums.
Allows the New York City Schools Chancellor the authority to suspend local school boards or board member for mismanagement, corruption or other wrongdoing.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Would toughen eligibility requirements for preschool children entering summer special education programs and limit the role of service providers in referring preschoolers into special education programs.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have turned the New York City Board of Education into a city agency, giving the mayor control over the system's $8 billion budget and the selection of the chancellor.
Would have broken up the Board of Education into five separate school boards, one for each borough.
Would have abolished the city's 32 community school boards and expanded the number of seats on the Board of Education.
Would have allowed teachers to expel misbehaving students from their classrooms.
Would have barred New York City from shifting state financial aid for schools to other city agencies.
Would have required that at least one third of the Governor's appointees to the board of the State University of New York be former employees of the system or graduates of one of its schools.
 
 Business and Labor
 
 LEGISLATION VETOED BUT OVERRIDDEN
Changes the way New York City resolves contract disputes with its police and fire unions.
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Prohibits retailers from selling goods that were produced in illegal sweatshops and collects back wages from sweatshop operators who do not pay their employees.
Extends a state law for one yearprohibiting any decrease in health benefits for retired employees of public school districts and boards.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Would require the state to establish a bureau to detect fraud in the state's $5 billion workers' compensation system, lower insurance premiums for businesses with good safety records and shield businesses from certain kinds of lawsuits.
 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would require employers to keep records on toxic substances that their employees come into contact with in the workplace.
Would have provided unemployment insurance benefits to employees who decide to leave their jobs because of sexual harassment.
Would have raised the state's minimum wage to $5.05 from $4.25 in what would have been the first increase since 1991.
Would have allowed victims of sexual assault to collect disability benefits if they are attacked while on the job.
Would have imposed sanctions against employers who discriminate against employees for taking time off from work to serve on juries.
Would have allowed employees to take up to 16 weeks of unpaid leave for serious medical or family reasons.
 
Transportation
 
LEGISLATION SIGNED
Increases the fines for parking illegally in a space reserved for handicapped people.
Stiffens penalties against people under the age of 21 who are found to have any alcohol in their system while driving.
Toughens the requirements for obtaining a handicapped parking permit.
 
AWAITING GOVERNOR'S SIGNATURE
Would allow for the construction of a rest stop on the Long Island Expressway.
Would increase penalties against drivers who pass a school bus that is discharging or picking up passengers.
 
LEGISLATION VETOED
Would have removed Spring Valley tolls on the New York State Thruway.

GRAPHIC: Photos: George E. Pataki, Governor, discussing the budget that was finished July 11, more than 100 days late. (David Jennings for The New York Times); Sheldon Silver, Speaker, New York Assembly (Associated Press); Joseph L. Bruno, Senate Majority Leader (David Jennings for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (94%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HISTORY (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); INSURANCE (71%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (71%); BALLOTS (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); HEALTH CARE (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (51%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (73%); EDDIE GEORGE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



648 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole Finds Environment A Problem And an Issue

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: ANDERSON, Calif., July 29

 BODY:
For the second successive day, Bob Dole used a Western setting today to assail President Clinton's environmental policies, asserting that local economies had suffered from the Administration's allegiance to protecting wildlife and open land.
The venue today was a timber mill in this remote pocket of Northern California, and the topic was restrictions on logging that Mr. Dole said had devastated timber communities between here and the Canadian border. But, in an indication of the difficulties Mr. Dole faces in turning the environmental issue to his advantage, today he scaled back the harsh attack on Mr. Clinton's environmental record that he had offered on Sunday in Montana, in deference, aides said, to California's sensitivity to environmental concerns. 
 In Billings on Sunday night, with a farmhouse at his back and logs stacked on flatbed trucks to his side, Mr. Dole mocked "Bill Clinton's war on the West," which he said was dictated by "extremists who don't have the slightest regard for the Western economy, for jobs or for the rights of property owners."
Today, standing outside a lumber mill with the smell of sawdust in the air, he made no mention of the "war on the West." Instead, he offered a narrower attack on Mr. Clinton's opposition to a Republican-sponsored Congressional measure that would allow the logging of diseased and dead trees on public lands.
"The men and women who work in this industry have been abandoned -- and let me underscore -- abandoned, by this Administration," Mr. Dole said, under a scorching sun on a day on which the temperature reached 87 degrees by 7:15 A.M. "That's a fact. You've been abandoned by this Administration. You and your community have suffered too much.
"I don't believe we need to choose between a strong economy and a safe environment," he said. "It's a false choice. We can have both in America." He continued: "We can have both right here in California. We don't need to pit one against another.
"We can have both," Mr. Dole said. "We can have both -- an Administration that wants to have both. If you don't want to have both, you're not going to have both. In a Dole administration, we will make it work."
Mr. Dole's remarks today were less pointed than either what he said in Montana, or what his senior California adviser, Ken Khachigian, had wanted him to say in what will be Mr. Dole's last visit to this state before the convention in San Diego begins in two weeks. "There are a lot of voters in this state who feel there are a lot of environmental extremists," Mr. Khachigian said to reporters before Mr. Dole spoke. "They have indulged in greenery run amok."
But after Mr. Dole finished his considerably milder remarks on the topic, Mr. Khachigian said: "The meat wasn't as red as some people might have liked. But the point was made."
Mr. Dole's aides say that winning the West is critical to Mr. Dole's hope of victory in November and that tapping into the resentment among many property owners to environmental policies that have blocked land development is critical to winning the West. But in California, where polls show Mr. Dole trailing far behind Mr. Clinton, the environment has historically been an issue that helps determine elections. And that accounted for the different tone Mr. Dole struck here, his aides said.
"It's a tough issue to make too much ground on because this state is so strongly in favor of the environment," said Mark DiCamillo, director of the California Field Poll. "You can't mine it too much. It's one of the quote-unquote motherhood issues in California."
That view was reflected in Mr. Dole's audience here today. James White, 33, owner of a small plumbing business, said he was reconsidering his support for President Clinton out of concern that he had not done enough to deal with terrorism in the United States -- but Mr. White stopped short when he was asked if he shared Mr. Dole's concern about excessive environmental regulation.
"This is a resort community," Mr. White said. "We need to protect it while we can. A lot of us live here."
Mr. Clinton's campaign spokesman, Joe Lockhart, said that Mr. Dole was "practicing the politics of the past -- pitting business interests against the protectors of the environment." Mr. Lockhart also challenged Mr. Dole's statistics about job loss in the timber industry, by adducing statistics from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showing that 3,100 logging and milling jobs had in fact been gained in Washington, Oregon and California during Mr. Clinton's tenure. There were 41,400 jobs lost in the same sector in the eight years President Bush was in office.
Mr. Dole's aides said their figures had come from a paid consultant to the forest industry.
 
In His Own Words
 
BOB DOLE
 
At a timber mill yesterday in Anderson, Calif.:
"This election presents some very important choices for people who work in America's timber industry. After four years in office, President Clinton now has a record on timber issues. It's not a record to be proud of, and it's certainly not a record that deserves to be continued for four more years.
The fact is we still have a system of court-managed gridlock. Timber supplies from public lands have all but disappeared, replaced by imports from other countries. And today the U.S. imports 35 percent of our lumber from Canada. That shouldn't be happening in America. We have the timber. We have the resources. We have the work force. And we have people who want jobs. And that figure has grown. More American mills have closed. More breadwinners have lost their jobs. And more communities have been devastated. These were good, family-wage jobs that kept a family together, gave them opportunities for education, gave them opportunities to spend more time with their family and gave them opportunities where only one person a family had to work. And when they disappeared, entire towns and villages were cast into depression."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At an Anderson, Calif., lumber mill, Bob Dole attacked President Clinton's environmental policies, but he used milder words than in Montana on Sunday night, when he accused Mr. Clinton of waging a "war on the West." (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); MONTANA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDERSON (CALIF); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); MONTANA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ENVIRONMENT; ELECTION ISSUES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SAW MILLS (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



649 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Judges Rule Against Law To Ban Internet Smut
Three Federal judges in New York ruled that the Government's attempts to halt indecent material on the Internet were unconstitutionally broad and voted to grant a temporary injunction against enforcing the Communications Decency Act, which President Clinton signed on Feb. 8.
The ruling added emphasis to an earlier decision in Philadelphia that affirmed First Amendment rights in cyberspace. The Justice Department plans to appeal it. [Page A11.]
 
Stocks Down in Slow Trading
Stocks fell in the slowest session of the year, 281.6 million shares, as investors awaited a raft of economic reports that could determine whether the Fed raises interest rates. The Dow industrials lost 38.47 points, and the Nasdaq composite 12.97 points. [D8.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities dropped sharply, sending the yield on the 30-year bond up to 7.09 percent, from 7.01 percent on Friday. [D15.]
 
California Bank Merger Set
First Nationwide Bank FSB has agreed to buy California Federal Bancorp for $1.2 billion in cash, or $23.50 a share. [D2.]
 
Shareholders of Carver Federal Savings Bank voted to approve a restructuring plan. [B3.]
 
Humana Executive Resigns
Humana Inc. said that its chief financial officer, W. Roger Drury, had resigned, and that it was reorganizing to improve cost controls and customer service. [D15.]
 
Broadcasters in Education Accord
The broadcast industry, acting before President Clinton convened a conference on children's television, agreed to require stations to show three hours of children's educational programming a week. [A8.]
 
Novel Rocket for Shuttle Successor
Engineers at Lockheed Martin are building a new type of engine called the aerospike that turns rocketry inside out. [C1.]
 
New Prodigy Executives
Prodigy took its first steps as an independent company under its new owner, International Wireless, and received new executives. [D2.]
 
J.& J. Sues, Opposing Arbitrator
Johnson & Johnson filed suit, seeking to overturn an arbitrator's ruling that it must hand control of its H.I.V. home-testing business back to a dismissed former executive who developed the test. [D4.]
 
Argentine Markets Hold Steady
Argentina received a much-needed vote of confidence as its financial markets remained steady, despite the ouster of Finance Minister Domingo Cavallo last week. The Merval index of the 28 most-traded stocks rose 2.8 percent, or 14.36 points, to 519.22, in heavy trading. [D7.]
 
A Firm's Rush to Go Public
GKN Securities, a New York brokerage that brings small companies to market, plans to go public itself this week, despite S.E.C. investigations hanging over its head. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D8.]
 
Selling Computers to Women
More women than ever are buying and using personal computers, but advertising for high-technology products continues to be aimed at men, a new study by Intelliquest for Conde Nast shows. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: Graph: "TODAY"
 
New-Home Sales
 June figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -4.0%
 
"YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,434.59, down 38.47
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 7.09%, up 0.08
The Dollar -- 108.14 yen, down 0.23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HUM (NYSE) (82%); JNJ (NYSE) (81%); CARV (NASDAQ) (68%); LMT (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS923130 ADMINISTRATION OF HUMAN RESOURCE PROGRAMS (EXCEPT EDUCATION, PUBLIC HEALTH & VETERANS' AFFAIRS PROGRAMS) (82%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (81%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (68%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HUMANA INC (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (81%); CARVER BANCORP INC (68%); FIRST NATIONWIDE BANK (56%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (91%); JUDGES (91%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CHILDREN (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (79%); INJUNCTIONS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); BONDS (75%); LITIGATION (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); MEN (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (55%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



650 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: AGREEMENT STRUCK ON MOST ELEMENTS FOR WELFARE BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29

 BODY:
House and Senate negotiators said today that they had reached agreement on most provisions of a welfare bill they will send to President Clinton. On several issues, it appears, they have disregarded his appeals for changes in the legislation.
The bill, scheduled for floor votes in both chambers this week, would end the Federal guarantee of cash assistance for the nation's poorest children and would instead give each state a lump sum of Federal money to run its own welfare and work programs. 
 After meeting with Mr. Clinton at the White House today, Speaker Newt Gingrich said, "We have every reason to believe the President will sign this."
But Mr. Gingrich did not say why he had reached that conclusion, and White House officials said little. One Democrat on Capitol Hill said, "They don't seem to want to tell anybody" what the President will do.
As the Congressional negotiators moved to resolve differences between the two chambers, they moderated the most stringent provisions of the House bill. But contrary to what Mr. Clinton had said he hoped for, they did not grant benefits beyond those offered in the Senate bill.
For example, the conferees agreed that legal immigrants who have not become citizens should generally be denied benefits and that families dropped from welfare should not be eligible for vouchers to buy supplies for their children.
In a joint news conference today, religious, civil rights and antipoverty groups joined representatives of labor unions in saying the bill was beyond repair and should be vetoed. Among the groups were the National Urban League, the Children's Defense Fund, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Union of American Hebrew Congregations.
Their news conference kicked off a weeklong lobbying effort by critics of the bill and its supporters alike, among them Republican governors, who urged Mr. Clinton today to sign it.
For Mr. Clinton, a major question now is whether to speak out before Congress votes on the revised measure, so as to influence the outcome. If he is silent or equivocal, many Democrats will most likely cross over and join Republicans in supporting the bill. Democrats on both sides of the Capitol said tonight that they were pleading with the White House for a clear signal of the President's intentions.
A White House official said, "From what we have heard, it's encouraging that the conferees are staying close to the Senate bill," which the President prefers over the House version. But "we have not seen the final product yet," said the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
Another Administration official said, "The President's Cabinet is at odds with his political advisers on the question of whether he should sign or veto the welfare bill." Cabinet officers express scorn for the bill, while the political advisers want Mr. Clinton to sign it to show that he is in step with public opinion, this official said.
Welfare has emerged as a major issue in this year's Presidential race, and Mr. Clinton, who promised during his 1992 campaign to "end welfare as we know it," has repeatedly said he wants to sign a bill overhauling the welfare system.
But if he signs the bill that he will receive in the next few days, he will alienate many of his most loyal constituents within the liberal wing of the Democratic Party.
Democrats have been involved in meetings of the conference committee but say they have played only a limited role in major decisions. A top Democratic Congressional aide, who had fragmentary information on the agreement now emerging, said the Republicans had moderated the bill and "sanded down the rough edges except in the area of restricting benefits for legal immigrants, where they perceive no political disadvantage in being barbaric."
On the other hand, Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, defended the Republicans' decision to deny most forms of public assistance to legal immigrants who have not become citizens. "There must be a distinction between citizens and noncitizens," Mr. Smith said in an interview. "Shouldn't we give priority to needy citizens rather than people who have voluntarily chosen to retain their allegiance to another country?"
The conference committee decided to retain a broad prohibition that would make noncitizen immigrants ineligible for food stamps, Supplemental Security Income and most other types of public assistance financed by the Federal Government. The conferees agreed to make an exception for Head Start, job training and some education programs that would, in effect, help immigrants help themselves.
And House and Senate negotiators said they had decided to give states the option of providing or denying Medicaid to legal immigrants already in the United States.
But a Republican Congressional aide involved in the negotiations said, "Under no circumstances will we allow handouts -- cash welfare -- to go to noncitizens."
The conferees also decided to buttress a five-year lifetime limit on cash welfare by prohibiting states from using Federal block grants to provide vouchers or other noncash benefits to families who reach the limit. Mr. Clinton had sought such vouchers to help families buy diapers, clothing, medicine and school supplies for their children.
While the conferees will make clear that states cannot provide vouchers with money they receive under welfare block grants, however, the states could finance them under a separate law that authorizes social services for the poor.
Negotiators said they had also agreed on tough new work requirements for food-stamp recipients. Adults who are unemployed and have no dependents could get food stamps for a maximum of six months in any three-year period.
This is less harsh than the provision in the House bill, which would have allowed a person who was not working and had no dependents to receive food stamps for only three months out of the entire 32-year period from age 18 to age 50.
The Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, denounced the House provision on food stamps today, saying it was "one of the most egregious examples of the extremist approach the House took on welfare reform."
Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said that even the compromise provision was draconian, because it would deny food stamps to people who were willing to work but unable to find jobs. He estimated that 900,000 people could lose benefits.
Republicans said the public supported this type of work requirement. Mr. Lott said it was unthinkable that people should "be able to get food stamps indefinitely, every year forever."
House and Senate negotiators said they had tentatively decided to drop the idea of a food-stamp block grant, which would have been an option for the states under the House bill but not under the Senate version. The final bill thus keeps the Federal guarantee of food stamps for the poor, with uniform eligibility standards and benefit amounts, as Mr. Clinton wanted.
But the compromise bill would still cut projected spending on food stamps by roughly $24 billion over six years, with at least $3 billion more saved by denying food stamps to legal immigrants. Thus, it appears, the conferees did not scale back these cuts, as Mr. Clinton had wanted.
The conferees have tentatively agreed to bar illegal immigrant children from the national school lunch program, even though such children are legally allowed to attend public schools. But they have not decided what penalties, if any, should be imposed on schools that serve subsidized lunches to those children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On behalf of the Republican governors, John Engler of Michigan yesterday urged the President to sign the welfare bill emerging from Congress. He was joined by the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott. (Associated Press) (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); REPUBLICAN OF TEXAS (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); REPUBLICAN OF TEXAS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR UNIONS; STATES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF LEGISLATION (92%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); REFUGEES (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); CITIZENSHIP (54%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); TRENT LOTT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



651 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3426 words

HEADLINE: President Finds Benefits In Defeat on Health Care

SERIES: THE CLINTON RECORD: Health Care -- Third of seven articles.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES and ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29

 BODY:
It has been three years since President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, set out to transform American medicine with a plan for universal, affordable health care. And today, signs of revolution are everywhere.
Health maintenance organizations are booming: more than 58 million Americans are enrolled in prepaid health plans. Three in four doctors have converted at least part of their private practice into work for the H.M.O.'s and health-care companies that increasingly control the supply of patients and the cost of treatments. Patrician medical establishments -- like Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan -- that once seemed impervious to commercial pressures are racing into mergers to guarantee their survival. 
 In some respects, it is what the Clintons' army of health-care cognoscenti envisioned: medicine made more affordable by a long-overdue dose of competition.
But it is not the President's revolution. Mr. and Mrs. Clinton's proposed overhaul foundered in Congress two years ago, a spectacular defeat that overshadowed other Administration goals and left the President nearly mute on the subject. Indeed, the President has passed on opportunities to attack Republicans in Congress for blocking what was, by any measure, a revolutionary change in domestic policy.
Looking back, it is difficult to believe that Mr. Clinton's health plan was the very centerpiece of his Presidency -- "our most urgent priority," as he told Congress in a grand unveiling of the plan in September 1993. Then, the health-care system was not just in crisis, but was an imminent threat to the financial security of American families.
"Millions of Americans are just a pink slip away from losing their health insurance, and one serious illness away from losing all their savings," Mr. Clinton told Congress then. "And on any given day, 37 million Americans, most of them working people and their little children, have no health insurance at all."
Some three years later, 40 million Americans are without health insurance. And the Administration's principal legacy in health-care policy has been to get out of the way while states and big corporations swiftly remake the system.
They are transforming it with stunning speed. It is a process that some experts in health policy credit the White House for accelerating, but that others say has kept health care prohibitively expensive for the uninsured and subordinated the quality of care to the drive for profits.
"By putting the health-care reform issue on the table, President Clinton catalyzed a lot of action in the private sector, the private marketplace," said Ronald M. Hollander, president of the Massachusetts Hospital Association. "It drove everybody to develop strategies for dealing with that change."
Other experts say Mr. Clinton's failure and subsequent retreat permanently set back efforts to expand the guarantee of basic medical care to everyone, not just the poor and the elderly already covered by Medicaid and Medicare.
"He destroyed the chances for a very significant and productive reform of the health-care system," said Prof. Alain C. Enthoven, a Stanford University economist and 1992 Clinton supporter who devised the concept at the core of the President's plan, called managed competition. "He blew a historic opportunity."
The President agreed in an interview this month that his policy reach had exceeded his political grasp.
"I overestimated the extent to which a person elected with a minority of the votes, in an environment that was complex, to say the least, could make -- could achieve in a sweeping overhaul of the health-care system," Mr. Clinton said.
His ambitious plan was stonewalled by Republicans, whom the White House had largely ignored during its long gestation, and pummeled by insurance and business lobbies who saw it as a threat. In the end, it was rejected by a public that came to see it as a bid to replace their family doctor with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles writ large.
Now, asked in an interview to describe his priorities for a second term, the President addresses health care in this way: "I think we need to look at what we can do to try to find ways for people to hold on to health insurance if they have sustained periods of unemployment, if they outrun their ability to maintain their old health insurance policy because their employer is not obligated to pay anymore."
Prominent by its absence was any hint that Mr. Clinton would again try any thorough reshaping of the system. Since the collapse of his 1993 proposal, the words "universal health care" have vanished from the President's vocabulary and dropped off his legislative agenda.
It is now the Republican Congress that is pressing for overhaul, at least of the Federal Medicaid and Medicare programs. And it is Mr. Clinton who has become, in some eyes, the chief defender of the status quo.
Bruce C. Vladeck, administrator of the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, which supervises the two programs, said the President was acting out of necessity. "To the extent that playing defense is an accomplishment," Mr. Vladeck said, "I think we've prevented destruction of the Medicaid program and significant damage to the Medicare program, with the President's veto of the Balanced Budget Act. That's a pretty significant accomplishment."
In presenting himself as the savior of those popular benefit programs, Mr. Clinton has done much to save his own political career as well. Opposing the Republicans' health-care proposals was one cause on which the White House and Democrats in Congress could agree. And it has become an important element in the revival of the party's popularity in the last year.
 
The Initiative
Bold Move to Assure Universal Coverage
What Mr. Clinton envisioned in his 1993 health-care plan was what Democratic leaders from Harry S. Truman had failed to produce: guaranteed, affordable health care for everyone, with benefits that would meet every basic medical need.
Mr. Clinton's thesis was simple: everyone should be required to join a health-care plan, and business should have to provide coverage for all workers. Health-care providers should be required to accept all comers. No patient would escape paying a share of the nation's medical bill. No doctor or insurer would be able to pass the health-care buck by leaving the sickest and poorest patients for someone else to treat. Competition among the newly equalized health-care providers would improve quality and hold down costs.
But what was simple in principle proved devilishly complex in the details. The flywheel of the Clinton plan was a scheme called managed competition, in which networks of doctors, hospitals and other health-care providers competed for patients. Among other concerns, critics worried that too few would serve rural states like Idaho or Montana to generate the competition needed to hold costs down.
So the plan proposed a National Health Board to oversee the operation of the health-care system and monitor the quality of care, as well as to set a national health budget to make sure costs stayed in line. To keep insurance both universal and affordable, it proposed to require employers to pick up 80 percent of the cost of any health-care plan their workers chose, an "employer mandate" that later became a significant issue in the debate.
And to keep everyone in the same system -- the key to controlling buck-passing and containing inflation -- the President proposed partially folding Medicaid and Medicare into the system while retaining their Federal subsidies.
Supporters called the proposal visionary. But some critics accused the White House of trying to nationalize health care and impose price controls on medical services.
As one, small businesses rebelled against being forced to buy health plans for workers, arguing that the cost would drive many into bankruptcy. The White House said it was open to other ways of paying for the plan, but it neither proposed nor endorsed any.
The insurance industry saw the plan as a competitive threat and set out to dispatch it quickly with a national advertising campaign designed to unsettle voters.
But it was the Republicans in Congress, denied any say in writing the plan and not seriously drawn into the process by the White House after its release, who may have dealt the heaviest blows. They dubbed the proposal "socialized medicine." They wielded Mr. Clinton's proposed employer mandate against him like a club, calling it proof of the President's liberal, big-Government agenda.
Congressional Democrats proved hapless. In the House, they fell to bickering over the final shape of universal health care and never managed to unite behind a single plan that could be passed. In the Senate, Republicans and Democrats could not even move a bill out of the Finance Committee.
By the time Congress went on its annual August recess in the summer of 1994, universal health care was effectively dead, except as an election issue that autumn.
The White House did not help its own cause. In truth, the President's actual proposal did confer much more power on the Government than the original fathers of managed care, like Mr. Enthoven, ever expected.
"Managed competition was meant to be a moderate, centrist approach, using market forces, minimal government controls, certainly no price controls," Mr. Enthoven said. "Clinton completely violated what he had told the American people. His plan amounted to a Government takeover of the health-care system. He talked centrist, and he tried to govern left."
Looking back, critics and admirers alike say, Mr. Clinton made a tactical error by placing his wife in charge of the task force that prepared his plan. That gave opponents the opportunity to charge that the nation's medical system was being upended by someone who was not even elected. Mrs. Clinton erred further by drafting much of the 1,700-page proposal in secret.
And her principal adviser, the private consultant and policy analyst Ira C. Magaziner, tried so hard to anticipate every possible consequence of change that the finished plan became a Rube Goldberg system beyond the comprehension of most people. Republicans created a flow chart of the proposal that resembled a street map of Istanbul, and the image of a hopelessly complicated bureaucracy designed by woolly headed academics stuck.
The President said he wanted a bipartisan bill. But by the time he was ready to strike a deal, in the summer of 1994, his plan had been so thoroughly savaged that he had little political leverage. In November, the midterm elections saw the Republican sweep of Congress, and the President's grand plan faded into history.
 
The Counterthrust
Republicans Try To Limit Federal Role
The rout of his own proposal left Mr. Clinton without a role in health policy. But as Republicans took control, he adopted a new stance: defender of the system he had vowed to change.
"I got the message of the 1994 election," Mr. Clinton told a White House audience the next summer. "And I won't let the Government mess with your Medicare."
The President left the field to the Republicans, whose idea of health-care overhaul was to reduce the Government's role as much as possible. They began by trying to wring billions of dollars out of the Medicare and Medicaid programs and promptly ran into the same political chain saw that had mowed down Mr. Clinton's plan. For the last two years, Mr. Clinton has positioned himself as a bulwark against a Congress that he says is bent on destroying medical care for poor people and the elderly.
Republicans in Congress wanted to transform Medicare gradually from a Government-run program into a voucher system controlled largely by its patients. Elderly people could remain in the program or enroll in private health plans for which the Government would pay a fixed monthly stipend. Those who wanted additional coverage would pay from their own pockets.
Republicans argued that this would inject competition into the health-care business, entice patients into cheaper, more efficient managed-care plans and drive down Medicare's cost by $168 billion over seven years, at last estimate. They also proposed to cap total annual Medicare spending for the first time.
The Republicans would have made even bigger changes for Medicaid, intending to reduce its expected growth by $85 billion over seven years. They proposed to do away with the Federal entitlement and give each state a lump sum to run its own health-care program for the poor.
Mr. Clinton's response was to denounce both proposals and then offer more cautious alternatives. His first budget for the 1996 fiscal year, issued in February 1995, did nothing to curb the cost of Medicare or Medicaid, both of which have been growing about 9 percent a year. His second budget, issued four months later, trimmed $124 billion from Medicare and some $54 billion from Medicaid, both over seven years.
Those figures were within shouting distance of the Republican proposals. But unlike the Republicans, the President would have achieved most of his savings the old-fashioned way, by trimming payments to health-care providers. His most daring proposal was to limit the annual growth in the average amount spent on a Medicaid recipient, a "per capita cap" rather than an overall limit on Medicaid spending.
Anything more, he said time and again, was radical Republican extremism.
"The status quo is not an option," Mr. Clinton told the White House Conference on Aging in May 1995, but "I will not support proposals to slash these programs."
Paradoxically, while the White House and Congress have radically different ideas about the Government's role, their notions about how to improve Medicare and Medicaid have often turned out to be quite similar.
Mr. Clinton and the Republican majority both wanted to create a more competitive market by moving beneficiaries into H.M.O.'s. Both envisioned substantial cuts in the growth of Medicare spending. Both wanted to give the states more freedom to run Medicaid programs -- and, Mr. Clinton, in fact, has given 13 states waivers to do so.
But there was a defining difference. Mr. Clinton would have made his changes within strict Federal guidelines, with ironclad guarantees of benefits for anyone who qualified. The Republicans would have left far more of the choice to states and to individuals.
"The ultimate question is whether health care is a social good or a market commodity," said John C. Rother, chief lobbyist at the American Association of Retired Persons. "If you believe health care is a commodity, like food or automobiles or clothes, then that leads you down one road. If it's a social good, like public education or clean air, you go down another."
While the deadlock between Republicans and Democrats has blocked any meaningful change in Government health programs, both parties have been rewarded with surges of public support -- the Republicans in 1994 and the Democrats this year.
 
The Future
Looking for Solutions For Troubles Now
The President gives little indication that he wants to grapple with health-care overhaul in a second term. To the contrary, he now seems dedicated to smoothing the ragged edges of the system the nation already has.
In the interview, Mr. Clinton said he hoped to find a way to keep Medicare's vast hospital insurance trust fund solvent for the next 10 years while a bipartisan commission devised a long-term solution for the program. The trust fund is projected to go bankrupt in 2001, leading most experts to agree that whoever is elected President this year will have to prop it up, and soon.
In the short run, Mr. Clinton said, he just wants to keep Republicans from making basic changes, like allowing beneficiaries to leave the program, that he believes would threaten the coverage of the elderly poor. In the early days, Mr. Clinton had declared it imperative that everyone have health insurance. Today, he speaks of the plight of the uninsured primarily as a warning of what the elderly stand to lose.
"My idea of changing Medicare is not to leave lower-middle-class seniors in the same position that lower-middle-class non-seniors are in in America," he said. "You know, the people that don't have health insurance in America are the non-senior, nonpoor, not-quite good middle-class people, by and large. These are the people without any health insurance. And what I didn't want to do was to see us make structural changes in the Medicare program which would recreate in the senior population the same problems we've got in the non-senior population."
The President said he hoped to sign some version of Senate legislation, sponsored by Senators Nancy Landon Kassebaum of Kansas and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, which would enable workers to take their health insurance with them when they change jobs. In a second term, he said, his next step would be to find some way to insure people who remain jobless for long stretches.
Whatever the President could do to give more people access to health care, the future of the system seems certain to be charted not by a National Health Board or a global health-care budget, but by the market.
Who will benefit and what the costs for individuals and the nation will be are still being sorted out.
With the rise of for-profit medicine, "many exciting innovations are occurring in medical practice, including more emphasis on preventive care," said Robert H. Miller, a health economist at the University of California in San Francisco. "But the current competition is substantially different from what was envisioned by the architects of managed competition."
Mr. Rother, of the American Association of Retired Persons, has a sarcastic name for what has emerged: "unmanaged competition."
"In a way," Mr. Rother said, "both parties sort of stubbed their toes on this. H.M.O.'s are taking over at a very rapid rate. It's slowed the growth of health-care costs for people under 65, but it's also caused a lot of dislocation and confusion."
On the one hand, health-care spending grew more slowly in 1994 than in any other year since 1960, and many employers say insurance premiums have leveled off or even declined. On the other hand, the President's campaign pledge to make health care "a right, not a privilege" has gone unmet, while the ranks of the uninsured have grown.
Small businesses and the self-employed have few protections that Mr. Clinton proposed in 1993, leaving them to wrestle unassisted with the cost of medical coverage.
Mr. Miller, who has studied changes in 15 communities across the country, said that "while the creation of health-care networks helps develop the potential for improving the health-care system, it does not necessarily lead to improvements" in the quality of care. So far, he said, health plans and health-care providers are competing on price more often than on quality.
Dr. Samuel O. Thier, chief executive of the Partners Health Care System in Boston, said the absence of a Federal policy had created a vacuum that had been filled by managed-care companies driven by profit.
That system, Dr. Thier said, "is not driven by any commitment to broadening access to care. There is little incentive for managed-care companies to serve the uninsured."
The public also appears apprehensive. In a New York Times poll conducted from June 20 to 23, nearly one-third of the 1,121 people surveyed -- 32 percent -- said the health-care system had gotten worse since Mr. Clinton became President. Only 12 percent said it had gotten better.
That may sound ominous for an incumbent seeking re-election. But two-thirds of respondents blamed the Republican Congress more than the President for the failure to enact universal health insurance.
In fact, Mr. Clinton may have emerged with a political windfall of sorts. Public criticism of the unsettling changes in health care -- changes very much akin to what his plan might have engendered -- is being borne by big insurance companies and big H.M.O.'s, not big Government.
"All the criticism being leveled against the market would have been leveled even more ferociously against the Government," Stuart H. Altman, a professor of national health policy at Brandeis University, said in a recent interview. "As it turned out, the best thing that ever happened to the Government, for this purpose, was not to have passed the Clinton bill."
Next: The environment

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 1996, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about President Clinton's record on health care misstated the Senate's legislative record on the matter. The Senate Finance Committee did approve a bill in July 1994 that would have extended health insurance to 95 percent of the population by 2002, but the bill stalled in debate on the Senate floor and never came to a vote.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Under the ambitious plan outlined in 1993, this "health security identification card" would have symbolized every American's right to medical coverage. (pg. A1); THE OPENING ROUND -- In his 1994 State of the Union Message, President Clinton held up a pen and told Congress, "If you send me legislation that does not guarantee every American health insurance that can never be taken away, you will force me to take this pen, veto the legislation, and we'll come right back here and start over again. (Associated Press); THE FINAL STAGES -- A month before far-reaching health-care legislation was laid to rest, Hillary Rodham Clinton listened to a rally of Senate supporters in July 1994. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. B8)
 
Graph: "FOR THE RECORD: Growing Number of Uninsured" tracks number of Americans without health insurance, from 1987 through 1994. (Source: Census Bureau) (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MEDICARE; MEDICAID HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); MEDICAID (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); MEDICARE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1996



652 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls as Traders See Less Prospect for a Rate Rise

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most leading currencies yesterday after economic data dampened hopes for higher United States interest rates.
"We have been expecting a rate rise for three months," said Tom Benfer, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal branch in New York. "The prospects for no change in Fed policy is responsible for the dollar having a soft time today." 
 The dollar also came under pressure as Sweden cut a key interest rate, aiding the German mark.
In trading in New York late yesterday, the dollar stood at 107.91 Japanese yen, down from 108.14 yen on Monday. The dollar traded at 1.4766 marks, down from 1.4802. The British pound fell to $1.5565 from $1.5585.
The dollar gained in early New York trading, following the United States bond market higher, after the Labor Department reported that wages and salaries rose nine-tenths of a percent for the March to June quarter, seasonally adjusted. The report indicated that wage pressures were not quite as strong as expected.
But the dollar soon reversed course as the report, as well as data showing a drop of 5.3 percent in sales of new homes in June, suggested that the Federal Reserve would have less reason to raise short-term interest rates.
Many currency traders had been betting on an increase in rates, which typically bolsters the value of the dollar by making dollar-denominated deposits more attractive to foreign investors.
Still, traders will be looking for further clues to the direction of United States interest rates this week, in particular Friday's report on July employment.
The dollar also weakened as the mark gained against the Italian lira,
French franc and Swedish krona.
The mark gained after the Swedish bank reduced its repurchase rate by 15 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point.
"Mark gains in Europe are helping to underscore the weak dollar tone," said Marc Chandler, a senior analyst at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell in New York. "It is unclear what it will take to turn around dollar psychology."
In other trading, the dollar fell to 1.2023 Swiss francs, from 1.2063 Swiss francs on Monday, and to 5.0080 French francs from 5.0210 francs. The dollar was unchanged at 1,526 Italian lire.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (84%); BMO (NYSE) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (91%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, PQ, CANADA (57%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (91%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (57%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MONTREAL, PQ, CANADA (57%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); BONDS (73%); BANK BRANCHES (72%); BOND MARKETS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



653 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Reports Push Bonds Up Sharply

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury securities prices rose sharply yesterday, as Government reports on wages and housing eased investor concern that the current rate of growth would accelerate inflation and cause fixed-income investments to drop in value. In fact, bonds turned in their best performance in more than a week and nearly recouped all the Monday losses.
The 30-year benchmark issue rose 21/32 , to 878/32 ; the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 7.03 percent, from 7.09 percent on Monday. 
 But traders know that with a large amount of economic data still to be released this week, the market is far from out of the woods.
Today's refunding announcement by the Treasury will give market participants an idea on the size of the Government's quarterly refunding next week; also set for release today is the July Chicago Purchasing Managers survey.
Those reports are to be followed tomorrow by the July National Association of Purchasing Management survey; initial weekly unemployment claims; auto sales; preliminary second-quarter gross domestic product, and June construction orders. And on Friday, the Government is set to release its employment report on the number of jobs added to the economy in July.
Yesterday, the Labor Department released its quarterly employment cost index, the measure of total compensation for employment, including pensions and health benefits. The index showed a gain of eight-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter, at the low end of expectations.
Another Government report showed that sales of new homes slid 5.3 percent in June, reversing a 1.2 percent rise in May, which had been revised sharply downward itself from an original estimated gain of 7.5 percent. Weekly retail sales figures also showed enough softness to keep bond prices higher, despite a rise in the Conference Board's consumer confidence index to 107.2 in July from 100.1 in June.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "A lower-than-expected reading on the employment cost index, due in part to revisions to back data, buoyed the bond market despite a jump in the consumer confidence index and a pace for new-home sales that is still strong by historical standards."
Concerning the employment cost index, Mr. Fine said that led by the wages and salaries component, the index "certainly has had less inflationary undertones than had been feared, but at the same time, its rising trend may prove to be a problem in the future."
The surge in consumer confidence in July, Mr. Fine said, was due to large gains in both the respondents' appraisals of their present situations as well as their expectations for the future. In both, he said, the employment picture was seen as bright.
As far as the June new-home sales, they dropped to an annual rate of 734,000 from a downwardly revised May level of 775,000. But these monthly levels are still rather healthy, Mr. Fine said, and had yet to conclusively demonstrate any impact from higher interest rates.
Larry M. Berman, senior fixed-income analyst with Technical Data in Boston, said that the employment cost index did not relieve any of the mystery surrounding what the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee, which sets interest rate policy, might do at its Aug. 20th meeting.
"With the market now focused on key data releases later this week, we expect the 30-year bond to trade between a yield of 7.01 percent and 7 percent until we see nonfarm payroll data on Friday," he said.
While Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has laid out in testimony before Congress the Fed's forecast of slowing economic growth and moderating inflation for the rest of 1996 and into 1997, there is a risk that the growth is stronger than the central bank anticipates. Peter J. Canelo, chief investment strategist at Dean Witter Reynolds, thinks Mr. Greenspan is right. "Even if the anticipated slowdown does not proceed as smoothly as the Fed might prefer," Mr. Canelo said, "we expect some moderation in real economic growth and inflation, which should enable bond yields to settle down in the coming months and help the stock market return to its highs."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); TRENDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (77%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



654 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Anne Simon, 82, Who Wrote of Threats to the Sea

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Anne W. Simon, an environmentalist whose books explored the perils to the world's seas and shorelines, particularly on her beloved Martha's Vineyard, died on Monday at her Manhattan home. She was 82 and also had a home in Chilmark, Mass.
At her death she was working on a book on the changing nature of Martha's Vineyard and what might be done to save the island where she had summered for many years. An article based on its first chapter was published in the July issue of the monthly Martha's Vineyard Magazine. 
 The article echoed her earlier book, "No Island Is an Island: The Ordeal of Martha's Vineyard" (1973). There she told the tale of how the Vineyard, after hundreds of years of slumber, surrendered to tract subdivisions, an explosion of second homes, sewage spillovers and traffic jams.
Another volume, "The Thin Edge: Coast and Man in Crisis" (1978), discussed the precarious state of dunes and beaches, wetlands and estuaries everywhere that economic development reaches them. "Neptune's Revenge: The Ocean of Tomorrow" (1984) was an unsparing critique of the environmental damage to oceans from oil spills, overfishing, the greenhouse effect and the dumping of sewage, toxins and radioactive waste.
Anne Wertheim was born in Cos Cob, Conn., and in 1935 graduated from Smith College, where she edited the campus newspaper. She earned a master's degree at the School of Social Work of Columbia University.
She was a writer at radio station WNYC, became a television critic for The Nation and subsequently wrote for McCall's, Good Housekeeping and other periodicals. Her first book was "Stepchild in the Family: A View of Children in Remarriage" (1964), a primer based on her own experience as a stepchild and as a stepparent.
She was married three times and had taken the surname of her last husband, Prof. Walter Werner, while keeping her pen name. He died in 1986. Her previous marriages, to Dr. Louis Langman and Robert Simon, ended in divorce.
She is survived by a son and three daughters from her first marriage: Thomas Langman of Washington, Betsy L. Schulberg of Westhampton Beach, L.I., Lynn L. Lilienthal of Reston, Va., and Deborah L. Lesser of Berkeley, Calif., and 11 grandchildren.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (90%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (90%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OCEANS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); STEPPARENTS (86%); MARRIAGE (86%); BEACHES (78%); WETLANDS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); OIL SPILLS (51%); 

PERSON: SIMON, ANNE W; SAXON, WOLFGANG ANNE W SIMON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



655 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Public Endorses Uplifting Movies, Dole Tells Hollywood

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 30

 BODY:
Returning to the place and theme that helped jump-start his Presidential campaign 14 months ago, Bob Dole today offered a revised view of Hollywood, asserting that the public rewards films that celebrate American values and rejects those that depict excessive sex and violence.
Mr. Dole, who a year ago scolded film makers for producing a "nightmare of depravity," said today he was returning to Hollywood to "praise what is best in your industry." He offered a list of commercially successful films that he asserted proved the public will patronize movies that "raise our vision of life instead of dragging us down." 
 "The American people are rejecting entertainment that insults our intelligence and offends our sense of decency," Mr. Dole said, speaking on the padded sound stage at 20th Century Fox, where "Alien 4" will begin shooting next month, and blocks away from the faux New York backdrop of grafitti-marked buildings that is a set for the television series "N.Y.P.D. Blue."
"We are rejecting films that deride our country and our values," Mr. Dole said in his 20-minute speech, which his campaign had previewed as a major address. "As consumers with choices and as people with standards, the great majority of us are rejecting the very idea that art must offend and degrade, instead of uplift and inspire."
By way of evidence, Mr. Dole pointed to the commercial failure of the movie "Striptease," and the successes of "Forrest Gump," "Apollo 13," "Independence Day," "Braveheart" and "Babe." He was holding them up "in the hope that others will follow your example."
"Some in the industry may wish to produce movies that are degrading, debasing, tawdry, second-rate, antiheroic," he said. "I would ask them to spare us the market-made-me-do-it excuse. This is a free country. No one is forcing you to do anything."
In tone and substance, Mr. Dole's speech was markedly different from the one of a year ago. At that time, bowing to the strong urging of aides worried about his then-struggling nomination campaign, Mr. Dole upbraided studio executives and asserted that they shared responsibility for undermining American culture. Today, he spoke of what he said were the accomplishments of the film industry, and suggested that market forces should reinforce that trend.
Mr. Dole's aides said his remarks today were not intended to telegraph a new view about movies, or to suggest that the tenor of filmmaking had changed appreciably as a result of his original criticism. William J. Bennett, a former Education Secretary who is traveling with Mr. Dole and had urged him to deliver the speech, described it as a "nuanced" effort to make the same point that Mr. Dole had made a year ago, but approaching it from a different perspective.
Still, Mr. Dole's speech today reflects the fact that his political needs are markedly different now from what they were a year ago, when he was in a heated contest for the Republican Presidential nomination, and needed to court conservatives suspicious of his credentials on social issues. His position today is more complicated, as he tries to position himself in the political center in preparation for the fall campaign, while attempting to draw cultural distinctions between himself and President Clinton.
Mr. Dole is also being counseled by advisers like Mr. Bennett that the way to revive his anemic campaign is to stress cultural and social issues, rather than solely pursue the economic course that his other advisers have pushed. Mr. Bennett, riding from Hollywood to an Orange County enclave of Republicans where Mr. Dole gave a second, shorter address, compared the influence of the film industry today to the Roman Catholic Church in the Middle Ages. "I believe what is done here has more impact on the country overall then what is done in Washington: the country's sense of itself, its morale, and its direction," Mr. Bennett said.
If nothing else, today's speeches were intended to do for Mr. Dole what the one a year ago did: draw attention to his campaign. That speech, as Mr. Dole noted with some satisfaction today, "continued a national debate," as it caught the attention of columnists, editorialists and talk show hosts across the country.
Today, Mr. Dole, obviously eager to reignite that spark, spoke from Stage 15 on the 20th Century Fox lot, standing in front of a mural painting of the Hollywood Hills, with red and blue spotlights framing the stage on each side.
Mr. Dole went out of his way to say he was not urging film makers to produce only "feel-good movies," adding, "None of wants to live in a Muzak culture without variety, tension or depth."
He offered the movie "Schindler's List" as an example of a movie that was socially redeeming. Mr. Dole also said he thought violence was acceptable in some cases. The violence in "Braveheart," he said, was "true to the story -- some have been there -- a story of men fighting for freedom, not just brutality thrown in there for the shock and thrill of it."
But it did appear, as the day went on, that the candidate was having some second-thoughts on "Independence Day," a movie about an attempted takeover of the Earth by alien invaders that he saw with Mr. Bennett in preparation for his speech and that he has plugged as an example of a film that celebrated American values. Mr. Dole said that as much as he enjoyed the movie, which depicts the violent destruction of major American cities by the alien spaceships, he might not suggest it for a child under 13 or 14.
The only movie Mr. Dole singled out for criticism was "Striptease," which Mr. Dole's aides said he did not see, saying its commercial failure proved his point. Patronage outside movie theaters, Mr. Dole said, showed that "by a landslide margin, Americans are choosing the good over the grotesque; excellence over exploitation; quiet virtue over gratuitous violence, and character over pointless cruelty."
Mr. Dole's point about the success of such movies was correct, though not complete. Some of the most successful films in recent years have been action and violence films like "Pulp Fiction," and the "Lethal Weapon" and "Die Hard" series.
Mr. Dole's remarks received restrained applause from his audience. Jack Valenti, a onetime aide to President Lyndon B. Johnson who as president of the Motion Picture Association of America helped devise the movie rating system 22 years ago, said he had no quarrels with Mr. Dole's remarks, but added:
"To many Congressmen and Senators right now, there's a ceaseless antagonism toward Hollywood because politically, it is high-reward and low-risk," Mr. Valenti said after hearing Mr. Dole speak. "So when you can't do anything about poverty or the budget deficit, and you can't deal with Bosnia or the possibility of nuclear explosions in Russia, what do you do? You bash Hollywood and get on the front pages."
 
In His Own Words
 
BOB DOLE
 
Speaking yesterday at 20th Century Fox studios in Los Angeles:
 
"Your freedom is yours to use as you wish, so let's dispense with a familiar myth. It's the usual response offered in defense of gratuitous violence, casual sex and generally cheap behavior in some movies. I'm referring to that familiar line, 'We're only giving the public what it wants.'
 We've all heard that line.
 There are other lines I find more convincing, the lines outside America's theaters. It's clear that by far most of the public wants something better, and we know that Hollywood is capable of producing better. Now some in the industry may wish to produce movies that are degrading, debasing, tawdry, second rate, anti-heroic, but I would ask them to spare us the 'market made me do it' excuse. This is a free country. No one is forcing you to do anything.
 Besides, in Hollywood today, the big story is that respectability is good business. You can watch your ratings rise and your box-office receipts go up, and still look yourself in the mirror. You can put your money at risk, while still keeping you artistic integrity. If our ticket windows are a kind of cultural ballot box, then the results are in and we can call a winner. By a landslide, Americans are choosing the good over the grotesque, excellence over exploitation, quiet virtue over gratuitous violence, and character over pointless cruelty. . . .
 The values I have spoken about in this campaign, and which I will continue to speak about in confident and unapologetic ways, are not intolerant values. They're what make us kind and civil toward one another. They're what make tolerance possible in a country of many faiths, and unity possible in a country with one future. Far from being divisive, those principles are what keep this country together.
 So I would just leave you with a reminder that cynicism is contagious, but so, too, is decency. Anyone with influence over our culture has to choose one or the other. And maybe no one expressed that choice better than Clark Gable's character, Rhett Butler, in 'Gone With the Wind.' He says: 'What most people don't seem to realize is that there is just as much money to be made out of the wreckage of a civilization as from the upbuilding of one. I'm making my fortune out of the wreckage.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Americans are rejecting violent and indecent films, Bob Dole told employees of 20th Century Fox yesterday at a sound stage in Los Angeles. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTIETH CENTURY FOX

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; SEX; VIOLENCE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DOLE, BOB BOB DOLE (97%); WILLIAM J BENNETT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



656 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Sales of New Homes Plunge, Suggesting Slower Economy

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes fell in June, while consumer confidence surged in July, two reports showed yesterday.
The Commerce Department said that sales of new single-family homes fell 5.3 percent in June as higher mortgage rates hurt demand. 
 The report suggested that the economy might be slowing. Sales declined in two of the nation's four regions in June. Besides the 29.3 percent drop in the Midwest, they declined 4.8 percent in the South. Sales rose 26.6 percent in the Northeast and 1.4 percent in the West.
Sales of new homes in May were also revised downward. Sales rose just 1.2 percent that month, rather than the huge 7.5 percent jump reported previously.
The average home sales price in June rose to $163,300 from $162,700 in May, while the median sales price was up to $140,000 from $136,400.
 "The economy should slow down," said Brian Wesbury, chief economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson, a Chicago-based investment firm. "The second quarter was a catch-up for the weak winter growth."
Still, consumer attitudes about the economy remain upbeat. The Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence unexpectedly advanced to 107.2 in July -- the highest level in more than six years.
"Consumers are clearly confident about current economic conditions and anticipate further economic growth in the months ahead," said Edgar Fiedler, a Conference Board vice president.
July's reading of 107.2, which follows a revised June reading of 100.1, was the highest since May 1990. About 5,000 households are surveyed on their attitudes toward business conditions, jobs and their paychecks. Consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of economic activity.
Yesterday's survey mirrors a similar index issued July 19 by the University of Michigan. That survey, which some analysts consider less volatile than the Conference Board report, registered a gain in consumer sentiment during July. The University of Michigan survey is released only to subscribers.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing new private homes sold and median price for new homes from Jan. 1995 to June 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD GRIFFIN KUBIK STEPHENS & THOMPSON INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); UNITED STATES ECONOMY NEW HOME SALES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (65%); MORTGAGE RATES (57%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



657 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
Digital Posts $433 Million Deficit in Quarter

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 30

 BODY:
The Digital Equipment Corporation posted a $433 million deficit in its fiscal fourth quarter today after taking a $492 million charge to pay for 7,000 job cuts and plant closings.
Digital, the nation's third-largest computer maker, warned analysts earlier this month that it would take a restructuring charge to cover an 11 percent cut in its 60,900-member work force and close 3.5 million square feet of space at manufacturing plants and distribution sites. 
 Without the charge, income at the struggling computer maker, which is based in Maynard, Mass., fell to $59 million, or 33 cents a share, from $160 million, or $1.01 a share.
Digital's chief executive, Robert Palmer, said that the fourth-quarter loss was only a temporary setback to the company's year-and-a-half recovery after years of multibillion-dollar losses.
"In many respects, our turnaround suffered a slight setback in the quarter," Mr. Palmer said. "I'm confident that Digital will overcome today's challenges and achieve a level of growth that is comparable with industry leaders. I expect a more stronger and profitable year in fiscal '97."
Seventy-five percent of the $492 million charge went to cover the costs of cutting 7,000 jobs across across all of Digital's businesses, Mr. Palmer said. The company cut 1,800 jobs in the fourth quarter to end the year with 59,100, its smallest work force in 15 years, he said.
Mr. Palmer said that Digital had seen strong growth in its Alpha systems work station business, with Alpha revenue up 34 percent from a year ago, driven by demand for its new midrange server, called the 4100 Alpha Server, and the high-end 8000 Alpha Server. Servers are computers that link PC's in a network.
But the personal computer business continued to struggle, with revenue at the unit falling 3 percent in the fourth quarter from the comparable period a year earlier.
Mr. Palmer squelched speculation that the company would quit the PC business, saying that it was important for Digital to provide a wide range of products to support its growing work station business.
Mr. Palmer, who took over the PC business earlier this month, backed away from an earlier suggestion that he would soon name a new chief to the division.
Enrico Pesatori, who joined Digital to head the PC division and became Mr. Palmer's apparent successor, resigned July 1 after the division's earnings were hurt by rising inventories.
"I'm not actively looking for a replacement for Enrico at this point," Mr. Palmer said.
Digital said that as it had previously indicated, revenue in some European markets was down in part as a result of an economic slowdown and currency fluctuations. The company said it did well in other markets like Japan, Britain, Italy and Latin America.
Digital has moved to strengthen its management and expand its direct sales force in Europe.
Digital also announced today that it would buy back 10 million of its more than 155.5 million outstanding shares.
"The buyback is obviously going to impact the stock on a positive note," a trader said. "But if the buyback wasn't announced, you wouldn't be doing cart wheels over this number."
Digital shares were up 62.5 cents, to $36.125, on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday after rising as high as $37.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Digital Equipment Corp. (DEC,N)"

Qtr. to June 29	1996	1995	%Ch	Rev.	3,719,252,000	3,749,867,000	-0.8	Net loss	b432,838,000	c159,766,000	 	Sh. earn	(2.87)	1.01	 	Sh. out.	153,976,000	149,931,000	 	Yr. rev.	14,562,775,000	13,813,062,000	+5.8	Net loss	b111,812,000	c121,818,000	 	Sh. earn	(.97)	.59	 	Sh. out.	152,052,000	146,331,000	 	
 
b-Included restructuring charges of $492 million. Excluding charges, net income would have been $59 million, or 33 cents a share, for the quarter and $380 million, or $2.23 a share, for the year.
 
c-Net income, and the year included a benefit of $64,503,000, or 44 cents a share, from the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.
(Loss)
Per share earnings are after preferred stock dividends.
Revenues are total operating revenues.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$36.125
up 62.5
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (69%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DIGITAL EQUIPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS LAYOFFS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CURRENCIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: PALMER, ROBERT ROBERT PALMER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



658 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Will a Tax Cut Help Dole?

BYLINE: By Herbert Stein; Herbert Stein, a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, was chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers under Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
So here's Bob Dole, trying to decide what to do about taxes. All of his associates, many of whom want him to win so they can be big shots in a Dole administration, want him to come out for a big tax cut. They say that he's so far behind that it is the only thing that will save him.
To show him that's not only good politics but also good economics, his advisers trot out a bunch of economists, some of them Nobel Prize winners. They say that if we cut taxes, growth will speed up, we won't lose as much revenue as you might think, and everyone will be happy. 
 But there's another bunch of economists who say that cutting taxes will increase the deficit so much that the growth rate will slow down and everyone will be worse off. Probably some of them won Nobel Prizes, too. And there are other economists who say: Nobody knows, it could go either way, it all depends on the nature of the tax cut, among other things.
So what is Bob Dole to do? He can say to himself that even if cutting taxes is a bad idea, it's better for the country that he be elected than that Bill Clinton be re-elected. This is typical Presidential logic -- the need to do something not quite right in order to keep the opposition from getting elected and doing something worse. Anyway, Mr. Dole can think that if he gets elected and finds out a tax cut is a bad idea, he won't have to do it. That has happened to Presidents before.
But will it help him to get elected if he comes out for the big tax cut? I keep thinking about Harry Truman. In 1948, after the Republican Congress passed a tax cut over Truman's third veto, he ran against it and won an election he wasn't supposed to win.
Of course, Truman ran against the Republicans for passing what he called a "rich man's tax cut." Can Mr. Dole propose a tax cut that Democrats won't be able to call a rich man's tax cut? If he makes the 15 percent across-the-board tax cut that some of his advisers are talking about, that would be a much bigger cut for Steve Forbes's than for the average American. Steve Forbes and most of his friends will probably vote for Mr. Dole anyway.
And what about the capital-gains tax cut that all Mr. Dole's advisers want. Jack Kemp says that would mainly help low- and middle-income people. But does anyone other than Jack Kemp believe that?
Or Mr. Dole could propose a tax cut that would give every man, woman and child $200. That wouldn't be a rich man's tax cut. But it's not a pro-growth cut, and thus Mr. Dole's friends wouldn't like it. Is there any way to propose a tax cut that Mr. Clinton can't trump with a cut of his own that is more for the working man and less for the Republican fat cats?
Anyway, the public has probably gotten pretty cynical about campaign promises on taxes. George Bush said "Read my lips, no new taxes," and then he raised taxes anyway. Bill Clinton promised to cut taxes for middle America, and then he raised taxes. Ronald Reagan did fulfill his 1980 campaign promise to cut taxes, but he then raised taxes almost every year after that.
Of course, Mr. Dole could say that he would balance the tax cut with spending cuts. But he would have to say something about defense, Medicare and Social Security. His belief in a strong defense is a main point in his campaign. And can you imagine him selling a program that would cut Steve Forbes' taxes and slash Medicare and Social Security benefits?
The voters know that his advisers are urging Mr. Dole to recommend a big tax cut because they are desperate about the election, not because it represents his policy and principles. Can Mr. Dole afford to be seen doing that? The biggest thing he has going for him against Mr. Clinton is that voters think he sticks by his beliefs, that he tries to do the right thing even though it's hard. Should he sacrifice that public estimation of him now?
Mr. Dole's political mentor, and mine, Richard Nixon, used to say: "Honesty may not be the best policy, but it is worth trying once in a while." Maybe this is the time to try it. Mr. Dole could say something like this:
"America is not suffering from too much taxation. The greatest problem is the huge deficits that are going to appear in the next generation if we don't do something about them now. We must slow down the growth of spending for Medicare and Social Security. And we cannot afford tax cuts, not even those proposed by this Congress. I know that some economists have said that a tax cut will not increase the deficit very much. But our long-range economic and fiscal situation is too precarious to permit us to rely on such comforting estimates. It isn't good enough just to balance the budget by 2002. The next generation of workers is going to bear the costs of Medicare and Social Security for the baby boomers. We should be running a surplus now to reduce the debt we leave them to carry."
Maybe that won't win the election for Bob Dole. But it might help to awaken America to the economic dangers facing it and make it easier for a future President, whoever it may be, to act responsibly. And if Mr. Dole is not that President, it would let him retire as a man who always did what he thought was best for the country.
It's a tough choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; FORECASTS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (70%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); VETO (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: STEIN, HERBERT; DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



659 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3560 words

HEADLINE: Battles on Conservation Are Reaping Dividends

SERIES: THE CLINTON RECORD -- Fourth of seven articles: The Environment

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. and TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: KELLOGG, Idaho

 BODY:
A rust-colored river runs through the valley where Barbara Miller is trying to rear her four children, in a town of brittle-boned homes holding off age and gravity. Neighborly howdies blend with nervous talk about the poison that keeps showing up in the blood of local children.
The Silver Valley, a basin in the Idaho mountains that once produced most of the nation's silver and much of its lead, has long been one of the most polluted places in the United States. Things are gradually getting better, Mrs. Miller said, in part because the Clinton Administration has speeded the cleanup at Superfund toxic waste sites like the one in her neighborhood where mine refuse had smothered the land in toxic filth. 
 But Mrs. Miller and her neighbors are also struggling to live with another result of President Clinton's environmental policy. Liberated from environmental restrictions thanks to a bill Mr. Clinton reluctantly signed last summer, loggers have been clearing the national forest just upstream. Early this year when the rains came, the naked hillsides could not restrain the runoff, sending a flood coursing through the valley and shifting more than one million pounds of lead downstream where the toxic sediment settled in people's yards.
"We've seen a lot of progress in this valley," said Mrs. Miller, whose yard was dug up to remove lead endangering her children. "But now, with this new logging, a lot of people are upset."
If Mrs. Miller and her neighbors feel whipsawed by Federal environmental policies, their experience may also be emblematic of the Clinton Administration's entire record on the environment, capturing in one spot some of the most complex issues of natural resources and public health that define environmentalism.
Torn between economic forces and ecological imperatives, the White House has sought to satisfy entrenched advocates on both sides of divisive policy struggles, only to find itself drawn into confrontation almost every time it sought consensus.
Measured by a legislative yardstick, the Administration's environmental record would rise but a few inches. There were hardly any landmark environmental laws signed in the Rose Garden, and certainly nothing to rival Theodore Roosevelt's preservation of wild spaces, or Richard M. Nixon's endorsement of the modern environmental legal structure or Jimmy Carter's protection of big parts of Alaska from development.
Rather, the Administration's record is best defined by how it performed in a colossal collision with Congress midway through its first four years. When Republicans won control in 1994, they aggressively pressed forward with an antiregulatory agenda that environmentalists saw as threatening to dismantle a whole generation of rules that not only preserved open spaces and wilderness areas, but also put protection of the public's health and safety above other considerations, including economic ones.
An intense battle over how to reshape environmental regulations ensued, with the Administration presenting its own, moderate ideas but essentially playing a defensive game and labeling the Republicans as tools of industrial special interests. The fight made every issue, including cleaning up toxic wastes or chopping down ancient forests, a matter of pitched partisan politics.
And now, it appears that the payoff is coming, not only in strong support in polls but also in legislative accomplishments. Later this week, President Clinton will sign a new pesticides bill that strongly resembles what he proposed three years ago, imposing strict new health protections in place of limited, outmoded and scientifically flawed ones and paying special attention to protection for infants and children. The legislation was passed with stunning swiftness by unanimous voice votes in a House and Senate that seemed to have learned the political power of mainstream environmentalism.
Polling by The New York Times in June showed that by a margin of nearly 2 to 1, people trusted Mr. Clinton more than the Congress to protect the environment. But even as Mr. Clinton won praise for acting as a shield against Republican efforts to roll back environmental protections, he is often criticized as someone who has fallen short on the expectations.
 
The First Steps
Economy and Ecology Breed an Ambivalence
The newly formed Clinton Administration was a study in environmental ambivalence. As a candidate, Mr. Clinton was a self-styled new Democrat with an innate knack for compromise and a commitment to the economy. As Governor of Arkansas, that had sometimes meant bowing to the needs of industry when it came to environmental protection.
But in Al Gore, Bill Clinton had chosen a Vice-Presidential nominee who had written a best seller that called "rescuing the environment the central organizing principle for civilization."
The same ambivalence permeated the Cabinet and the White House staff, where there was a constant tension between people who figuratively wore green armbands and those who preferred green eyeshades. There were strong environmentalists and Gore loyalists, but also noncommittal number-crunchers and a cadre of political movers and shifters.
"We spent '93 and '94 working on how to make the environment an integral part of our long-term economic strategy, but still keep high standards," the President recalled in an interview. "I do not believe the public supports a Government walking away from the environment. I just don't believe they do."
The President started his term with some daring environmental initiatives, even in his economic program. Taking his advice from Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, an ardent environmentalist from Arizona, he promised to break a century-old habit of subsidized logging, mining and grazing on public lands.
But there were immediate signs that when it came to a fight with Congress -- even one still controlled by Democrats -- the White House was not as determined as the environmentalists had imagined. The Administration, in its first budget battle with Congress, quickly retreated from initiatives to increase grazing fees on public lands and impose an energy tax. Especially in the Senate, lawmakers from energy and ranching states controlled the show, and Mr. Babbitt became something of a pariah to them.
Another sign came when Congress roughed up the Administration on a proposal to elevate the Environmental Protection Agency, headed by a determined Gore loyalist, Carol M. Browner, to Cabinet status. It was mainly a symbolic move that would have done little beyond putting new brass plaques on some bureaucrats' doors. But it got nowhere, largely because conservatives -- including Democrats -- insisted on tacking on requirements that environmental rules be subject to economic tests to see if they were worth the cost.
When asked to defend the Administration's record, Vice President Gore cited a long list of administrative actions, many of which received relatively little public attention, including policies on ocean dumping, recycling paper, managing fisheries and the like.
Faced with a Congress that proved unable to agree on laws that govern such major issues as wetlands, endangered species, and cleaning up toxic dumps, the Administration took major steps to smooth the process of getting permits for development and completed cleanups at hundreds of Superfund sites. But that is hardly the stuff of history books.
The 103d Congress, still controlled by Mr. Clinton's own party, finally approved, after a decade of debate, a huge expansion of the National Park system in California's deserts. But Congress was generally hostile to green causes, and as the 1994 election approached environmental activists glumly joked that the Mojave Desert preserve was set aside just to give them a bigger wilderness to wander in.
 
The Confrontation
Republican Triumph Spurs the Defense
In the end, the Administration would make environmentalism a pillar of its program, but that was only after Congress slipped into the hands of Republicans who mounted a broad legislative offensive to roll back environmental regulations and slash the budgets of the agencies enforcing them. The President responded with vetoes and threats of vetoes, and his popularity surged.
Playing defense, supporters and critics alike agreed, the President found his footing.
"What's the old principle from physics?" Mr. Gore mused when asked how the midterm election had shaped the Administration's own environmental stance. "A force creates a counterforce, an equal and opposite reaction."
But for that reaction to take hold in the Clinton White House first required that the President himself realize that wrapping himself in green would pay off politically.
It happened at about the time that Dick Morris, the pollster and political confidant, moved into the White House, bringing fresh surveys showing that even among antiregulatory Republican conservatives in Virginia -- the heart of opposition territory -- there was a strongly held belief that environmental regulations should be stronger, not weaker.
It appeared that the Republicans in Congress were making a huge political mistake.
Under its new Republican majority, the House in 1995 quickly passed a bill to overhaul the making of regulatory decisions on cleaning air, water and waste sites and protecting species and the habitats where they live. Part of the Republicans' Contract With America, the bill required elaborate cost-benefit studies of any new rules and opened significant new legal avenues for industry to appeal rules they thought were too burdensome.
Still shocked by an election that had created the first Republican Congress in a generation, the Administration reacted cautiously, adopting a series of administrative changes and pilot programs that it promised would give businesses more flexibility while keeping pollution control standards in place.
The House also moved swiftly with revisions to the Clean Water Act to eliminate Federal jurisdiction over most wetlands and ease on controls over industrial pollutants. Republican leaders also pushed a bill that would have greatly weakened the Endangered Species Act, and another to repeal many retroactive liability provisions of the Superfund law, which force polluters to pay for environmental damage from dumping toxic wastes.
Even though environmentalists were howling, both the regulatory bill and the water bill passed the House without anyone at the White House even murmuring the word "veto."
But the mood grew increasingly combative. Sensing the political advantage of confrontation, the President finally dived into the fight.
Ms. Browner said she knew things had changed in May 1995, when George Stephanopoulos, a major political adviser to Mr. Clinton, telephoned the President as they drove to a news conference where Mr. Clinton was about to denounce the water bill and, for the first time, pledge to veto legislation rolling back an environmental protection.
"Be sure he calls it the Dirty Water Act," Mr. Stephanopoulos said to Ms. Browner, signaling that the environmental issue had grabbed the attention of top political advisers. The President did so, and the bill stalled in the Senate.
The Administration also deftly exploited the close involvement of business lobbyists, who were tilting their campaign contributions heavily toward Republicans, in drafting some of the new legislation. That raised the hackles of many voters, polls showed.
"We've obviously stopped the wave of repealers and attacks on environmental laws," Mr. Babbitt, the Interior Secretary, said. "But the turn to a positive agenda is just barely in the making. The adversarial approach to legislation is what this town is all about. It is a town full of lobbyists and lawyers on all sides, who are obsessively inward-looking, who do not have a feel for how these issues work on the ground. The question for post-'96 is, are we fated to repeat this endless cycle, or do we have an opportunity to find, and build and cement a consensus that will hold?"
 
The Strategy
Search for Consensus Is the Main Goal
Indeed, a hallmark of the Administration's environmental policy is the premise that consensus can work, letting everybody win.
That premise has been tested in one setting after another, with varying results. It was the basis for the Administration's approach to the Endangered Species Act, a law which has often led to court battles between antagonists but which the Administration used instead to negotiate broad compromises on preserving habitat. Similarly, the Administration tried again and again to broker what it termed "common sense" agreements on controlling industrial pollution.
Confronting a groundswell of opposition to the species law among property owners trapped in litigation and delay, the Administration set out to win over the logging companies, developers, and ranchers who were its biggest critics. In Georgia came a deal to protect the red-cockaded woodpecker while allowing logging to continue in parts of the bird's habitat. In Southern California, a similar deal was struck with housing developers to protect the gnatcatcher, a songbird.
In both cases, not just a single species but an entire ecosystem could come under protection, potentially helping hundreds of plants and animals avoid eventual demise. And landowners who agreed to sign contracts for proper stewardship were promised what Mr. Babbitt called "no surprises." Once a habitat was protected, there would not be subsequent demands for further restrictions on how the land was used.
Administration officials believe that the changes are permanent.
"We have reinvented the way habitat protection is done in this country, and I don't think we are ever going to go back," said George Frampton, the Assistant Secretary of Interior for Fish and Wildlife who was the head of the Wilderness Society before joining the Administration.
Ms. Browner said her agency had brought about permanent change.
"I honestly believe that in 10 years, when you look at the regulatory portion of the agency's work that how those standards are set will be place by place, sector by sector," Ms. Browner said. "That is fundamentally different than doing it the pollutant-by-pollutant, crisis-by-crisis way of the past."
It has not been easy, especially amid the anti-bureaucracy hammering from Capitol Hill, to turn her slogan of "common sense" into the agency's standard operating procedure.
The difficulty was captured at a meeting of Government officials, environmentalists and industry representatives in Washington last October. The advisory committee had convened at the request of auto makers to endorse a new, flexible approach that the Administration was proposing to meet the air pollution permit requirements of the Clean Air Act, which had passed with bipartisan support in 1990 and were signed by President George Bush.
While few citizens were even aware of the new controls put on industry by Title V of that law, everybody in the room knew that billions of dollars were potentially at stake in how the regulations to carry out the law were written and that industry lobbyists were working hard on Capitol Hill to have that part of the law rewritten..
So Ms. Browner made clear to the group that she wanted a quid pro quo before the committee endorsed her new policy and put the stamp of consensus on it. She wanted corporate lobbyists to back off from their efforts to roll back the regulations on Capitol Hill.
"I think I asked a perfectly legitimate question," Ms. Browner said later. "The business people were sitting in the room, but man, they were getting a better deal somewhere else."
In the end, the question was left hanging that day like a thin summer smog. And the essential issue -- how hard the the industry will lobby for fundamental change in environmental regulation -- will help determine what lies ahead.
But especially after Senate Democrats successfully filibustered Bob Dole's regulatory overhaul, a major part of the Contract With America, industry appeared to be once again joining the search for a middle road on environmental regulation.
This year, when the President's Council on Sustainable Development issued recommendations on a new framework for environmental regulation, it was endorsed by companies like Dow Chemical as well as by environmental groups like the Sierra Club.
"I truly believe," said the head of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, Katie McGinty, "that the President will go down in history for having put in place a new generation of environmentalism, based on cooperation not confrontation: defining and securing the common ground, defining the common interest, not the special interest."
Even Republican environmental leaders acknowledge that this might occur. William Ruckleshaus, who headed the E.P.A. when it was first created under Mr. Nixon and again after it was shaken by scandal in the Reagan Administration, said he hoped the political opportunity to overhaul the system would arise "sometime after the next Presidential election."
"Windows of rationality, where we experience a calmer atmosphere more conducive to constructive change, open infrequently, and usually only for a short period of time," Mr. Ruckleshaus said.
 
The Continuing War
Logging Compromise Kindles Criticism
In the woods, consensus has been as elusive as Sasquatch.
Just ask Tom Vuyovich, as he watches the logging trucks rumble day and night past the little motel he owns in the Oregon Cascades. All around him, big trees are falling in the Willamette National Forest. Detroit Lake is silted in by the inevitable erosion from heavy logging. Protesters trying to block further cutting are arrested daily.
"We're right in the middle of a giant war, and they're logging everything," Mr. Vuyovich said. "Clinton said he was going to end this. So why are they taking 500-year-old trees out and scaring away all the tourists?"
As a candidate, Mr. Clinton promised to end the epic conflict over the last of the nation's big trees. Barely three months into his Presidency, he tried to fulfill that promise by convening what he called a forest summit, an extraordinary session in Portland, Ore., attended by environmentalists, timber industry executives, workers and Government officials, including the President, nearly a third of his Cabinet and low-ranking Forest Service rangers.
What came out of the summit was a plan largely to end logging on the last six million or so acres of ancient forests on public land, most of it in the Pacific Northwest. And there was a pledge to spend $1.2 billion to retrain workers and restore land torn up by excessive logging.
It seemed, at first, to be a major triumph. Protests disappeared. Lawsuits were settled. Ex-loggers went to school, and unemployment in the timber communities actually fell to record low levels.
But the industry continued to complain about how much timber they were allowed to have, and in mid-1995, Congress responded with what came to be called the salvage logging rider. This provision was tacked onto an unrelated spending bill. Described by its sponsors as a measure directed at culling dead and dying trees from ailing forests, it also opened the way for cutting many healthy stands as well, bypassing the protection of environmental laws.
Mr. Clinton vetoed it. Then, stunning some top environmental aides, he reversed course and signed the measure. A Federal court then gave the broadest possible interpretation to the bill, and throughout the West, even in the very areas that Mr. Clinton had vowed to protect, logging picked up speed.
"That was, indeed, our biggest mistake," Mr. Gore said, "and it never would have happened except for a miscalculation on our part about the magnitude of what was wrong with the provision. We were genuinely surprised, indeed shocked, by the court decision, which vastly expanded the scope of something we thought could be muted by administrative action. We knew it was not good policy. But it was one of those examples of one thing imbedded in a huge, overall measure that had to pass."
Critics call that a lame excuse.
"Because of that rider, I give this President a 'D' on forests," said Jim Jontz, a former Democratic member of Congress now working on environmental issues.
The Sierra Club protested in a park across the street from the White House with a sarcastic 21-chain-saw salute. David Werntz of the Northwest Ecosystem Alliance summed up the feeling recently in a single word: "Betrayal!"
But sound bites and photo opportunities are not the real stuff of environmental pollution. Natural resources and the public's health are, and they are harder to measure. Unlike an economic record, which can be measured in the quarterly rate of employment, gross national product, and inflation, an environmental record is written over long years and in one ordinary place at a time.
What ordinary people want in the Silver Valley, Mrs. Miller said, is a river that is no longer dead, a river that does not pose a health risk to children, a river without the word "Superfund" attached to it.
"It's in our back yard now," Mrs. Miller said. "But nobody is immune when you're talking about things that affect how we all live."
 
Next: Criminal Justice

GRAPHIC: Photos: POLICY AT THE CONFERENCE TABLE -- At an April 1993 conference on Federal forest policy in Portland, Ore., President Clinton made a point as Vice President Al Gore and other participants listened. (Associated Press); POLICY AT THE RIVER -- Barbara Miller of Kellogg, Idaho, by the Coeur d'Alene River, which carries lead and other toxic pollutants from mine wastes into the yards of people living near it. (Jeff Green for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "SCORECARD" lists a look at several environmental initiatives and what came of them.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); IDAHO, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); COEUR D'ALENE, ID, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; PESTICIDES AND PESTS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES ; LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (83%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); LEAD (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); SUPERFUND (75%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (73%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); WILDERNESS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; EGAN, TIMOTHY BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (55%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



660 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Workers' Pay Rises Again, But Benefits Lag Behind

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
In the clearest signal yet that wages and salaries are moving up, the Labor Department announced yesterday that its broadest measure of what American workers receive in their paychecks rose by nine-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter. That was the fourth consecutive quarterly increase greater than the inflation rate.
The employment cost index, which has drawn little attention until recently, is caught up in both the election campaign and monetary policy. The Clinton Administration cited it as fresh evidence that 20 years of wage stagnation was finally ending -- a contention many economists dispute. And Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, singled out the index in recent testimony as a key statistic in the Fed's deliberations over interest rates. 
 Actually, the index sent out two messages pleasing to both Washington and the markets. While paychecks are finally allowing workers to gain some ground in living standards, the overall increase in what employers pay for labor has remained rather mild. As a result, the stock and bond markets concluded yesterday that employment costs alone were not likely to spur the Fed to raise interest rates at its August meeting to head off inflation.
The reason is that while wages and salaries have risen quite noticeably, going up by 3.2 percent for all workers for the 12-month period that ended on June 30, benefit payments have lagged behind. They rose by seven-tenths of 1 percent for the quarter and only 1.8 percent for the 12 months, mostly because company-paid health insurance premiums are barely increasing.
When wages and benefits are combined, representing the total labor cost for employers, the rise in the overall employment cost index was eight-tenths of 1 percent for the second quarter and 2.9 percent for the year. That was just a hair above the inflation rate of 2.8 percent for those 12 months.
"The overall index came in at slightly less than the markets had expected, and traders are betting, for that reason, that the Fed won't raise rates next month," said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley.
Long-term interest rates fell in trading yesterday, dampened also by a Commerce Department report that sales of new single-family homes fell in June, for the second consecutive month. On the New York Stock Exchange, the Dow Jones industrial average, which often responds well to reports of moderate or even weakening economic growth, rose by 47.34 points yesterday, to 5,481.93. The only strongly positive statistic was a report from the Conference Board, a business organization, that consumer confidence had risen in July.
The Clinton Administration, meanwhile, cited the wage component of the employment cost index as fresh evidence that most Americans were finally getting decent raises after years in which wages and bonuses rose by less than the inflation rate.
"We have turned the corner," said Joseph E. Stiglitz, chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers, offering a Democratic election campaign theme that is challenged by many other economists. Mr. Stiglitz credits Administration policies, particularly a reduction in the budget deficit, for generating enough economic growth to make wages rise steadily since the fall of 1993. But other economists say the growth is simply a natural part of the recovery from the 1990-91 recession. "The Administration could not ask for more from this economy than it is already getting," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell/C. J. Lawrence Inc.
A similar, even stronger spurt in wages in the 1980's lasted three years and then disappeared as the economy weakened and the unemployment rate, which had fallen below 6 percent -- as it has today -- rose again. "This spurt in wages may turn out to be similarly brief," said Lawrence Mishel, chief economist at the Economic Policy Institute. Some economists, including Mr. Greenspan, say the economy might begin to weaken by the election.
Even without a slowdown, the Administration and many economists argue that American workers are improving their productivity sufficiently to pay for the wage increases they have received so far. By producing more goods and services to sell, they have taken the pressure off their employers to raise prices. Labor costs, both wages and benefits, would have to rise at an annual rate of at least 3.5 percent before pressure develops to increase prices by more than they are now rising, Mr. Stiglitz said. And Government data as well as anecdotal evidence suggest that while wages are rising, the increases are relatively mild.
The International Association of Machinists, for example, said that wage increases for its 500,000 members are rising by 3 percent a year in contracts negotiated over the last 18 months with airlines and aircraft manufacturers. Before that, the rise had been only 2.5 percent. But much of this increase, union officials say, has come in the form of bonuses and other one-time payments that could disappear in weaker economic times.
The Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the biggest increase over the last year, 4.3 percent on average, has gone to salespeople: car salesmen, real estate and stock brokers, insurance agents, retail clerks, restaurant workers and the like. But part of the improvement has come in higher commissions and tips that would disappear if the economy weakened.
Shortages of skilled workers are also pushing up wages. That is happening at the Principal Financial Group in Des Moines, which employs 14,000 people in the marketing of insurance and retirement funds. "We have run into significant shortages of computer analysts and programmers," said David J. Drury, Principal's chairman, "and we are adjusting salary scales for this small group, but not by a huge amount, maybe 3 to 5 percent."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MORGAN STANLEY (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FRINGE BENEFITS WAGES & SALARIES (95%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); BONUS PAY (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



661 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Buchanan to Push for Trade and Tax Planks

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30

 BODY:
Trying to reclaim the initiative on issues central to his faded Presidential campaign, Patrick J. Buchanan plans to make an announcement on Wednesday revealing planks on taxes and trade that he wants included in the Republican platform.
Mr. Buchanan has been expected to play a leading role in any fight over abortion rights at the party's convention, which begins on Aug. 12 in San Diego. But his proposed economic planks show that he hopes to have far broader influence and push Bob Dole, the party's expected Presidential nominee, to embrace a flat tax on income, seek to end inheritance taxes on "family farms" and use "every trade weapon at our command to defend the economic interests of the United States." 
 Mr. Dole has said he plans to introduce his own economic plan, which will include tax cuts.
Judging from an advance copy of Mr. Buchanan's proposed planks, which was provided by a senior aide to his campaign, the ideas and language may prove a bit too provocative for the Republicans.
"The amoral transnational corporations that dominate foreign trade have adopted a profit-uber-alles mind-set," it declares in part. "Like the denizens of Jurassic Park, they exhibit only appetite. They have no allegiance to any country; they exhibit no loyalty even to their own workers."
The senior aide to Mr. Buchanan, speaking on the condition of not being named, said the campaign was working with sympathetic delegates on the Republican platform committee and hoped to see the language added to the platform when the committee met in San Diego.
Failing that, Mr. Buchanan would have to win the support of several state delegations to propose the planks on the convention floor.
"Theoretically, we could do something on the floor," the aide said. But "that's a major, major enterprise."
So far, the Dole campaign has shown little interest in accommodating Mr. Buchanan, who amassed the second-largest number of delegates in the primaries but has withheld an endorsement of Mr. Dole. Mr. Buchanan has been denied the opportunity to make a speech before the convention, and on Monday, he rejected a chance to appear for 15 seconds in a videotaped presentation.
While he regularly declared his opposition to abortion in his campaign speeches, Mr. Buchanan tended to dwell more on his economic ideas. Some of Mr. Buchanan's proposals, including one that Republicans seek the repeal of the 1990 and 1993 tax increases, are similar to those Mr. Dole's advisers say he is already considering.
But Mr. Buchanan also calls for a flat tax with "generous exemptions for children and deductions only for charitable giving and mortgage interest on the family home." He would also eliminate corporate taxes on "small businesses."
He says he would pay for his tax cuts partly with taxes on goods from "nations such as China and Japan that run chronic trade surpluses at our expense, through unfair trade practices."
Mr. Buchanan's proposals on trade are at odds with longstanding Republican policy. The 1992 Republican platform endorsed international trade agreements, praising "the greatest expansion of international trade in history." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ELECTION ISSUES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); ABORTION (72%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (67%); CHARITIES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; BENNET, JAMES PATRICK J BUCHANAN (96%); BOB DOLE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



662 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: One Mother's Ordeal With Life on Welfare

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: COAL VALLEY, Ill., July 26

 BODY:
In her rusting house trailer on a patch of thistles and stones in the Mississippi River valley, Manda Seefield clearly feels embarrassment about her plight: a welfare recipient for most of the last six years. But as her words tumble out, they are tinged with anger. She knows that many Americans, including some in Congress, believe that all a welfare beneficiary needs is a stronger backbone, and maybe a swift kick in the pants.
"They think we have this easy life, eating candies and watching TV all day, without a care in the world," said Ms. Seefield, 26, who collects $365 a month in aid. "They ought to come down to my level once. See what it's like to take care of kids on this kind of money. See what it's like to run into obstacles everywhere you turn." 
 When Congress considers historic changes in welfare, condemning a culture of dependency, it is aiming squarely at people like Manda Seefield. Ms. Seefield was a child of welfare; her mother held jobs only sporadically. Like many long-term welfare recipients, Ms. Seefield became pregnant as a teen-ager.
Her story provides fodder for both sides of the welfare debate: on the one hand she is healthy and cannot seem to find work despite a fairly robust economy. On the other hand she has applied in vain for many jobs and has trouble finding child care.
If the welfare bill and its five-year limit on receiving aid becomes law, women like Ms. Seefield could face the prospect of an abrupt halt in welfare payments.
A closer look at Ms. Seefield's life reveals a welter of complications that make an escape from the rolls far more difficult than it might seem. "It's not something to be proud of," she said quietly, after shooing her two small children out of the room. "I try my best. And then something happens. It's really hard to get off welfare."
With no diploma, no special skill and no support from the father of her two small children, Ms. Seefield has scant options in the job market.
She is unwilling to work the night shift, because child care during the late hours is extremely hard to find, or very expensive. The minimum-wage jobs like flipping burgers and making beds, which she had done as a teen-ager, usually do not pay health insurance, a necessity for the mother of small children who have health problems.
Besides all that, even lower-paying jobs are beginning to demand more sophisticated levels of skills, especially when it comes to computers. Filling out a job application at an office supply store recently, Ms. Seefield was overwhelmed by the number of technical questions.
"Half of the computer stuff," she said, with a note of defeat, "I never even heard of."
About 70 percent of aid recipients leave the rolls within two years, but about half come back, according to Michael Kharfen, a spokesman for the United States Department of Health and Human Services. Nationally, the average cumulative time spent on welfare is about six years.
Like many welfare recipients, Ms. Seefield herself grew up in poverty. Her mother was an alcoholic who sometimes worked as the manager of a topless bar. As a child of 10 or 11, Ms. Seefield said, she would be left alone to fend for herself for a week or more at a time.
She dropped out of Rock Island High School during her senior year, and worked at a couple of fast food restaurants. She also worked minimum-wage jobs as a hotel maid, discount store clerk and gas station cashier.
At 19, she became pregnant. At 22, she had her second child. She has never married.
She was going to school last year to get her high school equivalency diploma, but stopped around Christmas as the bills mounted. She took a job at Mother Hubbard's Cupboard, a convenience store at a gas station, where she earned $4.90 an hour.
But earlier this month, she was dismissed. She said a supervisor became unhappy with her for "covering for this other girl."
After losing the job, she said she has applied for work at an office supply store, a hotel, a department store and a gas station, among other places. But she is not optimistic about her chances.
It cannot help, Ms. Seefield acknowledged, to have an application form that shows a spotty work history.
"They don't want you unless you have experience," she said. "But how do you get experience, unless somebody is going to give you a job?"
In some cases, she said, it is financially better to take welfare than to work, considering the cost of child care and insurance. "I don't know what I'd do without the medical card," she said.
Her 6-year-old son, Christopher, takes medication for being hyperactive. He was held back in kindergarten. Her 4-year-old daughter, Ashlie, has severe asthma.
If she had things to do over again, Ms. Seefield said, she would never have dropped out of high school. And she would have realized she was too young to have babies.
But she had become smitten with a teen-age boy, also a high school dropout, that she had met while "cruising the avenue" in nearby Moline.
"I was madly, passionately, head-over-heels in love," she said.
They had talked about marrying, but he always had second thoughts. He also had plenty of other girlfriends. He left when she became pregnant with Ashlie.
Ms. Seefield said the man has "six or seven children by different women." While she was working at the gas station, he happened to stop there one day. They talked for about 15 minutes, and she showed him pictures of Christopher and Ashlie.
She now has a folder with statements from the Illinois Department of Public Aid, which keeps track of the child support he owes. As of May, the bill had climbed past $22,000.
"We have chased him and chased him and chased him," Ms. Seefield said. "And every time we catch him, he quits his job and moves to another state."
She said Christopher used to ask why his father did not love him.
"That's a very hard question to answer to a little boy," she said. "I tell him that he's just been very busy, and that maybe he'll have time for him later."
Always living on the lip of financial catastrophe, Ms. Seefield said, she must practice a sort of triage, focusing on whatever is urgent and knowing which bills can be put off.
With school starting in a month, Ms. Seefield is worried about money she will need for books, supplies and clothes. Despite the financial straits, she said she never talks about money with the children. "I want them to think everything is hunky-dory," she said. "Worrying is my job."
These days, she has been seeing a man, and he bought a washer-dryer and a television for the family. They do not have a telephone or cable. With the help of a friend's father, she bought the 1978 trailer last year for $1,000. She still must pay $140 a month rent for the trailer lot.
"I'll admit, it's very hard to get off aid," she said. "It's very hard. You have to find a pretty good job. And I'd like to know, where are they?"
She sometimes thinks about what she would do if the welfare checks ended for good. "All I know, is that I'm going to keep a roof over my children's head, and I am going to get them clothes and food," she said.
"I'll find a way," she added. "I just don't know what it is right now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manda Seefield, 26, collects $365 a month in welfare benefits to support herself and her daughter, Ashlie, 4, and son, Christopher, 6. Speaking of the difficulties of getting off public assistance, she said: "I try my best. And then something happens. It's really hard to get off welfare." (Warren Paris for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (59%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (59%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (60%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (50%); 

PERSON: SEEFIELD, MANDA; JOHNSON, DIRK MANDA SEEFIELD (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



663 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Cross-Border Deals Are Down This Year

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Cross-border merger and acquisition activity slipped in the first half of 1996 from last year's record levels, according to a study released yesterday by KPMG Peat Marwick.
But investors still put plenty of money into mature economies like the United States and Britain, while retreating somewhat from emerging markets like China. 
 "We're seeing a flight to safety," said Steve Blum, corporate finance partner at KPMG, which defines cross-border deals as those in which the buyer and seller are based in different countries.
KPMG said 2,707 cross-border acquisitions, joint ventures and minority investments, with a total value of $110.5 billion, were announced in the first six months of 1996. That marked a 12 percent decline in the number of cross-border deals and a 6 percent spending drop from record levels of 1995.
The United States still attracted the most investment, with 397 deals, though activity was down 9 percent from levels a year earlier. The total value of the United States deals slipped 11 percent, to $35.4 billion.
KPMG said American activity abroad also fell, especially in China and France in the entertainment and communications industries. The number of cross-border purchases by United States companies dipped 2 percent, to 722, and the value fell 18 percent, to $22.3 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (94%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: KPMG PEAT MARWICK KPMG LLP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KPMG PEAT MARWICK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); FRANCE (51%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996



664 of 664 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-8
 
PRAVDA CEASES PUBLICATION
 
Russia's oldest and most famous Communist newspaper has ceased publication, a victim of the new competitive marketplace and its own inflexible desire to cater to Communist readers. A1
 
NEW TAKE ON ISRAELI ECONOMY
 
Israel's new conservative Government is proposing major changes in the country's socialist-oriented system, in which the state has always played a major role, and labor is girding up for a fight. A1
 
OPPOSING THE RULING SERBS
 
In a town controlled through the years of the war by a monolithic and violent Bosnian Serb power structure, more moderate opponents optimistically hope they will prevail in elections. A3
 
NEW TEST BAN HURDLE
 
India has decided to block the nuclear test ban treaty that is in final stages of negotiation, creating a new hurdle and making it unlikely it can be signed in September as the United States had hoped. A4
 
CANADA'S CHIEF OF PROTEST
 
A socialist member of Canada's Parliament who has long stood up for causes is facing his most difficult struggle -- trying to decriminalize actions of doctors to assist suicides of the terminally ill. A4
 
ISRAELI'S REMAINS FOUND
 
With the cooperation of the Palestinian government, Israel found what it believes are the remains of a soldier killed seven years ago by Hamas, which had tried to use the body as a bargaining chip. A7
 
EGYPT PRESSING ON PEACE ISSUE
 
In talks in Washington, Egypt's President has been pressing to restore the land-for-peace concept that Israel's new leaders have rejected for peace talks, but the United States wants to move slowly. A8
 
Mexico City Journal: Averting the public eye to support modesty. A4
 
National A10-13, B6-7
 
CHRISTIAN COALITION SUED
 
The Federal Election Commission sued the Christian Coalition, asserting that it had acted illegally for years to promote several Republican candidates. A1
 
Patrick Buchanan intends to push planks on taxes and trade. A13
 
CLINTON'S ENVIRONMENTAL RECORD
 
The Clinton Administration has sought to satisfy advocates on both sides of the environmental debate, only to find itself drawn into confrontation almost every time it sought consensus. A1
 
RULING IN A WHITEWATER CASE
 
A judge ruled that Bruce Lindsey, a leading Clinton adviser, likely took part in a conspiracy to illegally conceal large cash withdrawals by a Clinton campaign in 1990. A10
 
AT CENTER OF WELFARE CUTS
 
When Congress considers changes in welfare, condemning a culture of dependency, it is aiming at people like Manda Seefield, a 26-year-old welfare recipient in Illinois. A10
 
NEW LEADER OF GREEK CHURCH
 
An Ohio-born Bishop, currently stationed in Italy, was named to head the Greek Orthodox Church in the United States. A10
 
FOCUS ON ATLANTA GUARD
 
The newspaper reported that investigators into the Olympics bombing have focused on the guard who first alerted the police to the bomb. B6
 
Atlanta's 911 command center had computer problems. B6
 
A Federal effort to draw up terrorism legislation hit a snag. B6
 
World leaders met in Paris to discuss terrorism. B6
 
DOLE AGAIN SPEAKS ON MOVIES
 
Returning to Hollywood, Bob Dole said that the public was rewarding films that celebrate American values and rejecting those that depict excessive sex and violence. B7
 
Education D19
 
For Spelman College in Atlanta, a record fund-raising campaign.
 
Metro Report B1-5
 
BOMB THEORY BOLSTERED
 
The front landing gear of T.W.A. Flight 800 shows such heavy damage that some investigators are convinced that it is the strongest evidence yet that the plane was destroyed by a bomb, Federal investigators said. A1
 
SUMMER WITHOUT THE HEAT
 
For the first time since meteorologists started keeping reliable records in 1876, there has not been a day in either June or July in which the temperature in Central Park has reached 90 degrees. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C9-14
 
Italians sue the Barnes Foundation. C9
 
U.S. jazz players flock to European festivals. C9
 
Atlanta and Thai companies at the Olympic Arts Festival. C9
 
Sports B8-18
 
HUMAN SPIRIT TRIUMPHS
 
There was preaching, praying and singing yesterday as 50,000 people attended the reopening of Centennial Olympic Park. A1
 
U.S. softball team wins gold. B9
 
The Living Section C1-5
 
Can a kosher snack climb to
 
stardom? C1
 
Health C7
 
Studies hint estrogen may prevent or delay Alzheimer's
 
Obituaries D20-21
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
The bucks stop with Pataki.
 
Test-ban gains and losses.
 
The golden finale.
 
Roger Tory Peterson.
 
Letters
 
Frank Rich: Dukakis on Dole.
 
John J. DiIulio Jr.: Stop crime where it starts.
 
Herbert Stein: Will a tax cut help Dole?
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword C12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA&THAI COS (59%); HAMAS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HAMAS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); SUICIDE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); DECRIMINALIZATION (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); JUDGES (69%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (68%); RELIGION (67%); LAND RECLAMATION (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (53%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996

 
