

801 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Citing JPMorgan Loss, Regulator Pushes New Oversight

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is circulating a preliminary proposal to apply new rules not only to banks in the United States, but also American banks that have foreign units. 

 BODY:
In the wake of JPMorgan Chase disclosing a multimillion-dollar loss in a London unit, financial regulators are weighing broad new oversight of overseas trading. 
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is circulating a preliminary proposal to apply new rules not only to banks in the United States, but also American banks that have foreign units. The proposal, part of a wider effort to rein in the sort of derivatives trading that prompted the huge losses at JPMorgan Chase, would also apply to foreign banks that conduct significant derivatives trading in the United States. 
Gary Gensler, the agency's chairman, took the rare step on Monday to give the public a peak at the proposal, outlining the purpose and scope at a conference in Washington. While the plan is consistent with Mr. Gensler's longstanding plans to impose new derivatives rules abroad, his renewed focus reflects the stronger hand regulators hold in the aftermath of the JPMorgan debacle. 
"I think that the events of the last two weeks are a stark reminder of what we knew in the 2008 crisis," Mr. Gensler said in an interview. "The risk can come crashing back here pretty quickly."
The cross-border proposal is a crucial part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, the government's main regulatory response to the financial crisis. Many big banks like JPMorgan run their derivatives businesses out of foreign branches. 
The agency's commissioners will soon receive an initial draft of the proposal, which is subject to change. In the interview on Monday, Mr. Gensler said that he hoped to formally propose the rule in June, at which point it will be open for public comment. 
JPMorgan's trading blunder has provided a new round of ammunition for proponents of strict Wall Street oversight. Much attention has focused on the so-called Volcker Rule, which prohibits banks from trading with their own money, a policy to prevent blowups that prompt bailouts.
Derivatives rules are also in the mix. The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law mandated a crackdown on the derivatives business, a central player in the financial crisis. 
Wall Street has pushed back hard, as an army of lobbyists have urged Mr. Gensler's agency to exempt overseas derivatives trading. The agency's authority is limited abroad, Wall Street argues. That argument has gained some traction on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers are advancing a bill that, if enacted, would exempt foreign subsidiaries from some derivatives rules. 
But JPMorgan's suspect trades, many of which were executed from London, have derailed some of the lobbying efforts. A Congressional committee recently delayed a vote on the new bill, citing the JPMorgan losses. The trades were tied to credit default swaps, a common type of derivative contract that provides insurance on corporate bonds and other debt. 
"It appears that the bank here in the U.S. is absorbing these losses," Mr. Gensler said in a speech in Washington on Monday. "And as a U.S. bank, it is an entity with direct access to the Federal Reserve's discount window and federal deposit insurance."
Mr. Gensler invoked other recent derivatives blowups that occurred overseas. The American International Group, an American insurance company that booked its risky derivatives deals out of London, would have collapsed if not for a major government bailout.
Under the proposal that Mr. Gensler outlined on Monday, foreign banks involved in more than a "de minimis level" of derivatives business in the United States will become so-called swap dealers. The swap dealer status comes with enhanced capital requirements and other oversight measures. 
Wall Street firms that have derivatives units overseas will also come under the new regime, Mr. Gensler said, because "in the midst of a default or a crisis, there is no satisfactory way to really separate the risk of a bank and its branches."

        
Regulators Adopt New Derivatives Rules
        
Regulators Fear Legal Challenges to Derivatives Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DEREGULATION (83%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BONDS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LOBBYING (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (54%) C.F.T.C; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Derivatives; Gary Gensler; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Volcker Rule; Gensler, Gary; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (94%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

PERSON: Gensler, Gary

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



802 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: Seven Tips for Saving on Rental Cars

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Seven tips for saving on rental cars, how to pump up your credit score, crowdfunding fertility treatments and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Workers want more quiet in their cubicles. (National)
        
Car-crazy Los Angeles learns to embrace bikes. (National)
        
Mark Zuckerberg ties the knot. (Bits)
        
Trouble with E-ZPass at the tollbooth. (Sunday Business)
        
Seven tips for saving onrental cars. (Travel)
        
Just me and my RV. (Travel)
        
Updating the wine spritzer. (Magazine)
        
A burial for a basset hound. (Sunday Styles)
        
How to pump up your credit score. (Real Estate)
        
Hepatitis C test proposed for baby boomers. (National)
        
Same-sexdivorces are approved in Maryland. (National)
        
Number of those working past age 65is at a record high. (Business)
        
At-home vs. employed moms: Who's happier? (Economix)
        
Acura recalls TL sedans for leaking power-steering hose. (Wheels)
        
More cellphone data-usagetips. (Pogue's Posts)
        
Sleep apnea tied to cancer risk. (Well)
        
Crowd-funding your fertility treatments. (Motherlode)
        
About those rules on electronic devices. (In Transit)
        
The War of 1812 on its 200th birthday. (In Transit)
        
Diabetesis on the rise among teens. (Well)
        
More men seek success in female-dominated fields. (Business)
        
Clash of the theme-parktitans. (Business)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); SEDANS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); CROWDSOURCING (72%); HEPATITIS (70%); HEPATITIS C (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (70%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); SLEEP DISORDERS (67%); CANCER (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); DIABETES (51%) Today in Your Money

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



803 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Big Bucks

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A $100,000 bill with Woodrow Wilson's face on it, and a Z$100,000,000,000,000 bill from Zimbabwe. 

 BODY:
As part of its museum exhibit on inflation, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has a number of rare large bills on display. Here's one that caught my eye:
Yes, that is indeed a $100,000 bill, featuring the face of our 28th president, Woodrow Wilson (go Tigers!).
This bill was printed in 1934, and shows the largest notional value ever printed on a United States note. The bill was never circulated among the public, according to Gilles Bransbourg, an adjunct curator at the American Numismatic Society who curated the exhibit. Rather, it was used for transactions involving the Treasury and the Federal Reserve banks, back in the days when you couldn't just push a button on a keyboard to transfer large sums of money.
And sorry, guys, it's no longer usable as legal tender anyway.
If you think that's a large bill, get a hold of this one:
That is a 100,000,000,000,000 -- or one hundred trillion -- dollar note from Zimbabwe, printed in 2008. It has 14 zeroes, the largest number of zeroes ever to appear on a bank note, Mr. Bransbourg said. It was worth about 70 cents in American dollars at the time.

Zimbabwe effectively halted its hyperinflation epidemic by switching to American currency.
While I've compared a huge Wilson bill from 1934 to an even more gigantic Zimbabwean one from 2008, the United States did not actually struggle with hyperinflation during the Great Depression. The bigger bugaboo at the time was actually deflation.
That said, the country did experiment with a lot of weird currencies during the Great Depression, thanks to major debt and liquidity crises.
Here is my favorite:
At one point when the banks were closed for 10 days, this shell was used in California as a sort of alternative promissory note. Neat, huh?

        
Zimbabwean Dollars Are Finally Worth Something
        
The Great Shrinking American Dollar
        
Zimbabwean Inflation Reaches 531 Billion Percent
        
Why Do Foreign Banks Need Dollars?
        
How Much Do You Owe? Guess Again

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (90%); COINS & COINAGE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFLATION (73%) American Numismatic Society; currency collapses; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; hyperinflation; U.S. Dollar; Woodrow Wilson; zimbabwe; Currency; Inflation (Economics)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY (91%) American Numismatic Society

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ZIMBABWE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



804 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Was Cory Booker Right About the Attacks on Private Equity?

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: On "Meet the Press," the mayor of Newark denounced Democratic attacks on the private equity industry. 

 BODY:
Cory Booker, the young, dynamic and often unpredictable mayor of Newark, got himself into hot water over the weekend by likening Republican attacks on President Obama's former relationship with Jeremiah Wright to Democratic attacks on private equity. "This kind of stuff is nauseating to me on both sides," he said on "Meet the Press." "It's nauseating to the American public."
He also touted the president's pro-business record ("over 90% of Americans have seen tax cuts under this president"), and said that Mitt Romney "would have let the auto industry fail," but the media naturally focused on his apparent defense of Mr. Romney's work at Bain Capital. "I know I live in a state where pension funds, unions and other people are investing in companies like Bain Capital. If you look at the totality of Bain Capital's record they've done a lot to support businesses, to grow businesses."

The remark must have irritated people at the Obama campaign, because Mr. Booker later posted a video on YouTube to "clarify" his remarks, as politicians like to say. "Mitt Romney has made his business record a centerpiece of his campaign," he said. "He has talked about himself as a job creator. Therefore, it is reasonable for the Obama campaign to examine that record and discuss it."
I happen to agree with the pre-"clarified" remarks Mr. Booker's more careful follow-up. 
To simply denounce private equity as an industry, and all of the people involved in it, would be wrong - and would leave Mr. Obama open to the accusation that he hates business. Actually, he's already been accused of that, but it would lend some credibility to the charges.
Private equity companies are not inherently evil. The industry is unregulated and opaque, and spends a lot of money in Congress to keep things that way. But it's part of the capitalist system. Private equity companies often make money for investors, and sometimes help create companies that create jobs, or help save jobs by saving companies. Other times they carve up companies and sell off the pieces, killing lots of jobs. So it goes.
I haven't seen the president attack the whole industry, though. I've seen him pounce on the occasional failures of one particular company (Bain)-which, as Mr. Booker said, seems perfectly fair. Mr. Romney, after all, has made his experience at Bain a central part of his campaign. Why shouldn't Mr. Obama examine it and criticize it?
But this whole conversation is a distraction from the big picture. Even if Mr. Romney had a flawless record at Bain, even if he was the most successful American businessman of all time, that wouldn't necessarily mean he'd make a good president. The whole notion that running a company is like running the country is bogus. C.E.O.s know how to maximize corporate profits (or at least they do theoretically), which is simply not the same thing as stimulating a national economy or creating jobs, and has little to do with handling diverse constituencies or negotiating with hostile foreign powers. Can you think of a single corporate chieftain who became a great president?

        
Opinion Report: Fingerprints for Food Stamps
        
How to Energize the Liberal Base
        
Job Creation vs. Profit Creation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); TAX LAW (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); JOB CREATION (65%) Bain Capital; Cory Booker; Jeremiah Wright; Private Equity; Booker, Cory A

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (88%) Booker, Cory A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



805 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Cornell's High-Tech Campus Will Have a Temporary Home at Google

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Before Cornell builds its new applied sciences school on Roosevelt Island, its first classes will be held in Google's building in Chelsea. 

 BODY:
Updated 4:56 p.m. | The executives of Google are putting their interests in New York City ahead of their old school ties.
On Monday, Larry Page, the chief executive of Google, announced that the company would donate space so Cornell University can have a temporary home for the applied sciences school it plans to build in the city. While the campus is under construction on Roosevelt Island, students and faculty of the new Cornell school will occupy space in Google's large building in the Chelsea section of Manhattan.
The donation comes despite a connection between Google's co-founders, Mr. Page and Sergey Brin, and Stanford University, which had vied with Cornell for the Roosevelt Island space. Mr. Page and Mr. Brin started the company while they were graduate students at Stanford; they even made a video pitch to support Stanford's bid in the competition that the city set up. 
But Stanford dropped out of the running shortly before city officials chose Cornell to build on the public property on the south end of the island, with the aid of $100 million of investment by the city. Stanford officials expressed hard feelings about how the city conducted the competition, but Google executives said they were happy to help Cornell to solve the shortage of qualified workers for technology companies in New York.
"We feel it is so central to the future of our society that it's extremely important that we train an increasing number of talented people in computer science," said Alfred Spector, a vice president for engineering at Google. "New York is our second-largest engineering lab. We have felt there is a strong base of talent in the metropolitan region. That has made this a desirable place to be, and we want to make sure that continues."
Google will let Cornell use 22,000 square feet of space on an upper floor of the building on Eighth Avenue that the company bought in 2010, said Jordan Newman, a company spokesman. The school will have the option to expand into an additional 36,000 square feet over three years, Mr. Newman said. Cornell will be responsible for most of the costs of operating there and has to be out in five and a half years; the school expects to start holding classes in the first phase of its new campus in the fall 2017.
In its bid for the city land, Cornell said it would start holding classes in the city this fall. The university's president, Dr. David J. Skorton, said in an interview that the school would meet that promise by having students and teachers travel down from the school's main campus in Ithaca for seminars and workshops. By the fall 2013, the first students enrolled in the new school of applied science will take classes in the Google building, he said.
Charles J. Feeney, the Cornell alumnus who pledged $350 million toward his alma mater's new campus, sat a few rows from the stage during the announcement in Google's building. Along with Mr. Page and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, he was one of three self-made billionaires in the auditorium. Mr. Spector said Google considered the rent-free lease to be a gift to Cornell with a value of as much as $12 million. But Dr. Skorton said the university would not treat it as a philanthropic donation and so had not placed a value on it.
Still, Dr. Skorton said he was "very grateful" to the company. "It's obviously an enormously generous accommodation," he said.
City officials said that Google's hospitality did not come at their urging and that no public funds would be used.
"We didn't twist any arms or beg anybody," said Robert K. Steel, the deputy mayor for economic development.
Mr. Page nonetheless paid tribute to Mr. Bloomberg, applauding his "healthy disregard for the impossible." The mayor responded by saying: "When we envisioned creating such a school in our city and created the competition for it, we always expected the school to have close ties to the private sector. Today Google is certainly getting in on the ground floor."

        
City Explores Deal With Google to Digitize Tax Photos
        
Has Google Found a Stairway to Heaven in Brooklyn?
        
City Invites Software Developers to Crunch Big Data Sets
        
Center Puts Google Maps at Tourists' Fingertips
        
Bloomberg@Google, Where Lunch Is Free

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (65%) Cornell University; Google; technology; Bloomberg, Michael R; Page, Larry; Skorton, David J; Colleges and Universities; Google Inc; Chelsea (NYC); New York City; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Breaking News; Higher Education; Manhattan

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%) Cornell University; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (91%); SERGEY BRIN (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Page, Larry; Skorton, David J

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Chelsea (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



806 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Silver Questions Cuomo Tack for Protecting Disabled People

BYLINE: DANNY HAKIM


HIGHLIGHT: The Assembly speaker echoed concerns of others who have suggested that greater independent oversight would be more valuable than a state agency prosecuting abuse cases. 

 BODY:
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver raised concerns on Monday about the independence of a proposed state agency that would prosecute abuse of people with mental or physical disabilities.
The agency is the centerpiece of a proposal by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to overhaul the policing of crimes against these vulnerable citizens, after decades in which the state's response to allegations of abuse and neglect was weak. 
But Mr. Silver, speaking on Monday about the governor's proposal, echoed the concerns of some advocates who have suggested that greater independent oversight would be more valuable than another state agency.
"We have concerns about obviously it being a totally internal process and that there is no outside review," Mr. Silver told reporters in Albany. "I think there has to be some way in which somebody can be heard other than by an employee of the State of New York." 
Mr. Cuomo's office disagreed. In a statement, Josh Vlasto, the governor's spokesman, disputed the criticism, and blamed opposition from the state's largest public employee union, the Civil Service Employees Association. 
"The speaker is wrong,'' Mr. Vlasto said. "Apparently he hasn't read the bill yet, because if he had, he would know the bill includes outside and independent oversight, and we must not be dissuaded by CSEA's opposition, which has stymied progress in the area for decades."
The exchange made it clear that the legislation, which was passed by the Senate last week without debate, is being viewed more cautiously in the Assembly. Mr. Silver concluded his comments by saying "there are a number of concerns that have been communicated." He did not elaborate. 
The new agency was not the only issue that divided the governor and the Assembly speaker on Monday. Mr. Silver also took a shot at the governor, a fellow Democrat, after Mr. Cuomo said in a radio interview that an increase in the minimum wage had little chance of passing in the Republican-led Senate. Some liberals have pushed the governor to be more active on the issue. 
"He's just making a prediction," Mr. Silver said. "He's a great governor. I'm not sure he's a great prognosticator."

        
Tax Deal Expected Between Cuomo and Lawmakers
        
As Economy Lags, Cuomo Reconsiders Tax Stance
        
Assembly Speaker in No Mood to Discuss His Bruise
        
Assembly Speaker Injured in Bicycle Accident
        
In Albany, 'Big Three' Agree on Most Issues, Except Gay Marriage Vote

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); CONTUSIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Sheldon Silver; Cuomo, Andrew M; Silver, Sheldon; Abuse of the Disabled; New York State; Albany

ORGANIZATION: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (91%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Silver, Sheldon

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



807 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: Obama Defends Attacks on Romney's Work at Bain

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and HELENE COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: "This is not a distraction," President Obama said at a news conference, referring to Mr. Romney's Bain record. "This is what this campaign is going to be about." 

 BODY:
5:11 p.m. | Updated CHICAGO -- President Obama said that he considered attacks on Mitt Romney's experience at Bain Capital to be fair game, declaring that the former chief executive's claims to being a strong business leader made his background at the private equity firm worthy of a serious debate.
"This is not a distraction," Mr. Obama said during a news conference at the end of the NATO summit in Chicago on Monday, referring to Mr. Romney's Bain record. "This is what this campaign is going to be about."
The president has come under criticism from some of his Democratic allies for the Bain attacks. On Sunday, Cory A. Booker, the mayor of Newark, and a top supporter of Mr. Obama, called the president's attacks on Bain a "nauseating" part of negative campaigning on both sides. 
Mr. Booker said the attacks on Bain Capital in campaign advertisements were unfair, though he later issued an about-face on Twitter and in a video, during which he said that Mr. Romney's record at Bain was actually fair game. 
Mr. Obama refused to concede that the attacks were unfair or unjustified, saying that Mr. Romney's limited experience buying and selling companies for profit leaves him with little understanding of the job that a president needs to do.
"If your main argument for how to grow the economy is, 'I knew how to make a lot of money for investors,' then you are missing what this job is about," Mr. Obama said, stressing the words "this job" in his answer.
"It doesn't mean you weren't good at private equity," Mr. Obama added. "But that's not what my job is as president. My job is to take into account everybody, not just some."
Mr. Obama said he views private equity firms like Bain Capital as a "healthy part of the free market" designed to "maximize profits." He said there are "folks who do good work" in that line of work.
But he made clear that he views those who work in private equity - and Mr. Romney in particular - as limited by a view of the economy that prioritizes profits above all else. The president said that view was too limited at a time of economic struggles in the country.
"Their priority is to maximize profits, and that's not always going to be good for businesses or communities or workers," he said.
Referencing the videos his campaign has released in the past two weeks that featured workers laid off by Bain companies, Mr. Obama said: "I've got to think about those workers in that video just as much as I'm thinking about folks who have been much more successful."
"The reason why this is relevant," Mr. Obama said, "is Romney's main calling card for why he should be elected is his business experience."
Mr. Obama's advisers insist that their full-throated assault on Bain Capital, now in its second full week, is intended as a critique of Mr. Romney's claims to be a jobs creator. But much of the commentary on Mr. Obama's behalf describes Mr. Romney in highly personal and unflattering ways.
That approach has begun to have consequences. On Sunday, Mr. Booker said both campaigns should stop the "crap" they have been offering the public.
"This, to me, I'm very uncomfortable with," Mr. Booker said on NBC's "Meet the Press" program.
A few hours later, Mr. Booker released a three-minute video backing off his criticism and trying to draw a distinction between personal attacks and legitimate criticisms of Mr. Romney's time at Bain. In the video, he said it is "reasonable" for Mr. Obama's campaign to examine his rival's business record.
Mr. Booker's first instinct may have been influenced by his ties with Wall Street executives, many of whom are his supporters. Other Democrats who have criticized the Bain attacks - like Steven Rattner, Mr. Obama's former auto czar - are also close to the private equity world.
But the episode involving Mr. Booker suggests that Mr. Obama is walking a fine line as he tries to make Bain Capital a central issue in the presidential campaign. Both candidates are eager to attract independent voters who may be turned off by attacks they think cross a line of decency. And Mr. Romney has jumped at the chance to argue that the president has done just that.
Last week, Mr. Romney said the Bain attacks from Mr. Obama were intended to suggest that "I'm not a good person, or a good guy."
The Republican party sought to stoke the issue further on Monday, using video of Mr. Booker's "Meet the Press" comments to raise money with The Republican National Committee also launched an "I Stand With Cory" petition drive and began using the #StandWithCory hashtag on Twitter.
And Mr. Romney's campaign produced a video alleging that Mr. Obama's supporters have "had enough of President Obama's attacks on free enterprise."
Mr. Obama's campaign has dismissed that criticism, saying its Web site - RomneyEconomics.com - is an effort to describe how the values Mr. Romney's pursued at Bain would color his actions as president.
"This is not about private equity or how Romney ran his company," Stephanie Cutter, a deputy campaign manager for Mr. Obama, told reporters recently. "It's about whether his business experience there qualifies him to be president."
But the campaign advertisements and conference calls are frequently platforms to question Mr. Romney's personal qualities.
A video released Monday by Mr. Obama's campaign highlights an office supply company whose workers were fired when it was bought by a Bain company. In the ad, the workers deride Mr. Romney's personal ethics.
One says that Mr. Romney "did not care about us as workers." Another says that Mr. Romney "takes from the poor and the middle class and gives to the rich. He's just the opposite of Robin Hood." 
A third says flatly: "You can tell by the way he acts, the way he talks. He doesn't care anything about the middle-class or the lower-class people."
In another ad, set at a Kansas City, Mo., steel plant, Joe Soptic, a former worker there, says that as president, Mr. Romney "would be so out of touch with the average person in this country." 
"How could you care? How could you care for the average, working person if you feel that way?" Mr. Soptic says.
He went even further in a conference call with reporters, saying that Mr. Romney "is only worried about one group of people, and that's people like him, people at the top."
The personal criticisms of Mr. Romney also come directly from Mr. Obama's campaign officials. In the conference call with Mr. Soptic, Ms. Cutter said the issue was Mr. Romney's personal values.
"Romney didn't care about rewarding hard work or responsibilities," she said. "It's absolutely on the table as an indication of Romney's values."
That message is being echoed in "super PAC" advertisements on the campaign's behalf. An ad by Priorities USA Action concludes with a worker saying that Mr. Romney "promised us the same things he's promising the United States. He'll give you the same thing he gave us. Nothing. He'll take it all."
To be sure, Mr. Romney's campaign has been aggressive in describing Mr. Obama in personal ways. Mr. Romney repeatedly says that the president "doesn't get it," painting Mr. Obama as a kind of slow-learning neophyte in the Oval Office. His campaign often describes the president as a liar, saying he personally broke promises he made to the American people.
And the Republican super PACs have targeted Mr. Obama personally. The Times reported last week on a plan by one of them to link Mr. Obama to his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr..
The question may be whether either campaign is making progress with voters by making the race more about the candidates and less about the policies they pursue.
Mr. Booker said on "Meet the Press" that the trash talk was crowding out more serious conversations about the economy and other issues. And in his video clarification, he continued to urge the candidates to stay away from the personal attacks.
"My concern is we are about to go into a significant political campaign that will affect the destiny of our nation," he said. "I am, indeed, upset. I am, indeed, frustrated. But I believe the American public, working together, we can begin to more and more denounce this type of campaigning."
"Ultimately," he added, "my hope is that this election will not therefore be about the small things, will not be about divisiveness, will not be about denigrating, will not be about painting with a broad brush."
Bain Capital issued a statement Monday in response to the new video from Mr. Obama's campaign. Charlyn Lusk, a spokeswoman for the firm, said it has always tried to grow businesses. 
"Our control of Ampad ended in 1996, fully four years before it encountered financial difficulties due to overwhelming pressure from 'big box' retailers, declines in paper demand, and intense foreign price pressures," she said. "During Bain Capital's ownership, revenues grew in 80 percent of the more than 350 companies in which we have invested."
An earlier version of this post referred incorrectly to Cory A. Booker. He is the mayor of Newark, N.J., not the mayor of New Jersey. It also misspelled the name of President Obama's former auto czar. He is Steven Rattner, not Stephen.

        
Super PAC Ad Tries to Tie Romney to Oil Companies
        
Obama Ad Buy Totals $1.4 Million in Six States
        
Obama Campaign's New Ad Attacks Romney and the Oil Industry
        
Romney Rejects Using the Rev. Jeremiah Wright Against Obama
        
Asked About Gay Marriage, Romney Doesn't Answer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%) ad; cory booker; obama; presidential campaign of 2012; romney; Booker, Cory A; Cutter, Stephanie; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; Democratic Party; Newark (NJ); The Caucus

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%) Bain Capital; Democratic Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%) Booker, Cory A; Cutter, Stephanie; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



808 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: Obama and the New Freedom

BYLINE: TRYGVE THRONTVEIT


HIGHLIGHT: The president should look to Woodrow Wilson more than Franklin Roosevelt as a model for his re-election campaign. Seriously. 

 BODY:
In evaluating President Barack Obama's legislative record, historically inclined commentators frequently compare his first term to the early years of Franklin Delano Roosevelt's New Deal. When it comes to winning re-election, however, the commentators - and Obama - might learn something from the only Democrat besides F.D.R. to win multiple elections in the 20th century on reform platforms: Woodrow Wilson.
Obama won in 2008 largely because he promised a new way of doing things in Washington: less partisan and ideological, more cooperative and deliberative. His recent turn to the left might energize the Democratic base, but it is unclear how it will play among the swing voters who put him in office and remain crucial to his re-election. That's where Wilson comes in. Few presidents have wooed swing voters as successfully as Wilson: In 1912 he won liberal Republican votes from both William Howard Taft and Teddy Roosevelt when the latter bolted to form the Progressive Party, and in 1916 he added former T.R. Progressives and even socialists to his coalition to win a close race against the formerly liberal, increasingly conservative - in other words, eerily Romneyesque - Charles Evans Hughes. In that race Wilson, like Obama, signaled a clear turn leftward, but that alone did not win him re-election. Instead, Wilson won by doing something Obama has not: staying on message, which for him meant staying on .
From his 1912 campaign through the end of his first term, Wilson consistently communicated a general approach to politics that he believed in more deeply than any particular platform, and which appealed to the urban reformers, social gospelers, anti-monopolists, labor activists and other participants in the day's diffuse progressive movement despite their disagreements on specific policy questions. In short, Wilson called for "a new method and spirit of counsel" to replace politics-as-usual in Washington. At that time, he meant to wrest control of economic and political life from large corporations (and their government yes men) and place it in the hands of citizens, by breaking the power of trusts, fostering broader economic competition, and promoting better conditions for workers whose long days and crushing labor prevented full participation in public life.
These "New Freedom" policies were intended to embody Wilson's new method and spirit of counsel. But they were not to hamstring it. Refusal to experiment, recalculate, adapt, compromise; that was exactly the politics-as-usual Wilson promised to reject. "Fixed liberty is no liberty at all," he had written while president of Princeton University, and he brought that conviction with him to the presidency of the United States. Wilson insisted that a truly progressive political method meant governing according to both principle and experience, adapting to changing contexts and pursuing essential goals rather than party-trademarked policies. The success of such a method required compromise, as did the democratic ideal it embodied. "As servants of all," Wilson argued, public officials were "bound to undertake the great duty of accommodation and adjustment." At a time when the economy and society seemed to be changing more rapidly than ever, Wilson's message of flexibility and solidarity was very appealing - as was his call for humility in Washington. Promising great change to an unsatisfactory "system," he pledged to pursue that change "in the spirit of those who question their own wisdom and seek counsel and knowledge" - not just from people in other parties and independent experts, but from "the people."
Again like Obama, Wilson's pragmatic method got him into trouble early on. He initially dismayed progressives in his own party, and those outside who were crucial to his re-election, by his willingness to work with corporations, banks and a range of centrist and even conservative interests. But this approach delivered the Underwood Tariff Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and the Federal Reserve Act in rapid succession between 1913 and 1914. Each was an attempt to eschew one-time legal fixes and establish agencies capable of responding to change, whether that meant altered trade conditions, new anti-competitive corporate practices or fluctuating demand for credit. Crucially, each of these victories was achieved through a deliberative process in which all parties gave something to get something - as when financiers desiring a truly national currency, but no central bank, accepted supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Ultimately these achievements earned Wilson more progressive supporters than they lost, and not because he soft-pedaled his cooperation with moderates and conservatives. In touting the New Freedom acts he never shied from admitting that he had compromised - sometimes out of necessity, sometimes because he had learned new things, but mostly because that is how he thought democracy should work: by drawing upon "the best of our common counsel."
Obama professed a similar view of democracy as "conversation" in his 2006 book, "The Audacity of Hope," and he proceeded to act on it as president, most notably by working with Republicans and Wall Street to stave off economic catastrophe. Many on the left assume all such inches must stretch into miles, and Congressional Republicans have tried to prove them right.But Wilson's pragmatism did not foreclose his future progressive options. Just the opposite: by emphasizing the virtue of reflective, principled adaptation to changing conditions, Wilson provided the intellectual justification for a cascade of advanced reforms initiated in 1915, including loans to farmers, child-labor restrictions, government-worker's compensation, and the first redistributive income tax in American history. Some accused Wilson of adopting wholesale the Progressive Party platform of his erstwhile rival, Theodore Roosevelt, in a cynical bid to capture T.R.'s 27 percent share of the 1912 electorate for himself in 1916. But four years as president had led Wilson to consider much of the Progressive Party's platform necessary to giving the American people a voice and stake in their government, and he was perfectly comfortable saying so. More important, he was - at least to the nine million-plus who reelected him in 1916 - because he had always promised to make "convincing experience" rather than ideology his guide.
Of course, endorsing a deliberative, democratic method is no guarantee of applying it consistently or wisely. Wilson failed miserably to assure African-Americans the same rights as their fellow citizens. He also failed to break the United States' established pattern of invading every Latin American country deemed unstable. Nor does a deliberative, experimental approach to policy ensure that clear answers to complicated problems will emerge. Some historians will continue to question America's entry into World War I, even as others wonder how it could possibly have been avoided. Scholars will most likely never agree about the wisdom of Wilson's compromises at the Peace Conference, or whether his ultimate refusal to compromise with senators working to undermine the new League of Nations was noble or perverse. But contrary to historical caricatures, Wilson never claimed to be perfect. He never claimed compromise was the answer. He simply thought cooperation could offset individuals' imperfections and that the partial progress of compromise was usually better than none at all.
Obama, too, must accept that his pragmatism and idealism will sometimes conflict, while neither will save him from screwing up now and again. Still, he need not think, with his narrowest-minded critics, that pragmatism and idealism conflict. A method, after all, can be an ideal. Wilson, the former academic, saw it as his job to educate Americans on just that point - namely, that democracy itself, with all its setbacks, trade-offs, partial victories and second chances, was the ideal that allowed all other ideals to be pursued. Obama, the most scholarly in demeanor of Wilson's successors, has made the same connection by endorsing a "golden rule" of politics: a commitment to reasoned, charitable exchanges of view in political debate and genuine consideration for diverse needs and values when crafting and weighing policy. It is unfortunate that in today's America, Obama can't just say "democracy" and be sure his meaning is clear.
Our sad political culture does not, however, explain why Obama is having trouble connecting with voters in 2012 the way he did just four years ago. It's that his message has become muddled: the crisis made me do this; my principles tell me to do that; I promise more of the latter. This inspires little confidence in Democratic activists, who doubt his commitment to progressive causes, or in independents, who fear he will pursue them at all costs. Yet in 2008 these same two groups, despite their differences, found common ground in Obama's message of change: of a renewed commitment to critical thinking in the White House, bipartisan cooperation in Congress and shared sacrifice across the nation. In 2012, Obama needs to get back on message by getting back on - and he needs to stay there. As Wilson knew, healthy democracies learn through deliberation, experimentation, compromise, and yes, failure. Democratic leaders should not be ashamed to set an example.

        
The Uses of Polarization
        
Obama on the High Wire
        
Believing in Obama
        
Obama's Marriage Maneuvers
        
Economy or Personality?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Barack Obama; presidential election of 1912; presidential election of 1916; presidential election of 2008; presidential election of 2012; theodore roosevelt; Woodrow WIlson; Obama, Barack; Roosevelt, Theodore; Wilson, Woodrow; Presidential Election of 2012

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack; Roosevelt, Theodore; Wilson, Woodrow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



809 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 21, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2268 words

HEADLINE: Swing Voters and Elastic States

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Instead of swing states, we are focusing on "elastic states," ones that are relatively responsive to changes in political conditions, like a change in the national economic mood, and have a high percentage of swing voters. 

 BODY:
North Carolina is a swing state that has relatively few swing voters. Rhode Island is not a swing state, but it has quite a lot of swing voters.
Are you confused yet?
The concept I'm getting at here is a pretty basic one, although it is sometimes hard to explain because the term "swing" is applied in such a wide variety of different ways to describe voter behavior. So it may be time to introduce a new term into the political lexicon, which I'll call an state in reference to a similar concept in economics.
Let's define an elastic state as one that is relatively sensitive or responsive to changes in political conditions, such as a change in the national economic mood. (This is in the same way that, in economics, an elastic good is one for which demand is highly sensitive to changes in prices.)
For instance, if there are a series of strong jobs reports this summer, and President Obama's standing improves by five percentage points nationwide, we'd expect his standing to improve by than 5 points in an elastic state. This works both ways: if we went into another recession and Mr. Obama suffered a five-point decline in his popularity, he'd experience a larger decline in an elastic state.
An inelastic state, by contrast, is one which is relatively insensitive to these changes. In an inelastic state, a five-percentage-point change in the national environment might only affect Mr. Obama's numbers by three percentage points instead.
Elastic states are those which have a lot of swing voters -- that is, voters who could plausibly vote for either party's candidate. A swing voter is very likely to be an independent voter, since registered Republicans and registered Democrats vote with their party at least 90 percent of the time in most presidential elections. The swing voter is also likely to be devoid of other characteristics that are very strong predictors of voting behavior. For instance, he is unlikely to be African-American, which very strongly predicts Democratic voting. And she is unlikely to be a Southern evangelical, which very strongly predicts Republican voting, at least recently.
The classic example of an elastic state is New Hampshire. It has a very high percentage of independents, and those voters are also independent-minded in practice. Almost all of New Hampshire's voters are white, but very few of them are evangelicals, characteristics that roughly balance out (Mr. Obama won about 55 percent of the nonevangelical white vote in 2008).
A good example of an inelastic state is North Carolina. It has quite a few African-American voters, who are almost sure to vote for Mr. Obama. But it also has plenty of rural white Southerners, many of them evangelical conservatives, who almost certainly won't. To a lesser extent, it also has some highly educated and very liberal white voters in the Research Triangle, who are also quite likely to be Obama voters. That doesn't leave very many voters left over. North Carolina is a swing state (or at least it was in 2008), because the coalition of Democratic base voters was quite close in size to the coalition of Republican base voters. But it wasn't a state with a lot of voters: it's the kind of place where elections mostly boil down to turnout, and Mr. Obama -- with his considerably stronger ground game -- was able to edge out a win there in 2008. 
We can be a bit more rigorous about this and quantify each state's degree of elasticity. In 2008, I modeled this by comparing the changes in state polls to the national trendline at different points over time. This calculation figured into the way that our presidential forecasting model simulated the different outcomes that might occur in case the national environment changed again. (We will be introducing this year's version of the model shortly.)
That isn't likely to work so well this year, however, because the state polling data has been quite sparse so far and because there hasn't been all that much variance in the national trend. (You can't model the way a dependent variable responds to an independent variable if the independent variable stays the same.) So, I'm opting instead for what I think is a more robust approach.
This method gets back to the idea of swing voters. We can directly model, from the ground level up, how many swing voters there are in each state and how they might respond to changes in the electoral environment.
In particular, I'm using individual-level voter data from the 2008 exit polls. Between the national exit poll and the state-by-state surveys, there were about 100,000 voters interviewed.
Each of these voters was a real (albeit anonymous) human being with a set of real demographic characteristics. Because the exit polls asked quite a few demographic questions and because the very large sample size permits us to be quite inclusive in selecting variables, we thus know something about each voter's race, religion, gender, age, party identification and so forth, as well as which state the voter lived in.
Through logistic regression, we can estimate the chance that each of these voters would vote for Mr. Obama based on their demographic characteristics. For example, a 66-year-old Latina Catholic living on a fixed income and who describes herself as a conservative Democrat might have about a 75 percent chance of voting for Mr. Obama, according to the model. Or a high-income white independent moderate voter who has an advanced academic degree and lives in a suburb in the South might have about a 45 percent chance of doing so.
The regression model also contains a constant term common to all voters which can be changed in order to reflect a shift in Mr. Obama's overall standing among all voters. If there is a positive development in the economy, for instance, and Mr. Obama goes from having 50 percent of the vote nationwide to 55 percent, we can shift the constant term in order to reflect the overall change in Mr. Obama's standing, and use this to back into an estimate of how that change plays out at the level of individual voters and individual states.
The key concept is that a voter who was close to 50 percent likely to vote for Mr. Obama to begin with is more likely to switch his or her vote than one whose vote could be determined with a high degree of certainty. It helps to imagine each voter as having a scale. For a swing voter, the scale is close to evenly balanced, so it won't take much new information to tip the voter in a new direction. Conversely, those voters who already have a disproportionate amount of weight on their scale either for or against Mr. Obama aren't likely to have their decision changed by adding a little bit more weight on either side. (This can also be seen logically: someone who was already almost 100 percent certain to vote for Mr. Obama can't really become any more likely to do so if something favorable happens to his campaign.) 
By summing up the behavior of the individual voters, we can then see how these numbers affect behavior at the state level. 
The numbers you see below reflect my estimate of the elasticity of each state and the District of Columbia. If a state has an elasticity of (for example) 1.1 points, as Wisconsin does, that means a one-percentage-point change in the national numbers would be expected to change the Wisconsin numbers by 1.1 points. Or, likewise, a five-point change in the national numbers would change that state's voting preferences by 5.5 points.
The more elastic states are those in the left-hand column of the chart. Some of them, like New Hampshire, aren't so surprising. But others like Rhode Island, which actually tops the list, may be less expected.
What's going on in Rhode Island? That state has a ton of independent voters, who are similar in many respects to the voters in New Hampshire although Rhode Island is more downscale economically.
However, among those Rhode Island voters who swing voters, many more are Democrats than Republicans. That is, Rhode Island has a lot of swing voters a lot of Democratic base voters, but very few Republican base voters. 
In recent presidential elections, these Rhode Island swing voters haven't been persuaded by the conservative options offered by Republicans. In these cases, where many or most of the swing voters side with Democratic base voters, the Democrat will win by a wide margin. 
However, if the swing voters have a Republican option that is more suitable for them, they may break from the Democrats and give the Republican a narrow victory. This can be seen in gubernatorial elections, for instance, where the Republican or the independent candidate is selected locally and may be a better fit for Rhode Island moderates. In fact, Rhode Island hasn't elected a Democratic governor since 1990.
In fact, most of the states that rate as having high elasticity have this quality of sometimes delivering a surprising outcome. Alaska, for instance, is sort of the polar opposite of Rhode Island -- it has quite a lot of independent voters, but the Republican candidate usually wins because the Republican base there is larger than the Democratic base. But Alaskan voters are flexible enough to keep Republicans on their toes. A relatively liberal Democrat, Mark Begich, was narrowly elected to the Senate in Alaska in 2008 because Republicans had a problematic incumbent in Ted Stevens and because the national environment was very favorable for Democrats that year.
Massachusetts rates as having high elasticity, which helps to explain how Scott Brown won a Senate seat there in 2010. So does West Virginia, which explains why Barack Obama is very unpopular there but why Joe Manchin III, also a Democrat but a conservative one, was fairly easily elected to the Senate in 2010.
The states that rate as having low elasticity produce more predictable results. Georgia is a low-elasticity state, for instance. Although its demographics aren't significantly imbalanced, they are also relatively rigid and the Republican coalition is a little larger than the Democratic one. Thus, Democrats swung and missed when they tried to pick up a Senate seat in Georgia in 2008. New York, meanwhile, which has far more ethnic minorities than New England, rates as having low elasticity, and Republicans made very little headway there in 2010 despite having a strong year otherwise.
As should be clear from examples like Rhode Island and Alaska, a state can have a strong partisan lean and nevertheless be elastic, or vice versa. Both partisanship and elasticity are useful in considering how a state might react to changes in the electoral environment. I don't want to overdo the elasticity concept too much -- for example, the most elastic states, like New Hampshire and Rhode Island, might be 20 or 30 percent more responsive to changes in national trends than the average state, but not 200 percent or 300 percent more responsive. Elasticity, however, does help to explain why the results seem to be more variable in some states than others, both within a given election and between different types of elections.
The states that are traditionally thought of as swing states -- meaning that they are close to the national average in their partisan orientation -- might be broken down into different groups based on their elasticity.
Persuasion swing states are states that are close to the national average in terms of partisanship and are also highly elastic. New Hampshire, as I mentioned, is a prominent example. So is Iowa, another state with a lot of white moderates. Western states like Colorado and New Mexico often fit into this category. Arizona does as well, which is why (despite my earlier protestations) it might be a more plausible pickup for Mr. Obama than a less elastic state like Georgia. Persuasion swing states will be relatively more responsive to the effects of the campaign and changes in the national environment, including economic conditions.
Turnout-battle swing states, meanwhile, are those like North Carolina with relatively evenly-matched electoral coalitions but few persuadable voters in the middle. Pennsylvania is a classic example: can Democrats turn out enough voters in Philadelphia and Pittsburgh to overcome the conservative central portion of the state? It's pretty much the same question in Pennsylvania every cycle and we often get about the same answer. Virginia, whose demographics are similar to North Carolina, is likewise more of a turnout-battle state. That is not to say there are swing voters there -- Virginia has some in its northern suburbs, for instance -- but there just aren't as many as a proportion of the electorate as somewhere like New Hampshire.
States like Ohio and Florida, finally, are swing states that have about average elasticity. In these cases, the Democratic base, the Republican base and the number of swing voters are all close to the national average.
We'll be using this individual-level voter data in other ways as we roll out the general election model. For instance, it can be used to estimate the effects on the electoral math if there are "shocks" that affect different demographic groups individually rather than felt by all voters equally. Some electoral maps are intrinsically more plausible than others because similar states like Michigan and Ohio are more likely to move in the same direction than those like Virginia and New Mexico that have few demographic properties in common.

        
A 30,000-Foot View on the Presidential Race
        
Reads and Reactions: Reader Comment Edition
        
Election Forecast: Obama Begins With Tenuous Advantage
        
Democrats' Odds of Retaining Senate Improve
        
Where Electoral Forecasts Agree and Disagree

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); RELIGION (65%) 2012; elastic states; forecasting models; general election; swing states; swing voters; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Voting and Voters; Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



810 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: More Care Up Front For $54 A Month

BYLINE: By BRUCE JAPSEN

 BODY:
On the road 50 hours a week, the drivers who work for Becker Trucking, headquartered in Seattle, have little trouble finding cheap eats at the all-night diners lining the interstates of the Pacific Northwest.
But many drivers were struggling with chronic poor health, and the company's health costs were rising fast. What his employees really needed, the company president realized, was better access to doctors.
So he turned to a novel solution. Becker pays $54 per employee per month to a primary care provider called Qliance. Employees get unlimited doctor visits, 24-hour e-mail access to the medical staff, and same-day or next-day appointments. There is no insurance involved in their primary care: no expensive premiums, no complicated claims, no mysterious denials. 
''Drivers are notorious for not being the best in using health care,'' said Frank Riordan, president of Becker Trucking. ''But now they can go into the clinic as many times as they want, and participation is high.'' Two drivers no longer need blood pressure medication, Mr. Riordan added.
This type of health care model is called direct primary care, and it is getting a closer look not just from businessmen like Mr. Riordan, but also from researchers and government officials who see it as an effective way to lower costs.
''It is a very promising and good model,'' said Dr. Arnold Milstein, a professor of medicine at Stanford University and head of the Stanford Clinical Excellence Research Center. ''It is speedy and economical, and these practices are making themselves available to working people.''
Direct primary care derives from an unlikely source: the so-called concierge practices that began appearing a decade ago, catering primarily to the affluent. Concierge practices generally do not accept insurance, either; instead, members are charged thousands of dollars annually for unlimited access to their doctors.
The setup often is lucrative for doctors but ''less accessible to patients who cannot or choose not to pay a membership fee,'' according to a federal report issued in 2005.
''The concierge model carries a lot of baggage in being health care for the wealthy,'' said Dr. Erika Bliss, a family physician and Qliance's chief executive. ''We want to grow this and bring the price point down to average Americans.''
Call it concierge medicine for the masses. The idea is that routine, mundane primary care should not require expensive insurance and can be cheaper without it. Direct primary care practices charge $50 to $60 a month for adults, with lower fees for children. Depending on the practice, the monthly fee also may cover certain lab tests, basic X-rays and stitches for cuts.
But the fee does not cover anything beyond primary care. Typically employers combine direct primary care with high-deductible insurance plans, needed to cover hospitalizations and visits to specialists.
''Health insurance is supposed to protect you against risk, like car insurance does,'' said Dr. Bliss. ''We don't insure our cars for tire changes and tune-ups.''
Even though Becker pays Qliance for primary care and pays half of each worker's $5,000 annual deductible for insurance, the company's costs dropped 11 percent in 2010. Costs had been rising about 14 percent annually, Mr. Riordan said.
Doctors who work for Qliance are salaried, Dr. Bliss said, reducing the financial incentive to order unnecessary tests. Direct primary care practices keep costs low by sidestepping the bureaucracy associated with insurance and reducing unnecessary and expensive trips to the hospital or emergency room, she said.
Direct primary practices are also less likely to refer to a specialist for something they can handle themselves, Dr. Milstein said.
Such practices already operate in 24 states, treating more than 100,000 patients, according to the Direct Primary Care Coalition. Physicians at Qliance, one of the larger practices, will care for more than 10,000 patients this year, double last year's number. Another provider, MedLion, headquartered in Monterey, Calif., plans to open clinics in Miami, New Mexico and Oregon, according to the company's chief executive, Dr. Samir Qamar.
Clients tend to be individuals without insurance, small businesses and unions.
Jan Mayrhofer, a 61-year-old bookkeeper at Safeway, is enrolled in Qliance through her union, United Food and Commercial Workers Local 21 in Renton, Wash. Direct primary care has been a dramatic change from traditional care. ''I have never waited longer than five minutes in the waiting room,'' she said. ''And I don't feel like I am being rushed.''
She may soon have more company in the waiting room. If the Supreme Court upholds the Affordable Care Act, direct primary care practices will be permitted to offer plans on state insurance exchanges by which millions of uninsured Americans can shop for coverage once subsidies are available in 2014.
At the moment, however, laws in many states make it difficult for physicians to contract directly with patients; such an arrangement is sometimes viewed as a form of insurance, subject to regulation because states view it less as a doctor practice than as a prepaid health plan.
But direct primary care may well have its biggest impact in Medicare. Officials are desperately seeking ways to rein in the rising costs for the more than 48 million beneficiaries in the program.
A bill introduced late last year in the House would create pilot programs in which direct primary care is offered to Medicare beneficiaries. Monthly fees could not exceed $100 for Medicare beneficiaries. The practices in the pilot would have to provide services that include primary care, wellness counseling and preventive services with the ability for patients to make appointments seven days a week and have 24-hour access by phone for urgent care consultations.
Without a change in federal law, doctors who contract directly with patients cannot treat Medicare patients. Direct primary care doctors tend to be those who have opted out of Medicare and can charge whatever they want, but they cannot bill Medicare for reimbursement, nor may their patients.
''Our doctors do have to drop out of the Medicare system, because there are laws that don't allow physicians to charge rates lower than Medicare rates,'' Dr. Qamar said. ''We think we can save money for the Medicare program and improve quality by preventing downstream admissions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EXAMS: Direct primary care providers allow unlimited visits to doctors like Erika Bliss. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 EXPANSION: Dr. Samir Qamar started MedLion, a growing direct primary care practice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); FAMILY PRACTICE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (74%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); HYPERTENSION (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WEST USA (91%); NORTHWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



811 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Day of Subdued Protests Follows Night of Clashes in Chicago

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and STEVEN YACCINO

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- On the final day of the NATO summit meeting here, Chicago was oddly quiet. Several hundred demonstrators, a far smaller group than had marched through downtown in the days before, staged a ''die in'' on Monday outside the headquarters of Boeing, whose workers, like many Chicagoans, had stayed home to avoid trouble.
It was a subdued ending for a city that had, for months, braced for chaos that a global summit meeting might bring and had, for ages, bristled at the images from its 1968 Democratic convention, when the police and protesters battled for days. 
Images on Sunday evening of skirmishes between the police and protesters -- police batons waving and objects being hurled -- raised the prospect of more widespread clashes or a lasting taint on the summit meeting. But by Monday evening, some said they believed that the ugly scuffles would not overshadow what had amounted largely to an uneventful weekend.
''This will partly help Chicago live down 1968,'' said Dick Simpson, a former alderman who witnessed the long-ago meeting as state campaign manager for Eugene J. McCarthy, a presidential candidate. ''The images of '68 will never go away, but what I saw this weekend was that in many ways Chicago has grown up since then.''
For days leading up to the meeting of world leaders, protesters, many of them affiliated with the Occupy movement, had flocked to Chicago to voice their opposition to war, NATO and a host of other causes. A significant police presence -- on foot, horseback and bicycle and in unmarked vans -- had been in evidence through days of marches and rallies. Tensions occasionally flared and taunts were hurled in otherwise peaceful events.
Over the week, the Chicago police reported a total of about 90 arrests, a number city officials described as minimal compared with events like the G-20 economic summit meeting in Pittsburgh in 2009 (where, according to Chicago officials, 193 arrests were reported), the Republican National Convention in St. Paul in 2008 (818 arrests) or the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle in 1999 (574 arrests).
''It's not what happened that's the story -- it's what didn't happen,'' Mayor Rahm Emanuel said in an interview late Monday, asserting that the Chicago Police Department had behaved admirably and with restraint.
Many of the arrests came on Sunday evening as protesters and the police clashed after a demonstration just blocks from the conference center where the NATO leaders were meeting. As a larger anti-NATO war demonstration broke up, a group of several hundred protesters stayed put, some pushing in the direction of the meeting, while the police tried to push them the opposite way. Captured by television cameras all around, police officers in riot helmets could be seen hitting protesters with wooden batons as protesters hurled things at them.
Local protesters said the incident would stain the summit meeting and the city long after the international spotlight left. They said the police had no justification for striking demonstrators and expressed concern that the incident might now alter their future relationship with the police here, which had been generally cooperative.
Joe Iosbaker, an organizer of the anti-NATO demonstration, said that while many of those who marched will remember a mostly peaceful event, the brief violence that ended it -- and the images that were shown on television across the country -- might end up as the public's defining memory of NATO's visit to Chicago. The National Lawyers Guild, which had represented protesters, said more than two dozen demonstrators had sustained serious injuries.
''The Chicago Police Department unleashed violence in the service of their NATO guests,'' Mr. Iosbaker said. ''That's what a lot of people are going to remember.''
But city officials vehemently disagreed. Garry McCarthy, the police superintendent, who had appeared at many of the demonstrations beside his officers over the days and was present for Sunday's clashes, said events had gone as expected. ''I'm not sure we could have done it much better, quite frankly,'' he said.
Superintendent McCarthy said a small group of people, perhaps 50, had charged at a line of officers and then hurled garbage cans, rocks, batteries, sticks and more. The use of batons, he said, was unavoidable. ''They were attacking and charging the cops.''
Not long after, the situation calmed and the crowd grew smaller. ''The big picture was that 99.9 percent of the protesters and 99.9 percent of the police conducted themselves professionally,'' said Joe Moore, an alderman. ''Unfortunately the images that people see don't always reflect the big picture. I think Chicago comes out of this smelling like a rose.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters marched from Boeing's corporate headquarters to the Obama campaign's headquarters in Chicago on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EYEWITNESSES (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); RIOTS (78%); CITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); MAYORS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (62%); POLICE FORCES (58%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); RAHM EMANUEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



812 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Personal Health: A Richer Life by Seeing the Glass Half Full

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
The definition of an optimist:
Someone, like me, who plans to get more done than time permits.
Having failed to achieve the impossible, someone, like me, who is sure everything will somehow get done anyway.
A more classical definition from the Mayo Clinic: ''Optimism is the belief that good things will happen to you and that negative events are temporary setbacks to be overcome.''
In one study, adults shown to be pessimists based on psychological tests had higher death rates over a 30-year period than those who were shown optimistic. No doubt, the optimists were healthier because they were more inclined to take good care of themselves. 
Unlike Voltaire's Candide, I've yet to be stripped of my optimism, though there are clearly forces in this country and the world that could subdue even the most ardent optimist.
I am a realist, after all, and I do fret over things I may be able to do little or nothing about directly: economic injustice; wars and the repeated failure to learn from history; our gun-crazy society; the overreliance on tests to spur academic achievement; and attempts to strip women of their reproductive rights.
But I've found that life is a lot more pleasant when one looks at the bright side, seeing the glass half full and assuming that reason will eventually prevail.
Not Just About Being Positive
Murphy's Law - ''Anything that can go wrong will go wrong'' - is the antithesis of optimism. In a book called ''Breaking Murphy's Law,'' Suzanne C. Segerstrom, a professor of psychology at the University of Kentucky, explained that optimism is not about being positive so much as it is about being motivated and persistent.
Dr. Segerstrom and other researchers have found that rather than giving up and walking away from difficult situations, optimists attack problems head-on. They plan a course of action, getting advice from others and staying focused on solutions. Whenever my husband, a dyed-in-the-wool pessimist, said, ''It can't be done,'' I would seek a different approach and try harder - although I occasionally had to admit he was right.
Dr. Segerstrom wrote that when faced with uncontrollable stressors, optimists tend to react by building ''existential resources'' - for example, by looking for something good to come out of the situation or using the event to grow as a person in a positive way.
I was 16 when my mother died of cancer. Rather than dwell on the terrible void her death left in my life, I managed to gain value from the experience. I learned to apply her lifelong frugality more constructively, living each day as if it could be my last, but with a focus on the future in case it wasn't.
Yes, I saved, but I also chose not to postpone for some nebulous future the things I wanted to do and could, if I tried hard, find a way to do now. And I adopted a very forthright approach to life, believing that if I wanted something badly enough, I could probably overcome the odds against me.
When I applied at age 24 for a job as a science writer at The New York Times, an interviewer said I was foolhardy to think I could be hired after just two years of newspaper experience. ''If I didn't think I could do the job, I wouldn't be here,'' I told him.
It turned out to be just what he wanted to hear, and I was hired. Since what I loved most was researching and writing articles that could help people better understand science and medicine, I stayed focused on my goals and declined opportunities to move up in the organization by becoming an editor.
Research has indicated that a propensity toward optimism is strongly influenced by genes, most likely ones that govern neurotransmitters in the brain. Still, the way someone is raised undoubtedly plays a role, too. Parents who bolster children's self-esteem by avoiding criticism and praising accomplishments, however meager, can encourage in them a lifelong can-do attitude.
With the right guidance, many of the attributes of optimism also can be learned by adults, Dr. Segerstrom and other researchers have found.
Noting that it is easier to change behavior than emotions, she eschews the popular saying ''Don't worry, be happy.'' Instead, she endorses a form of cognitive behavioral therapy: Act first and the right feelings will follow. As she puts it in her book, ''Fake it until you make it.''
She wrote, ''People can learn to be more optimistic by acting as if they were more optimistic,'' which means ''being more engaged with and persistent in the pursuit of goals.''
If you behave more optimistically, you will be likely to keep trying instead of giving up after an initial failure. ''You might succeed more than you expected,'' she wrote. Even if the additional effort is not successful, it can serve as a positive learning experience, suggesting a different way to approach a similar problem the next time.
Framing Your Thoughts
It's important not to neglect the power of positive thinking. Both Dr. Segerstrom and the Mayo researchers recommend taking a few minutes at the end of each day to write down three positive things that happened that day, ending the day on an upbeat note.
The Mayo researchers offered these additional suggestions:
Avoid negative self-talk. Instead of focusing on prospects of failure, dwell on the positive aspects of a situation.
In college, I would approach every exam, even those I had barely studied for, with the thought that I was going to do well. Time after time, this turned out to be a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Regardless of the nature of your work, identify some aspect of it that is personally fulfilling. If your job is scrubbing floors, stand back and admire how shiny and clean they look.
Surround yourself with positive, upbeat people. But be aware that if you are chronically negative and always see only the dark side of things, the optimists in your life may eventually give up on you.
Focus on situations that you can control, and forget those you can't. I would also suggest using voting power, money or communication skills to forward a goal that is beyond your personal control.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); CANCER (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



813 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: A Jaw-Dropping Figure Even by Ruth's Standards

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Babe Ruth's first season with the Yankees, 1920, is still reverberating. He batted .376, hit 54 home runs and drove in 137 runs. Attendance at the Polo Grounds more than doubled to 1.29 million. It was the season when the future Yankees dynasty began to take shape.
Ruth wore a gray wool road jersey that season to perform in Boston, St. Louis, Chicago, Cleveland and the three other American League cities. ''Ruth, G. H.'' is still visible on the collar in faded pink script. Blue letters spell ''New York'' across the chest. Dirt stains -- and probably some from sweat -- are evident. 
And now, it is the most expensive sports artifact ever sold at auction.
The jersey was bought Sunday for $4.4 million, nearly quadruple the previous high for a piece of Ruth memorabilia: the bat he used to hit the first home run at Yankee Stadium on April 18, 1923.
That went for only $1.265 million.
''To see this jersey bring in $4.4 million is shocking,'' said Leila Dunbar, an appraiser and former Sotheby's executive whose specialties include sports memorabilia. ''The record for a Ruth jersey before was $1.025 million. For some reason, there's been a dramatic rise in the value of jerseys the past year.''
At $4.4 million, the jersey exceeds the $2.8 million paid for a T206 Honus Wagner card, the $3 million for Mark McGwire's record 70th home run ball in 1998, and the $4.3 million paid in 2010 for the 13 rules of basketball set down on two yellowed typewritten pages by James Naismith.
Only $77,158 separates the prices for the Ruth jersey and the Naismith rules, two very different historical pieces. A Ruth artifact made of paper -- the six-page sale contract that sent him to the Yankees from the Boston Red Sox in late 1919 -- was bought for $996,000 seven years ago.
Ruth is central to the modern sports memorabilia marketplace even if he predated car shows and QVC appearances. He revolutionized baseball with his power, his charisma and his Rabelaisian appetites. Everything about him suggested that he was his own reality show.
It is almost as if Ruth is still alive and preparing to compete in the July 4 hot dog eating contest in Coney Island. He is still a sports icon. And while he signed innumerable balls during his career and until he died in 1948, there are few of his game-used bats, caps or uniforms in existence.
''This is the holy grail of sports memorabilia,'' said David Kohler, the president of SCP Auctions, which sold the 1920 Ruth jersey to Lelands, another auction house, which plans to resell it to a private buyer for what its president said would be another record. Kohler added, ''This is the finest authenticated jersey -- and the best piece of sports memorabilia -- we've ever sold.''
How much Ruth wore the jersey cannot be answered. But there was no memorabilia market for him to enrich himself by selling his uniforms. Chris Ivy, the director of sports auctions at Heritage Auctions, said: ''The common belief is that players had two road and two home jerseys. They'd wear one, while the other was sent to the laundry. And they'd use the past season's uniforms during spring training.''
At some point in Ruth's flannel annals, his pants took a walk, leaving the more valuable jersey behind. Dunbar said the woolen legwear might have fetched another $100,000.
Michael Heffner, the president of Lelands, said that despite the uncertain economy, buyers were willing to pay seemingly absurd amounts for the best memorabilia. In the art world, where the numbers are even more breathtaking, one of the four copies of the Edvard Munch masterpiece, ''The Scream,'' sold for $119.9 million. Heffner said he would rather have the jersey to display.
''The closer you get to the player, the more the value of the piece,'' he said. ''The bat is worth so much. The cap is worth so much. But the jersey he wore, well, they retire the jersey. Not the bat.''
Still, a size 7 Ruth cap owned by the former Yankees pitcher David Wells performed as if it were a Ruth bat Sunday at SCP's auction. Wells paid $35,000 for the 1930s-era cap and wore it in the first inning of a game in 1997. It sold for $537,278 -- more than a 1927-28 Ruth bat, which fetched $491,007.
The search is on, of course, for the next great Ruth artifact, if it exists.
''It would be great to find one of his Boston Red Sox uniforms,'' Kohler said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Babe Ruth road jersey from 1920, his first year as a Yankee, sold for $4.4 million Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCP AUCTIONS, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASKETBALL (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



814 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: New York Investigates Insurer Payments to Banks

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
New York State regulators are investigating whether banks received improper payments from two insurance companies that write policies for financially troubled homeowners, as part of their examination of the unusual web of business relationships between the companies.
The two insurers, Assurant and QBE Insurance, control about 90 percent of the market for coverage known as force-placed insurance, which mortgage lenders take out when borrowers stop making payments on their homeowners' insurance.
The state Department of Financial Services is looking into whether the insurance firms effectively bought their dominant positions by paying kickbacks to banks disguised as commissions or other business, according to the department's superintendent, Benjamin M. Lawsky.
In three days of hearings that ended Monday, Mr. Lawsky said he was considering ''whether banning these relationships makes sense.'' 
The department, which issued more than 30 subpoenas and other legal notices relating to the case last October, is also considering whether to require rebates for homeowners who were overcharged for the coverage. Consumer advocates at the hearing said force-placed insurance typically costs from three to 10 times the price of regular homeowners' insurance. Mr. Lawsky said the insurers appeared to be paying less than 25 cents in claims for every dollar of premium they received, an extraordinarily low loss ratio.
After the hearings on Monday, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said his administration will continue to investigate the ''lack of competition, high prices, and low loss ratios and take necessary steps to clean up this market.''
Representatives of banks and insurers who appeared at the hearing said their business relationships and the profits from them were appropriate and that they were cooperating with the department.
Force-placed insurance has been extraordinarily profitable for banks and insurers in the last few years, generating $5.5 billion of premiums in 2010, according to Mr. Lawsky.
Mortgage lenders have long required home buyers to buy enough insurance to cover the lenders' stake in the property, to protect their collateral from fires and other hazards. The contracts routinely allow for the lender to buy another policy if the homeowner lets his own policy lapse. The lender either uses money from the mortgage escrow account, or if that isn't sufficient, advances the money and gets reimbursed when the house is sold.
The business came under scrutiny after the bursting of the housing bubble and the financial crisis, when more homeowners stopped paying premiums to save money, or when they defaulted on their mortgages.
''I will never forget the ordeal CitiMortgage put me through,'' said Mary V. Burton, a social worker from Staten Island who bought her house in 1990 with a $76,500 mortgage.
Ms. Burton testified that after losing her job in 2008, she fell behind on her insurance premiums. That entitled her mortgage servicer, CitiMortgage, to force-placed a policy on her house, but it chose one that cost three times as much as the policy she had let lapse. CitiMortgage paid the premiums by taking money from her escrow account, then demanded that she replenish the account or be declared delinquent.
Later, with the help of a legal-services lawyer, Ms. Burton learned that the insurer, a subsidiary of Assurant, had issued coverage for the full replacement value of her house, $187,000, instead of the lender's stake, just $55,000, that it was contractually entitled to.
''Their overpriced coverage caused me to experience a significant escrow shortage and is one of the reasons I fell so far behind,'' said Ms. Burton, who is still trying to renegotiate her loan.
John Frobose, the president of the Assurant subsidiary that issued the policy on Ms. Burton's house, said he was pained to listen to complaints like hers, because he thought his company had a good record for accuracy and smooth dealings with customers. He said his clients, the banks, set high standards and would move their business elsewhere if they thought an insurer was failing to measure up.
CitiMortgage did not testify at the hearings but a spokesman for Citigroup, Sean Kevelighan, said that whenever a homeowner showed proof of other insurance, the force-placed policy was canceled.
Consumer advocates told the regulators the force-placed insurance business appeared fraught with sweetheart deals: A mortgage lender would take out the coverage with its own handpicked insurer; the insurer, in turn, would recycle much of the money back to the lender.
In some cases, the insurers did this by buying reinsurance from a subsidiary of the same bank that had brought them the insurance deal in the first place. In other cases, the insurers would send a ''commission'' back to the bank, which also happened to have its own insurance agency.
In some cases, the insurers sent these payments to bank subsidiaries with no employees, raising questions about what the money was for. For instance, Assurant sent payments to Banc One, a reinsurance subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase that has no employees, Banc One officials said under questioning. It is incorporated as a ''captive,'' a type of insurer that provides little disclosure of its financial condition.
''Hundreds of thousands of people are going to get foreclosed on, and Chase is profiting immensely from the reinsurance,'' Mr. Lawsky said. ''It just doesn't smell right.''
A Banc One representative testified that the reinsurance involved a real transfer of risk and that it did not inflate the bills homeowners had to pay.
J. Robert Hunter, the director of insurance for the Consumer Federation of America, said he thought the round-trip transactions gave banks a financial incentive to buy the highest-priced insurance, because then they stood to get a bigger share back.
Mr. Hunter told Mr. Lawsky that force-placed insurers should be required to charge premiums that were in line with their cost of doing business, something now required of health insurers. If health insurers find they have taken in excessive premiums over the course of a year, they have to rebate the money back to their policy holders.
Mr. Frobose acknowledged that his company's business appeared much more profitable than it had told regulators it would be, and said he would be willing to meet with the regulators to consider adjusting its rates.
The problem, he said, was that the insurers had taken in a huge volume of premiums during the mortgage crisis, but they had not yet paid all the claims they knew were in store, because of delays. He said that struggling homeowners were delaying repairs from hazards like storms, and waiting to file claims to avoid complicating their mortgage renegotiations.
''The losses are lagging the premium, that's all,'' Mr. Frobose said. ''When the borrowers actually leave the property, we're going to see a lot of losses that we don't know about right now.'' Until then, he said, he did not know how the rates should be adjusted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Mendy, a homeowner, at a financial services hearing. (B1)
Benjamin M. Lawsky, center, New York Department of Financial Services superintendent, at a hearing looking into payments.
 Mary Burton, a Staten Island homeowner, lost her job in 2008 and fell behind on her insurance premiums. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



815 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Propelled by Apple, Markets Post Gains After a Losing Week

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Forget Facebook. This is still Apple's stock market.
Apple, the world's most valuable company, climbed 5.8 percent on Monday, helping propel major stock indexes to gains after a week of losses.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, where Apple accounts for 4 percent, had its best day in nearly five weeks. The Nasdaq composite index, where Apple accounts for an even heftier 12 percent, posted its biggest gain of the year.
Facebook, the social networking giant, had no role in the rally. On its second day of trading as a public company, Facebook fell 11 percent. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 135.10 points, or 1.1 percent, to 12,504.48. The S.& P. 500 stock index rose 20.77 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,315.99, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 68.42 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,847.21.
Apple is also no stranger to fickle investors. Its stock soared 57 percent from the end of last year through April 9, climbing to about $636 from $405 as iPhone sales seemed unstoppable.
Then it fell for most of April and May, declining to about $530 on Friday, partly because of concern among investors that phone companies will tire of subsidizing the expensive phones to sell to customers.
But Apple's gain of $30.90 on Monday to $561.28, its second-largest increase this year, occurred after several analysts said they expected the iPhone business to continue to do well.
Facebook, which struggled Friday to remain above $38 a share, its initial public offering price, fell $4.20 on Monday, to $34.03.
The stock market's strength on Monday was welcome relief after a month in which investors were concerned about Greece, which failed to elect a new government two weeks ago and is close to leaving the euro.
Investors are growing more worried that the European debt problems ''might not be as manageable as they previously believed,'' said Clark Yingst, chief market analyst for the investment banking firm Joseph Gunnar in New York. ''Today's rally has nothing to do with what is evolving around Greece.''
Investors desperate for good news took consolation in weekend statements from Premier Wen Jiabao of China, who promised to increase his country's growth, a shift from previous talk that focused on curbing inflation.
The drumbeat of bad news about Europe continued, but Apple helped investors shrug it off. The weekend's Group of 8 meeting of world leaders brought only an ambiguous conclusion, producing promises to pursue growth in Europe but few concrete plans on how.
''I wish I could say the coast is clear,'' said Katherine Nixon, chief investment officer for Northern Trust's personal financial services unit in Chicago. But, she said, ''the G-8 didn't really solve anything.''
Caterpillar, which relies heavily on demand from China, climbed 3.7 percent to $91.98, for only its fourth gain in May.
Several big financial institutions, including Bank of America and Morgan Stanley, declined. Bank stocks tend to fall when investors are concerned about Europe because of the banks' investments there. JPMorgan Chase, still smarting from an embarrassing trading loss, fell 2.9 percent to $32.51 after announcing that it would halt plans to buy back its stock.
Major stock indexes in France and Germany rose, but those in Greece and Spain fell.
Monday was the Dow's first gain after six consecutive days of losses, and only its third day of gains this month. Last week was the worst for the Dow since November. The month has wiped out nearly three-fourths of the Dow's first-quarter gains.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note fell 6/32, to 100 2/32, while its yield rose to 1.74 percent, from 1.72 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); EURO CRISIS (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) EUROPE (92%); GREECE (86%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



816 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Dueling Portrayals of Ex-Goldman Director at Insider Trial

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
''He's not an insider trader. He never defrauded anybody. He never cheated anybody,'' said a lawyer for Rajat K. Gupta, once one of America's most prominent businessmen. ''He doesn't belong in this courtroom.''
Yet there was Mr. Gupta, sitting stoically before a jury, as his trial got under way on Monday in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Behind him in the spectators' gallery were his wife and four daughters, one of them wiping away tears as a prosecutor painted a very different picture. 
''This is a straightforward case of insider trading,'' said Reed Brodsky, the prosecutor, speaking to a jury of eight men and four women, which includes a freelance beauty consultant, a fourth-grade teacher and a psychiatric nurse.
Mr. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, stands accused of leaking boardroom secrets about those two companies to his friend and business associate Raj Rajaratnam, the convicted former money manager who ran the Galleon Group, once one of the world's largest hedge funds.
The government depicted Mr. Gupta, a resident of Westport, Conn., as the ultimate insider who, after running the elite consulting firm McKinsey & Company, joined the boards of Goldman and P.& G. As a director, he was privy to these companies' most closely guarded secrets.
''Gupta threw away his duties, threw away his responsibilities and broke the law,'' Mr. Brodsky said.
Mr. Brodsky emphasized the ties between Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam, who began doing business together during the middle of the last decade. Mr. Gupta invested in Galleon's funds, and the two helped start a $1 billion private equity fund together.
''Together they offered each other far more than they could achieve individually,'' said Mr. Brodsky.
Mr. Brodsky appealed to the jury of mostly working-class New Yorkers by highlighting the unfair advantage that he said Mr. Rajaratnam had received from Mr. Gupta's reported tips. In his opening statement, the prosecutor referred to the average, ordinary investor numerous times.
''Getting tips from Gupta was like knowing the outcome of a game before it ends or getting tomorrow's business news today,'' he told the jury.
Specifically, he pointed to an emergency Goldman board meeting via phone that Mr. Gupta participated in during the financial crisis. On the call, Mr. Gupta and his fellow directors approved a $5 billion investment from Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway.
Mr. Brodsky said that immediately after the meeting ended, Mr. Gupta called Mr. Rajaratnam, who bought $43 million of Goldman shares in the company just before the market closed. The last-minute purchase earned the hedge fund manager $1 million, Mr. Brodksy said.
Gary P. Naftalis, the lead lawyer for Mr. Gupta, accused the government of giving the jury a ''cropped photograph'' instead of the entire picture. He emphasized that the government had no wiretapped recordings of Mr. Gupta providing secret information to Mr. Rajaratnam. And on the few tapes in which Mr. Rajaratnam suggests to colleagues that he received tips about Goldman, Mr. Gupta ''isn't even mentioned by name,'' Mr. Naftalis said.
Mr. Naftalis also hinted at another defense strategy: portraying Goldman Sachs as a sieve of information. He noted that Galleon was a top customer of Goldman and hinted that Mr. Gupta was not the only Goldman insider with valuable information. Three executives from the company are under investigation by the federal authorities for possibly leaking illicit information.
Mr. Naftalis highlighted a special visit that Gary D. Cohn, Goldman's co-president, made to the offices of Galleon around the time of Mr. Gupta's supposed leaks. ''The No. 2 guy at Goldman Sachs doesn't make house calls for every Tom, Dick and Harry,'' Mr. Naftalis said.
Mr. Gupta showed little emotion as he watched the lawyers make their case. But the back-and-forth between Mr. Naftalis and Judge Jed S. Rakoff, who are old friends, forced even him to crack a smile.
During one discussion outside the presence of the jury, Judge Rakoff warned Mr. Naftalis not to delve into too much detail about his client's record of philanthropy, which includes efforts to combat global health concerns. Mr. Naftalis argued that he needed to counter accusations that his actions had been motivated by greed, and he asked to be permitted to mention Mr. Gupta's work fighting ''AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.''
''Or the bubonic plague,'' chided Judge Rakoff, as the courtroom burst into laughter, including Mr. Gupta. Judge Rakoff did not allow Mr. Naftalis to list the specific diseases.
Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, was not in the courtroom, but his top deputy, Richard B. Zabel, and Lorin L. Reisner, the head of the office's criminal division, were present for the opening arguments.
Witness testimony is expected to begin on Tuesday with Caryn Eisenberg, who was one of Mr. Rajaratnam's secretary, and Carolann Shields, an employee at McKinsey. Also scheduled to testify this week are Byron D. Trott, a former Goldman banker who helped orchestrate Mr. Buffett's investment, and William George, a Goldman director and former chief executive of Medtronic.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rajat K. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, leaving court Monday. He is accused of leaking secrets to a hedge fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUIS LANZANO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); APPROVALS (65%); NURSES & NURSING (54%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (78%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



817 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: A Long View on Health Care: Think Like an Investor

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Could health care costs be reined in by improving access to preventive care? It's an idea that appeals to policy makers and many public health experts, but the evidence for it is surprisingly hard to pin down.
Of course, preventing diseases is better than waiting for them to occur and then treating them. But there are questions about which diseases can actually be prevented, how effective preventive measures might be, and what they would cost.
We put some of these questions to Dana Goldman, director of the Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics at the University of Southern California and founding editor of the Forum for Health Economics and Policy. What follows is an edited version of our conversation. 
How much are we spending on treating diseases that might be prevented?
The most consistent estimates, and most widely cited, seem to come out of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, lobbying groups like the Tobacco-Free Kids initiative, and the president's prevention initiative. Instead of blanket measures, they focus more on diseases relating to ''lifestyle'' decisions like obesity and smoking, and their estimates include costs for lost productivity in addition to medical expenses.
Some of the better estimates are $93 billion for obesity-related spending and $96 billion for smoking-related spending. The C.D.C. estimates that 75 percent of health care spending is for chronic diseases that could be prevented.
But how feasible is it to prevent things like smoking or obesity?
Right now, we are limited in our ability to prevent those conditions. Part of it is that the factors that determine them are seen as beyond the control of the health care system, things like genes and environment, diet and exercise.
To try to think about it, imagine the way we reimburse. I was talking to a doctor, and he said, ''Look, I am dealing with this obese person and they have a constellation of conditions -- high cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes. The best thing I can do is take them for a walk. But I don't get reimbursed for that.''
Well, why doesn't the doctor come over and take you for a walk? Why can't we reimburse for prevention?
Might that seem like pie in the sky? And anyway, why would you think that paying a doctor to take an obese person for a walk would prevent anything?
It is not pie in the sky. If we reimbursed on the basis of preventing disease rather than treating it, the world would be different. With obesity, for example, you could imagine a much more concerted effort not only for diet and exercise but also biomedicine. A pill to prevent obesity would be worth literally trillions of dollars.
If we reimbursed for prevention, wouldn't we have to stop reimbursing for a lot of treatments? There's only so much we can spend.
The question should not be zero sum. We should invest where we make our highest returns. We should put our money wherever there is a very high positive return, and where there isn't a high positive return, we should think hard about investing.
To go back to treatments, which ones would you get rid of because they don't produce a high positive return?
End-of-life care, particularly end-of-life care that keeps you in a low functional state, like keeping people alive after a massive stroke. Saving very premature infants.
I can imagine the response you'd get if you tried taking those treatments away.
The question isn't, ''Should we be doing this?'' It is, ''Should we be publicly subsidizing it?'' We could say that you can have a basic package of health insurance, and if you want to buy coverage for other services with unknown benefits or with benefits that are potentially negative, that's up to you.
If we actually prevent diseases or conditions, would our bills go up in the end? People would live longer and develop lots of other chronic diseases that can be expensive to control or treat. And they would draw Social Security.
In the fiscal sense, health improvement can cost us money. But that totally ignores the value to society.
For example, H.I.V. prior to antiretroviral therapy was like a death sentence. With the introduction of those drugs, we took a killer and made it more like a chronic illness. There was a lot of hand-wringing about how do we pay for the drugs. But that completely ignores the value to society.
We think of health care as an expense, but we really should be thinking of health care as an investment. We want to invest where we have the greatest return. I would put prevention in that bucket.
But the way we do it now, no one has an incentive to invest in things with a long-term return.
What are those things with a long-term return?
Obesity, smoking and diabetes prevention. With obesity, a lot of people who are overweight do pretty well, and we don't have a good intervention to prevent obesity. So I would target people with obesity and other problems, like high blood pressure or diabetes. And for sure I would target the morbidly obese, people with a body mass index above 40.
What does all this mean for health care reform?
The point of health care reform was essentially to get people insurance. You could say that we would pay for what we really care about, which is health. But health care insurance has not succeeded in giving people health.
Is the term wrong? We call it health care, but should we instead call it disease care?
Yes. Disease care. I agree completely.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: REDIRECTION: The economist Dana Goldman believes that prevention should drive health care reimbursement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); SMOKING (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); OBESITY (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); LOBBYING (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); BIOMEDICINE (73%); DIABETES (72%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (71%); BARIATRICS (71%); CHOLESTEROL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



818 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Fear: Spain and Greece Sink Together

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- In a season of nightmare projections for Europe, this one could be the scariest: Greek leaves the euro currency union at the same time Spain's banking system is collapsing.
In many ways, the market convulsion last week was a test run for those crises, as political deadlock in Greece and mounting fears over the health of Bankia, one of the largest consumer banks in Spain, converged. The credit ratings agency Moody's Investors Service downgraded the entire Spanish banking sector Thursday.
As investors gird for another challenging week, they will be hoping European leaders in Brussels, if not Frankfurt where the European Central Bank is based, can finally start to map out an action plan. It is not clear that policy makers have many good options. 
The money available to Europe within its main bailout fund, about 780 billion, or $997 billion, would not be enough to handle the twin calamities of a Greek euro exit and a Spanish banking implosion.
And despite recent statements from Germany and from leaders of the Group of 8 industrialized nations meeting in the United States over the weekend to encourage economic growth in the euro zone, the European tax-paying public may have little desire to continue financing the debt disasters of other countries.
''When you have Greece and Spain happening at the same time, the problem becomes exponential and very, very dangerous,'' said Stephen Jen, a former economist at the International Monetary Fund who runs a hedge fund in London. ''So far, the policy has been to buy time and build a firewall -- but that just makes the cost bigger. There is just no good ending here.''
The numbers do look dire.
Stephane Deo, an economist at UBS, estimates that the cost of a Greek exit to European taxpayers would be 225 billion, assuming Greece defaulted on the money it now owes to European public institutions.
But, he says, the real fear is that while that was happening, the slow-motion collapse of Spanish banks from toxic real estate loans could suddenly turn into a fast-moving bank run, as depositors pulled out their money.
With Spanish banks now holding deposits of 2.3 trillion, such a loss of confidence could be disastrous for Spain and for the highly interconnected global banking system. The financial world's assumption lately has been that it is sufficiently prepared to absorb the consequences of a Greek withdrawal from the euro. But if a Spanish banking collapse were factored in, Europe's long-dreaded ''Lehman moment'' might finally arrive. ''The scale is just so much bigger, when you talk about Spain,'' Mr. Deo said.
Technocrats in Brussels will readily say that what is now keeping them up at night is Spain. They are trying to see beyond the tools that so far have kept a true crisis at bay: the two rounds of low-cost loans that the European Central Bank extended to commercial banks late last year and earlier this one, and the 780 billion bailout fund.
One potential new tool, according to Mr. Deo, would be for Europe to guarantee the bank deposits of at-risk countries like Spain. This would be similar to the way the U.S. government increased deposit insurance during the financial crisis in 2008 to head off a bank run. It would be an expensive undertaking, to be sure, and one that would have to be bankrolled largely by parsimonious Germany.
But such a drastic step might steel the shaky nerves of Spanish depositors.
Just such a step was briefly considered by European policy makers last year. But it was shelved on the assumption that North European taxpayers would not be inclined to back the banking system in Spain -- or in Italy, whose own banks have still not regained a solid footing, or in other euro zone convalescents.
And without an allocation of new money, there could be no new guarantees for depositors. The total banking deposits in Spain, Italy, Portugal and Ireland are 5.5 trillion, or seven times the size of the main European rescue vehicle, the European Financial Stability Facility.
The other problem is that a deposit guarantee does little good if the citizens of the country in question become convinced that their nation might soon abandon the euro for another currency -- as seems to be the case in Greece, where more than 60 billion in deposits have fled banks since the crisis began. Those account holders fear having euros in the bank that could overnight become drachmas with half the value or less.
So far in Spain, there has been little sign of mass flight of deposits, perhaps, in part, because no one is seriously talking right now about a Spanish exit from the euro. What has been happening, though, Spanish bankers say, is that deposits have been moving from riskier savings banks like Bankia to safer institutions like Santander and BBVA, both of which benefit from having substantial international operations. Bankia is deemed to be so close to the brink that Spain's government has seized control of it.
But there is no question that the Spanish problem with bad loans is growing worse by the month. Last week, official statistics disclosed that nonperforming loans through March were 8.37 percent of the total loans -- the highest level since 1994, long before the adoption of the euro.
And it is not only problems in commercial real estate and home-mortgage loans that are mounting. A recent report from Moody's shows that small Spanish businesses -- in many ways the backbone of the economy -- are also defaulting in increasing numbers, a sign that the Spanish recession is started to feed on itself.
This month the government ordered that Spanish banks increase their reserves against faulty loans to 84 billion.
As the health of the banks that made all these loans -- largely the casas, or savings banks -- becomes more precarious, so will the danger that depositors big and small will seek the safety of banks outside Spain, with German banks the likely havens.
And if this flight to safety began to take wing just as Europe is confronting the possibility of a Greek exit -- or Grexit, to use the crisis shorthand -- anxieties about both events could combine to make the market reaction all the worse.
''After a certain point, there is a breaking point,'' said Mr. Jen, the hedge fund manager.
Investors are now wondering if this is it.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The headquarters of Bankia in Madrid, which is losing deposits to more stable banks and was partly nationalized this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGELOS TZORTZINIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EURO (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); RETAIL BANKING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (52%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); SPAIN (98%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (88%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



819 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Betting on a Fish

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- If Americans ever eat genetically engineered fast-growing salmon, it might be because of a Soviet biologist turned oligarch turned government minister turned fish farming entrepreneur.
That man, Kakha Bendukidze, holds the key to either extinction or survival for AquaBounty Technologies, the American company that is hoping for federal approval of a type of salmon that would be the first genetically engineered animal in the human food supply.
But 20 months since the Food and Drug Administration tentatively concluded that the fish would be safe to eat and for the environment, there has been no approval. And AquaBounty is running out of money.
Mr. Bendukidze, the former economics minister of Georgia and AquaBounty's largest shareholder, says the company can stay afloat a while longer. But he is skeptical that genetically altered salmon will be approved in the United States in an election year, given the resistance from environmental and consumer groups. 
''I understand politically that it's easier not to approve than to approve,'' Mr. Bendukidze said during a recent visit to a newly acquired laboratory in San Diego, where jars of tiny zebra fish for use in genetic engineering experiments are stacked on shelves. While many people would be annoyed by the approval, he said, ''There will be no one except some scientists who will be annoyed if it is not approved.''
While opponents would cheer the company's demise, some scientists and biotechnology executives say that if transgenic animals cannot win approval in the United States, then the nation will lose its lead in animal biotechnology as work moves elsewhere. Scientists in China, in particular, are trying to develop livestock that is resistant to mad cow and foot and mouth diseases, sheep with high yields of wool, and pigs and cows with healthy omega 3 fatty acids in their meat.
''Lack of funding, lack of regulation, you can drag it out only for so long,'' said James Murray, a professor of animal science at the University of California, Davis, who has been genetically engineering goats so their milk produces human proteins that could help infants fight infections.
He is now trying to move his herd to Brazil, where he has obtained funding.
The animal biotechnology industry is anemic to begin with. AquaBounty is the only American company seriously trying to win approval for a transgenic animal for the food supply. A project at a Canadian university to develop a pig with less-polluting manure was terminated recently for lack of commercial interest.
AquaBounty's Atlantic salmon contain a growth hormone gene from the Chinook salmon. They also contain a genetic switch from an eel-like creature known as the ocean pout that keeps the gene on even in cold weather -- unlike normal salmon. With the year-round production of growth hormone, the AquaBounty fish grow to market size in 16 to 18 months instead of 30.
Some members of Congress, led by those from salmon-rich Alaska, are promoting legislation that would prohibit or delay approval. They say the AquaBounty fish might be harmful to eat or could damage wild fisheries if they were to escape into the ocean. The giant salmon, for instance, might out-compete wild salmon for food or mates.
''We're messing with what Mother Nature has done,'' Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska said in proposing such a measure last month. A $500,000 research grant awarded AquaBounty by the Agriculture Department last year was rescinded after a furor arose, company executives said.
The F.D.A. said in September 2010 that there was little chance the salmon could mate with wild fish because the salmon would be raised inland and sterilized, though the sterilization would not be foolproof. That same month, a committee of outside advisers, while finding various faults with the F.D.A. analysis, more or less endorsed its conclusion that the fish would be safe for consumers and the environment.
But with no word since and its cash dwindling, the company, which is based in Maynard, Mass., recently trimmed its work force to 12 people from 27, according to its chief executive, Ronald L. Stotish. ''We are currently the poster child for a process that we are not sure works,'' he said.
Dr. Margaret Hamburg, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said in a rare comment on a pending application that it was simply taking time for her agency to complete its analysis of the salmon.
''It's a lengthy process, especially when you are dealing with a first-in-kind product that cuts across many dimensions,'' she said in a brief interview. She said that a revised environmental assessment, a step necessary for approval, would be issued ''very soon.''
AquaBounty's precarious condition has made the company dependent on Mr. Bendukidze, who owns nearly a 48 percent stake. Since shareholder approval is required to issue new stock, he can effectively control how much money the company raises.
In March, AquaBounty raised $2 million, enough to keep the company in business only until around the end of the year, according to regulatory filings in London, where the company's stock is traded. Mr. Bendukidze provided nearly half of that. In return, however, AquaBounty agreed to sell its research and development operations to him -- for a mere dollar.
''It was not an appealing deal, but it was the only deal available to us,'' Mr. Stotish said.
Mr. Bendukidze was in San Diego in late April to visit his lab. Scientists there are genetically engineering zebra fish, the laboratory mice of the aquatic world, to test modifications that might be used on salmon and other seafood. One goal is to develop fast-growing tilapia, a commonly farmed fish that is growing in popularity in the United States.
Mr. Bendukidze, 56, began his career as a molecular biologist in a research institute outside Moscow, working on genetically engineering viruses for vaccine use. He later started a company selling biology supplies. When parts of the Soviet economy were privatized, he earned a reputation as a corporate raider, building through acquisitions and leading United Heavy Machinery, a large maker of equipment for mining, oil drilling and power generation.
In 2004, Mr. Bendukidze returned to his native Georgia as economics minister under Mikheil Saakashvili, the newly elected president. With a free-market philosophy and a penchant for insulting those who disagreed with him, Mr. Bendukidze earned his share of enemies as he moved to deregulate and privatize the economy.
He still lives in Georgia and now spends his time as chairman of the Free University of Tbilisi, which he founded. He also set up Linnaeus Capital Partners to manage his money. It has increasingly focused on aquaculture, with stakes in companies in Greece, Israel and Britain, in addition to AquaBounty.
''I had no idea of aquaculture,'' Mr. Bendukidze said. ''I was just looking for some diversified investments.''
Linnaeus has put $8 million into AquaBounty since early 2010. In the March financing, other shareholders also invested, in part to prevent Mr. Bendukidze from gaining majority control of the company.
Mr. Bendukidze said he was not interested in developing a salmon farming business but rather was interested in AquaBounty for its technology, which he said fit in with two trends he saw occurring in aquaculture.
One is that more efforts will be made to genetically improve farmed fish, either through engineering or breeding, much as is now done by breeding livestock.
The other would be a shift from raising fish in ocean pens to inland industrialized facilities, in which conditions can be controlled. The fast-growing salmon can be produced for 20 percent less, he said, making it more feasible to raise them inland.
Having obtained AquaBounty's laboratory, Mr. Bendukidze stands to benefit even if the salmon are not approved. Still, he said, he was confident the fish would eventually win approval and consumer acceptance because of its lower production costs.
''Salmon is salmon,'' he said. ''At the end of the day, economics will win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tanks of zebra fish for genetic studies at a San Diego lab owned by a former Soviet scientist, Kakha Bendukidze.
Xavier Lauth, a scientist, working with zebra fish in a lab at the Center for Aquaculture Technologies. (B1)
 Kakha Bendukidze acquired the lab after agreeing to give AquaBounty more cash. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (93%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); MAMMALS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); AQUACULTURE (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (77%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (76%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (76%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (71%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (70%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (68%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); MARKET SIZE (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (56%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); GEORGIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



820 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Pack the Frugality

BYLINE: By HARRIET EDLESON

 BODY:
Companies are sending their employees on the road again. But with travel costs almost back to where they were before the recession, companies are trying various tacks to control spending.
About a fifth of business travelers operate under mandated travel programs, which require them to use the airlines, hotels and car rental companies their employer has chosen, according to the Global Business Travel Association Foundation's Global Business Traveler Study 2012, sponsored by Concur.
Roughly a third work for a company that has no preferred travel vendors, the study found. The rest, almost half of business travelers, fall in between -- their employer encourages them to use specific airlines, hotels and car rental companies, but does not mandate it. 
But beyond trying to keep more direct control over travel costs, companies are turning to other methods to hold down their travel bills, including use of videoconferencing equipment, reserving rooms at less expensive hotels and reducing the number of employees sent to meetings. Even per diems, which had disappeared almost a decade ago, have come back, said Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean of the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University.
Travel prices peaked in 2007, then fell the next two years. They began to rise again in 2010, Mr. Hanson said, and are expected to continue to increase this year by about 4 to 6 percent, depending on the sector and the region.
But even with higher costs, business travel has come back. ''The market actually recovered from what it lost in 2009 by the end of 2011, almost,'' said Lorraine Sileo, vice president of research for the travel market research firm PhoCusWright. The total corporate travel market in the United States -- defined as corporate travel revenue from airlines, car rentals and hotels -- grew to $90.7 billion in 2011, up from $72.4 billion in 2009, though still not back to the $98.3 billion of 2008, according to PhoCusWright. Revenue is expected to grow by 6 percent this year to about $96 billion, and another 4 percent next year.
''Cost-cutting,'' Ms. Sileo said, ''continues to be center stage for corporations.''
To keep a closer eye on spending, some companies have created individual profiles in their online booking systems. ''If you try to do something outside of policy, the system will kick off a message to your manager,'' said Christa Degnan Manning, director of research for American Express Global Business Travel. Or your profile may not allow you to book a business-class airline seat.
Many companies negotiate discounted rates for airline tickets, hotel rooms and rental cars through a corporate travel agency or directly with travel companies by promising them a certain market share. If too many airfares, hotel rooms or rental cars are booked outside these so-called preferred suppliers, the suppliers may be reluctant to negotiate as low a rate in the future, said Jay Ellenby, president and chief executive of Safe Harbors Business Travel Group, Bel Air, Md.
Negotiated room rates, for example, can include amenities like breakfast and Internet access, so when comparing them to the rates marketed directly to consumers, ''it's important to distinguish rate versus value,'' said John R. Hach, senior vice president for global product management at TravelClick, an e-commerce service provider in New York. Cost differences can be misleading, he said. The fare on a mobile device may appear to be lower, but it may, for instance, be for a nonrefundable ticket. Or the cost listed on a car rental Web site may not include the collision and theft coverage provided in the corporate rate.
But even as companies try to hold the line on travel spending, they are also seeking to avoid being seen as too strict. ''You have to be kind, gentle and still be educating,'' said Jim McMullan, global travel manager at Research Triangle Institute in North Carolina.
''You want the place to be viewed as a good place to work,'' Mr. McMullan said: ''I'm not here to stop your travel. I'm here to ensure you spend the travel money wisely.''
Ms. Degnan Manning of American Express agrees. ''Corporations want to be seen as supporting employees not just about cutting costs.''
One of the ways some corporations (and the federal government) sweeten travel for employees is to allow them keep their loyalty points, including frequent-flier miles and hotel points. ''They're a big deal,'' said Steve Simmons, who works out of San Francisco as assistant vice president for strategic alliances with Cognizant Technology Solutions, and logs more than 100,000 miles a year with trips to India, Europe and throughout North America.
Some corporations require employees to book travel through the corporate booking channel. Hewlett-Packard, for instance, has about 300,000 employees worldwide, and about a third of them travel for business, said Maria Chevalier, global director of travel and meeting services for the company. With an annual travel and entertainment budget of $1.3 billion, H.P. uses its large volume of airline tickets and hotel and car rentals to secure negotiated rates. Travel companies guarantee to match a fare or rate if a traveler finds a lower one with the same airline, hotel or rental car company, Ms. Chevalier said. Though value for dollars spent is important, ''travelers' safety and security comes first,'' she said. Corporations want to be able to track their employees in the event of a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other emergency.
Rather than imposing penalties, some corporations are rewarding travelers who stick to policy. H.P. and Coca-Cola, for example, have begun using computer game techniques to encourage compliance with corporate travel policy. Employees who earn high scores for following the rules may even bring that score to their performance review. ''It's another data point to reinforce that you're a good employee,'' Ms. Chevalier said.
Corporate travel experts suggested these ways to comply with typical corporate travel policies:
Book in advance, preferably 14 days, and select a negotiated airfare.
Accept the fare that the company's online booking system suggests, said Tom Ruesink, owner of the Ruesink Consulting Group in Burnsville, Minn.
Book business class only if permitted by the company and only for the allowed length of a nonstop flight, typically more than eight or 10 hours.
Know your company's policy before you book through your mobile device.
''Some companies are very strict,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, co-founder of the Atmosphere Research Group, an airline and travel industry analyst based in San Francisco. ''If you book outside policy, and you do not get permission, you run the risk of not being reimbursed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Hach, a TravelClick executive, says ''it's important to distinguish rate versus value'' in travel suppliers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); AIR FARES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (73%); SPORTS BUSINESS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (52%); SPORTS (52%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (51%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



821 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Troves of Personal Data, Forbidden to Researchers

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
PALO ALTO, Calif. -- When scientists publish their research, they also make the underlying data available so the results can be verified by other scientists.
At least that is how the system is supposed to work. But lately social scientists have come up against an exception that is, true to its name, huge.
It is ''big data,'' the vast sets of information gathered by researchers at companies like Facebook, Google and Microsoft from patterns of cellphone calls, text messages and Internet clicks by millions of users around the world. Companies often refuse to make such information public, sometimes for competitive reasons and sometimes to protect customers' privacy. But to many scientists, the practice is an invitation to bad science, secrecy and even potential fraud. 
The issue came to a boil last month at a scientific conference in Lyon, France, when three scientists from Google and the University of Cambridge declined to release data they had compiled for a paper on the popularity of YouTube videos in different countries.
The chairman of the conference panel -- Bernardo A. Huberman, a physicist who directs the social computing group at HP Labs here -- responded angrily. In the future, he said, the conference should not accept papers from authors who did not make their data public. He was greeted by applause from the audience.
In February, Dr. Huberman had published a letter in the journal Nature warning that privately held data was threatening the very basis of scientific research. ''If another set of data does not validate results obtained with private data,'' he asked, ''how do we know if it is because they are not universal or the authors made a mistake?''
He added that corporate control of data could give preferential access to an elite group of scientists at the largest corporations. ''If this trend continues,'' he wrote, ''we'll see a small group of scientists with access to private data repositories enjoy an unfair amount of attention in the community at the expense of equally talented researchers whose only flaw is the lack of right 'connections' to private data.''
Facebook and Microsoft declined to comment on the issue. Hal Varian, Google's chief economist, said he sympathized with the idea of open data but added that the privacy issues were significant.
''This is one of the reasons the general pattern at Google is to try to release data to everyone or no one,'' he said. ''I have been working to get companies to release more data about their industries. The idea is that you can provide proprietary data aggregated in a way that poses no threats to privacy.''
The debate will only intensify as large companies with deep pockets do more research about their users. ''In the Internet era,'' said Andreas Weigend, a physicist and former chief scientist at Amazon, ''research has moved out of the universities to the Googles, Amazons and Facebooks of the world.''
But while social and data scientists agree on the importance of replicating experimental results, there is less consensus on what should be done and how to deal with concerns about privacy.
At leading social science journals, there are few clear guidelines on data sharing. ''The American Journal of Sociology does not at present have a formal position on proprietary data,'' its editor, Andrew Abbott, a sociologist at the University of Chicago, wrote in an e-mail. ''Nor does it at present have formal policies enforcing the sharing of data.''
The problem is not limited to the social sciences. A recent review found that 44 of 50 leading scientific journals instructed their authors on sharing data but that fewer than 30 percent of the papers they published fully adhered to the instructions. A 2008 review of sharing requirements for genetics data found that 40 of 70 journals surveyed had policies, and that 17 of those were ''weak.''
The data-sharing policy of the journal Science says, ''All data necessary to understand, assess and extend the conclusions of the manuscript must be available to any reader of Science.'' But in the case of a 2010 article based on data from cellphone patterns, a legal agreement with the data provider prevented the researchers from even disclosing the country of origin.
Ginger Pinholster, a spokeswoman for the American Association for the Advancement of Science, which publishes the journal, acknowledged that on ''rare occasions'' Science does allow exceptions to its publication guidelines to protect privacy. ''Information about movements in particular locations'' could provide personal information, she said, ''and the authors also had to promise privacy in order to get the information from the phone company.''
The journal did not note the policy exception when it published the article.
Similarly, an April 2011 article in the journal PLoS One stated that the research was ''based on the records of 72.4 million calls and 17.1 million text messages accumulated over a one-month period,'' but did not identify the provider of the information.
A founder of PLoS, Michael Eisen, a cell biologist at the University of California, Berkeley, who is a a forceful advocate for ''open science,'' sounded rueful about that paper in an e-mail message. ''It's antithetical to the basic norms of science to make claims that cannot be validated because the necessary data are proprietary,'' he wrote.
The issue was foreshadowed in a 2009 essay in Science whose authors included Albert-Laszlo Barabasi, a physicist at Northeastern University who was also an author of the controversial papers in Science and PLoS One.
''Perhaps the thorniest challenges exist on the data side, with respect to access and privacy,'' they wrote. They warned that even anonymizing data sets could be imperfect, and they called for new models for collaboration between industry and academia to aid research and safeguard privacy.
Last year the National Science Foundation said that researchers who receive its funds would be ''expected'' to share data with other researchers.
Many scientists agree that this is as it should be.
''The obvious answer is that there needs to be more access to data,'' said Alex Pentland, director of the Human Dynamics Laboratory at M.I.T. ''That is beginning to happen as governments and industry realize that they need to better understand the promise and limits of big data; for instance, we will be announcing a huge, multicountry release of phone data soon.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); WRITERS (87%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); TRENDS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); BIG DATA (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LYON, FRANCE (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



822 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Taxi Agency May Increase Fares by 20%

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
New York City's Taxi and Limousine Commission agreed on Monday to formally consider a proposal from the yellow cab industry that would raise taxi fares by as much as 20 percent, a significant increase to a pricing structure that has been virtually unchanged since 2006.
While the precise details of how the higher rates would be put into effect are still being drawn up, the Bloomberg administration supports a taxi fare increase, making it likely that one will be approved and that it could take effect as soon as mid-July. 
Officials at the taxi commission said there were compelling reasons to grant the industry's wish for higher prices, like allowing fares to keep up with the rate of inflation and recent increases in gasoline prices.
''The fare hasn't changed since 2006, so it is reasonable for taxi drivers and fleet owners to put this on the table,'' David S. Yassky, the taxi and limousine commissioner, said in a statement on Monday.
The city has scheduled a public hearing on the matter for May 31, when the commission is expected to consider an increase of 16 percent to 20 percent. Such hearings are almost never arranged unless a fare increase is under serious consideration.
The fare proposal comes amid a time of flux for the taxicab industry, which has recently experienced some of the biggest upheavals in its history.
Led by Mr. Yassky, the city established a new class of metered cabs to serve northern Manhattan and the other boroughs, angering owners of yellow taxi fleets, who are concerned about the competition that the new taxis would pose. The city also plans to mandate that all cab owners replace their cars with a single vehicle, a customized Nissan minivan. Both initiatives have been challenged in court by industry groups.
The fare increase, however, seems to have broader support among drivers and cab owners.
Bhairavi Desai, the executive director of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, applauded the proposed measure. She said the group hoped that the increases would be applied to mileage and waiting time charges, rather than the base fee, so that ''people on shorter trips are not subsidizing the longer trips.''
It is unclear, though, if and how the commission might adjust so-called lease caps -- the amount that a fleet or taxi owner can charge drivers for the use of a cab or a medallion. If the caps rise, Ms. Desai said, ''then we won't get a real raise.''
Michael Woloz, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, urged the city to adjust the lease cap figure to offset rising operating costs for fleets. In 2010, the group filed a petition to increase fares and lease caps by about 20 percent each, Mr. Woloz said.
The last across-the-board increase in taxi fares was in 2004, when the fare rose by 26 percent. In 2006, the city raised the price charged for each minute a cab is stopped or moving slowly; in 2009, a 50-cent surcharge was added to help support the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
The average taxi ride in January cost $11.82, for a trip of slightly less than three miles. A 20 percent increase would bring that fare to $14.18. A trip to Kennedy International Airport, which is currently $45, could reach $54, not counting the cost of tolls.
While some riders acknowledged that an increase was both inevitable and perhaps overdue, others said its potential timing, amid a still-sputtering economy, was ill-advised.
''It's expensive enough as it is,'' said Stacey Momo, 26, a nurse from Staten Island. who often hails taxis so she can catch the Staten Island Ferry after evenings in Manhattan with friends.
Yahyia Gassem, 41, a taxi driver who also works for a car service, said a fare increase could provide a boon. He can look forward to greater profits inside his taxi, he said, then tout the bargain price he asks for a ride in his black Town Car.
Near West 39th Street on Eighth Avenue, another taxi driver leaned on his hood during a break and offered his own assessment.
''It's a good idea,'' the driver said. Then he eyed the taxi line forming outside the Port Authority Bus Terminal. ''Maybe not a good idea for the people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (99%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); CITIES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); PETITIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



823 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Adds Firepower In Pursuit Of Violators

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
9:17 p.m. Updated A corporate lawyer, a professional trader and an anonymous middleman carried out a lucrative insider trading scheme for nearly two decades, baffling federal authorities who were trying to unravel the mystery. Like characters in a crime novel, the three men evaded arrest by dumping cellphones, using code names and rendezvousing in Atlantic City to divide their bounty.
Then last year, authorities found the culprits. Relying on new tools, investigators at the Securities and Exchange Commission traced the conspiracy to Matthew H. Kluger, Garrett D. Bauer and Kenneth T. Robinson. In April, the three men, who have all pleaded guilty to criminal charges, agreed to pay the S.E.C. roughly $32 million.
Embarrassed after missing the warning signs of the financial crisis and the Ponzi scheme of Bernard L. Madoff, the agency's enforcement division has adopted several new - if somewhat unconventional - strategies to restore its credibility. The S.E.C. is taking its cue from criminal authorities, studying statistical formulas to trace connections, creating a powerful unit to cull tips and assign cases and even striking a deal with the Federal Bureau of Investigation to have agents embedded with the regulator. 
''We were given a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to rethink what we do and how we do it,'' said Robert Khuzami, the agency's enforcement chief since 2009 and a former federal prosecutor who once was the general counsel of Deutsche Bank.
In one of the agency's first efforts, Mr. Khuzami and his boss, Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman, sought to tear down the agency's bureaucratic barriers. The S.E.C. had more than 70 tip lines, including e-mail and voice mail, but no central repository. To consolidate the tip system, Ms. Schapiro dispatched a top lieutenant, Stephen L. Cohen, to help create a database from scratch.
Now, all tips and referrals - regardless of the source - are put in a single database. S.E.C. employees must put a tip into the system within three days.
The agency also created an office to analyze and manage the tips, resembling the F.B.I.'s terrorist review center. Called the Office of Market Intelligence, the unit serves as a ''point guard'' for the agency - harvesting investigative tips, conducting preliminary investigation and passing on cases to enforcement lawyers.
To lead the effort, the S.E.C. selected one of its rising stars, Thomas A. Sporkin, whose father was the agency's enforcement director in the 1970s. Mr. Sporkin has built a team of more than 40 former traders, exchange experts, accountants and securities lawyers to sift through roughly 200 pieces of intelligence a day, distilling the hottest tips into a daily ''intelligence report.''
''It's the central intelligence office for the whole agency,'' Mr. Sporkin said.
The overhaul came with an upgrade in technology. The hub of Mr. Sporkin's outfit is a ''market watch room,'' replete with Bloomberg terminals and real-time stock pricing monitors that keep an eye on the markets.
In a less conventional move, the group is working closely with the Justice Department to share data and connect investigative dots. An F.B.I. agent is assigned to assist Mr. Sporkin's team, sorting through potential cases to weed out bogus tips. The current agent, Bryan Smith, a former business consultant who specializes in white-collar fraud, can also tap into the F.B.I. database to see whether a subject has drawn past scrutiny.
As part of the shake-up, the S.E.C. has adopted several other Justice Department techniques. Following the lead of criminal authorities, the S.E.C. now offers leniency for cooperating witnesses who agree to give evidence against their co-conspirators, a strategy Mr. Khuzami has called a potential ''game changer.''
The F.B.I. has reaped benefits, too. Mr. Smith has access to all S.E.C. databases, offering a wealth of information about potential violators. Using tips from Mr. Sporkin's office, the bureau recently located a fugitive and has identified cooperating witnesses.
The two organizations walk a fine legal line. Federal law prohibits the F.B.I. from sharing certain information with civil regulators, including evidence from a grand jury. On occasion, embedded agents will use the S.E.C. database for their own classified investigations, without telling Mr. Sporkin the identity of the person being examined.
Mr. Sporkin said the agency had to be careful navigating the relationship, mindful that it was sharing proprietary data with another federal agency. ''Given that the other agency is the F.B.I., we're willing to take that risk - we're more concerned with getting the bad guys,'' he said.
The new tactics appear to be bearing fruit. The S.E.C. filed a record 735 enforcement actions last fiscal year. One of the biggest wins was a $93 million insider trading sanction against the former hedge fund titan Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group who was also convicted of related criminal charges.
But the new firepower does not always yield big game. One recent action involved a paralegal and her father who were accused of earning about $67,000 by trading on inside information.
Some critics also question whether the agency's intense focus on insider trading distracts from cases of greater significance to the economy and the financial system. Since the crisis, the agency has filed actions against several big banks but almost none against top executives running the firms. The agency points out, however, that it has sued 102 firms and individuals in cases tied to the crisis, including top executives at major mortgage firms.
''There are a lot of things that cause more harm to investors than insider trading,'' said James D. Cox, a professor at Duke Law School. ''On the scale of abuses to investors, I put it at a 3.''
The S.E.C. said that it created five units to track market abuse like insider trading and complex corners of Wall Street like hedge funds and derivatives. The agency also defends its emphasis on insider trading, saying that the crime destroys confidence in public markets, giving an upper hand to Wall Street's well-connected elite and putting average investors at a disadvantage.
As with much of the enforcement division, the market abuse unit, headed by Daniel M. Hawke, has taken a novel approach to insider trading cases. Rather than examining questionable trades in specific stocks, Mr. Hawke and his team now analyze suspicious traders and their network of connections on Wall Street. The investigators have turned to statistics, using tools like ''cluster analysis'' and ''fuzzy matching,'' to identify relationships and trading patterns that sometimes go undetected.
''We are taking a more intelligent and proactive approach,'' said Mr. Hawke, a senior enforcement official who led the investigation into the $32 million insider trading scheme, one of the first significant actions to stem from the overhaul.
The new efforts paid off last year for the investigation, which started in the late 1990s, when Garrett Bauer popped up on the S.E.C.'s radar. But the agency, unable to find the source of the tips, hit a wall. In 2010, when the S.E.C. switched gears to use the trader-centered approach, the cold case began to heat up. The agency found that many of Mr. Bauer's trades had come ahead of mergers that were advised by Wilson Sonsini, the law firm of Matthew Kluger.
Investigators also noticed that Kenneth Robinson, who had been the go-between for decades, was trading in some of the same stocks as Mr. Bauer. And then the S.E.C. caught a crucial break: Mr. Robinson traded in two stocks linked to Wilson Sonsini.
Armed with the S.E.C.'s intelligence and other evidence, the F.B.I. raided Mr. Robinson's home. After that, Mr. Robinson began wearing a wire to ensnare his partners. The men spoke freely on tape, recorded by the F.B.I., under the impression that they had outsmarted federal authorities.
''It's going to kill them that they don't have enough,'' Mr. Kluger said on the recordings, referencing federal authorities. ''They don't like to go to court without phone calls.''
With the tapes, the three men confessed - and the government never had to go to trial. They are scheduled to be sentenced in the coming weeks.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas A. Sporkin leads a team of more than 40 intelligence workers within the S.E.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PONZI SCHEMES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (57%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



824 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4611 words

HEADLINE: Public Money Finds Back Door to Private Schools

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
When the Georgia legislature passed a private school scholarship program in 2008, lawmakers promoted it as a way to give poor children the same education choices as the wealthy.
The program would be supported by donations to nonprofit scholarship groups, and Georgians who contributed would receive dollar-for-dollar tax credits, up to $2,500 a couple. The intent was that money otherwise due to the Georgia treasury -- about $50 million a year -- would be used instead to help needy students escape struggling public schools.
That was the idea, at least. But parents meeting at Gwinnett Christian Academy got a completely different story last year.
''A very small percentage of that money will be set aside for a needs-based scholarship fund,'' Wyatt Bozeman, an administrator at the school near Atlanta, said during an informational session. ''The rest of the money will be channeled to the family that raised it.'' 
A handout circulated at the meeting instructed families to donate, qualify for a tax credit and then apply for a scholarship for their own children, many of whom were already attending the school.
''If a student has friends, relatives or even corporations that pay Georgia income tax, all of those people can make a donation to that child's school,'' added an official with a scholarship group working with the school.
The exchange at Gwinnett Christian Academy, a recording of which was obtained by The New York Times, is just one example of how scholarship programs have been twisted to benefit private schools at the expense of the neediest children.
Spreading at a time of deep cutbacks in public schools, the programs are operating in eight states and represent one of the fastest-growing components of the school choice movement. This school year alone, the programs redirected nearly $350 million that would have gone into public budgets to pay for private school scholarships for 129,000 students, according to the Alliance for School Choice, an advocacy organization. Legislators in at least nine other states are considering the programs.
While the scholarship programs have helped many children whose parents would have to scrimp or work several jobs to send them to private schools, the money has also been used to attract star football players, expand the payrolls of the nonprofit scholarship groups and spread the theology of creationism, interviews and documents show. Even some private school parents and administrators have questioned whether the programs are a charade.
Most of the private schools are religious. Nearly a quarter of the participating schools in Georgia require families to make a profession of religious faith, according to their Web sites. Many of those schools adhere to a fundamentalist brand of Christianity. A commonly used sixth-grade science text retells the creation story contained in Genesis, omitting any other explanation. An economics book used in some high schools holds that the Antichrist -- a world ruler predicted in the New Testament -- will one day control what is bought and sold.
The programs are insulated from provisions requiring church-state separation because the donations are collected and distributed by the nonprofit scholarship groups.
A cottage industry of these groups has sprung up, in some cases collecting hundreds of thousands of dollars in administrative fees, according to tax filings. The groups often work in concert with private schools like Gwinnett Christian Academy to solicit donations and determine who will get the scholarships -- in effect limiting school choice for the students themselves. In most states, students who withdraw from the schools cannot take the scholarship money with them.
Public school officials view the tax credits as poorly disguised state subsidies, part of an expanding agenda to shift tax dollars away from traditional public schools. ''Our position is that this is a shell game,'' said Chris Thomas, general counsel for the Arizona School Boards Association.
Some of the programs have also become enmeshed in politics, including in Pennsylvania, where more than 200 organizations distribute more than $40 million a year donated by corporations. Two of the state's largest scholarship organizations are controlled by lobbyists, and they frequently ask lawmakers to help decide which schools get the money, according to interviews. The arrangement provides a potential opportunity for corporate donors seeking to influence legislators and also gives the lobbying firms access to both lawmakers and potential new clients.
The programs differ from state to state, with varying tax benefits for donors and varying rules on who may receive the scholarships. Arizona's largest program permits donors to recommend students who already attend private schools. Pennsylvania's program lets them get scholarships and also lets scholarship organizations retain up to 20 percent in administrative fees.
Some states have moved to tighten restrictions after receiving complaints. In Florida, where the scholarships are strictly controlled to make sure they go to poor families, only corporations are eligible for the tax credits, eliminating the chance of parents donating for their own benefit. Also, all scholarships are handled by one nonprofit organization, and its fees are limited to 3 percent of donations. Florida also permits the scholarships to move with the students if they elect to change schools.
David Figlio, a professor at Northwestern University who has studied Florida's program, said it was an important alternative to public schools for some families. ''They're doing it because they're feeling stuck,'' Dr. Figlio said. ''Their kids are doing poorly in the classroom, and they don't know why.''
In Georgia, the scholarship program was criticized for widespread abuses in a report last year by the Southern Education Foundation, a nonprofit group based in Atlanta that works to improve education.
State Representative Earl Ehrhart, a Republican who helped write the Georgia law, called that report ''sophistry'' and said that any abuses in the program were anomalies. ''I can't tell you about the difference it makes in the lives of these kids,'' Mr. Ehrhart said.
The report found that from 2007, the year before the program was enacted, through 2009, private school enrollment increased by only one-third of one percent in the metropolitan counties that included most of the private schools in the scholarship program.
The logical conclusion was that most of the students receiving the scholarships had not come from public schools.
''The law was passed under a certain promise,'' said Steve Suitts, vice president of the foundation. ''There is no evidence it's going to those purposes. The kids who were supposed to benefit are not benefiting.''
'Fiendishly Clever'
The scholarship programs represent the expansion of a mission that began more than 10 years ago, when the school choice movement ran into headwinds over the use of vouchers. Vouchers, which directly use public money to finance private school educations, were unpopular among many voters and legislators, and several state courts had found them unconstitutional.
Proponents decided to reposition themselves, and in 1997, Arizona's Legislature adopted the first tax-credit scholarship program.
For school choice advocates, the genius of the program was that the money would never go into public accounts, making it less susceptible to court challenges. Representative Trent Franks, an Arizona Republican and former state lawmaker, is credited with the idea of routing the donations through nonprofit organizations. ''The teachers' union called it fiendishly clever,'' Mr. Franks said during a recent interview.
''The difficulty of getting at this thing from a constitutional point of view is that there are private dollars coming from a private individual and going to a private foundation. It drives the N.E.A. completely off the wall because they can't say this is government funding,'' Mr. Franks said, referring to the National Education Association.
Kevin Welner, a professor of education at the University of Colorado, Boulder, who wrote a book on the tax-credit programs, dubbed them ''neovouchers.''
As predicted, tax credits have thus far withstood legal challenges, most recently when the Supreme Court upheld Arizona's program last year. It had been challenged on the grounds that it violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, which prohibits government endorsement of religion.
A national network of school choice advocates has been promoting the programs with financing from conservative activists and foundations. The advocacy groups do everything from financing political advertising to lobbying state legislatures. One group, the American Federation for Children in Washington, D.C., has not shied from the rough-and-tumble of state politics.
In Florida's 2010 election, the federation supplied $255,000 to finance an organization that paid for advertising against Dan Gelber, who was running for attorney general and had opposed state financing for private schools.
The ads, mailed to Jewish neighborhoods, called Mr. Gelber ''toxic to Jewish education.'' His staff found out about them from his 11-year-old daughter, who called the office in tears after finding an ad in their mailbox.
One big proponent of the tax-credit programs is the American Legislative Exchange Council, a coalition of conservative lawmakers and corporations that strongly influences many state legislatures. The council became a flash point in the Trayvon Martin case because it had championed the controversial Stand Your Ground gun laws.
''ALEC is a huge player in pushing forward a conservative agenda based on the premise that the free market and private sectors address social problems better than the government,'' said Julie Underwood, dean of the school of education at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, who has been critical of ALEC's education agenda.
Scholarship legislation was approved in Virginia this year and is gaining traction in other states, including New Hampshire and New Jersey, according to Malcom Glenn, a spokesman for the American Federation for Children. Schools participating in the programs range from elite private academies to small, inexpensive programs operating in church education wings. The New Jersey proposal would establish a five-year pilot program in several school districts, including Lakewood, a community with a number of Yeshivas.
''It's spreading,'' said Mr. Ehrhart, the Georgia lawmaker. ''It's clearly a reaction to parents' concern about the educational experiences of their kids.''
Enrolling for Dollars
After Georgia's scholarship program was adopted, parents of children in private schools began flooding public school offices to officially ''enroll'' their children.
Their plan was to fill out the paperwork even though they had no intention of ever sending their children to public schools. According to the way the law was interpreted, the enrollments would make them eligible for scholarships. Some public schools balked.
''I recently contacted you about having some trouble enrolling/registering my child in a public school while he is going to a private school,'' one parent wrote to a scholarship organization last year in an e-mail obtained by The Times. ''A principal told us he cannot attend two schools at the same time, which is simply not true because public and private schools have nothing to do with each other. But we need to have my child enrolled in a public school in order to qualify for the student scholarship program.''
The idea, based on a technical interpretation of the word ''enroll,'' was promoted by State Representative David Casas, a Republican and co-sponsor of the scholarship legislation in Georgia. In meetings with parents, he had explained that the bill's wording was intentional -- using the word ''enrolled'' rather than ''attending'' -- to enable the scholarships' use by students already in private schools.
Parents questioned the idea. ''Aren't people going to say that's a scam?'' asked one father during a presentation by Mr. Casas that was posted on YouTube. '' 'You've been going here for nine years. Now you're enrolling in public school? You're enrolled in two schools?' ''
Mr. Casas, the president of a seminary, assured him it was not a scam. ''Feel fine about it,'' Mr. Casas said.
''Some people felt a little weird about that, felt it was dishonest that they would take their child, enroll them in a public school and not have them actually attend, but all of a sudden they actually qualified for a scholarship,'' Mr. Casas said at another meeting, where he called the program ''too good to be true.'' A transcript of the comments was contained in the Southern Education Foundation report. Mr. Casas did not respond to inquiries seeking comment.
The Georgia Department of Education endorsed the interpretation.
Some scholarship programs rejected the idea, including one whose focus is on low-income students. ''We actually checked that out and called the Department of Education,'' said Derek Monjure, who runs a scholarship organization called Arete Scholars Fund. ''They agreed with it, but we didn't feel right with it and didn't do it. It was confusing to be told by the state organization that it's right.''
Georgia's largest scholarship organization, the Georgia Goal Scholarship Program, said it interpreted the law to require that students must have attended public school for one semester, unless they are beginning school. The program has also established income guidelines for its recipients.
Some states collect little information on the scholarship organizations. When asked how many students switched from public to private schools, Linda Dunn, policy analyst for the Georgia Department of Education, said: ''We don't collect that data. We don't regulate them in any fashion.''
The fact that children already attending private schools can receive scholarships from some organizations means that Georgia's private schools have a ready source of donations -- parents and families of existing students. While the law was advertised as a way to help needy students, it contained no income limits for eligible recipients. And although it prohibits donations designated for a specific student, some students are benefiting from the donations of relatives and friends.
Hanaiya Hassan, whose daughter attends Hamzah Academy in Alpharetta, Ga., said she had saved $5,000 by asking four friends to donate to a scholarship organization with money earmarked for her daughter's school. ''If you collect four people for $2,500, then one of your children is free,'' she said.
The friends were awarded a tax credit. Depending on their tax bracket, some donors could actually come out ahead by filing for a federal charitable deduction as well as the state credit.
The Christian Heritage School in Dalton, Ga., circulated a flier for the 2011-12 school year titled ''TUITION BREAKS FOR CURRENT FAMILIES!'' It stated, ''The scholarship tax credit is so vital to CHS that the school is encouraging all parents to participate in the program and enlist at least two others to do the same.'' Participating families would get a 10 percent tuition rebate and a $250 bonus. The rebates would be doubled or tripled depending on overall participation.
The school has discontinued the rebate program, its controller said.
At Gwinnett Christian Academy, Mr. Bozeman, who was recorded saying that donations would be funneled to the family that raised them, did not respond to requests for comment. He has been promoted to headmaster.
Similar deals, some nicknamed ''swaps,'' in which parents donated for each other's children, have cropped up in Arizona as well, according to Mr. Thomas, the school board association general counsel there.
After news reports in 2009 about scholarships in Arizona being awarded based on the recommendations of donors, the state enacted a series of changes, including a prohibition on ''swaps.'' Mr. Thomas, however, said he believed they were continuing.
Johnathan Arnold, headmaster of Covenant Christian Academy in Cumming, Ga., said he viewed using the program to discount tuition for existing students as unethical.
''We, as a Christian school, felt that wasn't the right approach,'' he said. ''You're giving money out of the goodness of your heart with the intent to receive nothing in return. When you give it for the purpose of getting it back or actually make money on that, to me that doesn't qualify for the spirit of the law.''
Getting In On the Act
When the gas drilling company XTO Energy made generous donations for private school scholarships in Pennsylvania, the corporate largess was hailed in ceremonies across the state. As the cameras flashed at one event in Punxsutawney, Sam Smith, the speaker of the Pennsylvania House and a local native, stood with an oversize cardboard check for area private schools.
The media events began in 2010 and have generated a burst of good will for XTO at a time when the controversy over the hydraulic fracturing drilling method has been growing in Pennsylvania. One state official remarked that the company, which donated $650,000 over the past three years, had gone ''above and beyond'' its duty. In reality, as much as 90 percent of XTO's donation was underwritten by taxpayers.
Also in attendance in Punxsutawney was Peter Gleason, chairman of the Bridge Educational Foundation, the middleman organization that arranged XTO's donations. Mr. Gleason congratulated the voters of Punxsutawney for having the wisdom to send Mr. Smith to Harrisburg. In addition to serving as chairman of Bridge, Mr. Gleason is a lobbyist in Harrisburg. Two other lobbyists, who have represented XTO, serve on Bridge's advisory board, as does the chief of staff to Mr. Smith. XTO was acquired in 2010 by Exxon Mobil.
While a spokesman for XTO said the company donated to provide additional educational opportunities to Pennsylvania schoolchildren, such arrangements appear to benefit all involved -- donors with business before the legislature, lawmakers and lobbyists.
The Rev. Theodore Clater, a Pennsylvania advocate for school choice, said that Bridge and a similar Pennsylvania organization, Bravo Foundation, frequently asked lawmakers for advice when deciding where the money should go. Mr. Clater said he was not aware of any illegality, but nevertheless questioned that practice.
''You could get into all kinds of political games, favoritism,'' he said, emphasizing that his own scholarship organization tried to distribute its money without influence.
Mr. Smith said he saw no evidence that the program was politicized. Instead, he said, companies ''have a certain amount of money they're going to put in charitable contributions anyway, and they now see 'I can get a tax credit and give back to education.' ''
Bridge's director, Natalie Nutt, whose husband ran the campaign of Gov. Tom Corbett, a Republican, said all of the group's board members were selected for their devotion to school choice.
Between them, Bridge and Bravo control about $3 million in scholarship funds a year, putting them in the top 10 of more than 200 scholarship organizations in the state.
Among Bridge's founders in 2005 was John O'Connell, a lobbyist who had been a partner at Bravo.
In 2006, Mr. O'Connell pleaded guilty to federal charges of embezzling more than $200,000 from another nonprofit organization, Pennsylvania Law Watch, whose mission was to promote tort reform. Mr. O'Connell argued for a reduced sentence, citing his charitable work through Bridge and Bravo.
The federal government disagreed. ''As a lobbyist, O'Connell's involvement in the Bravo Education Foundation and later in the Bridge Foundation was very beneficial to him in a business sense in that it afforded him excellent opportunities to cultivate new corporate clients and relationships with legislative leaders,'' prosecutors wrote.
Even some lawmakers have started their own scholarship organizations. Mr. Ehrhart, the legislative sponsor of the Georgia scholarship program, is also the unpaid chief executive of a scholarship organization, the Georgia Christian Schools Scholarship Fund.
In Arizona, one of the largest of more than 50 scholarship organizations, the Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization, is controlled by State Senator Steve Yarbrough, a Republican and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. In an interview, Mr. Yarbrough pointed out that he was running the organization before he was elected to the Legislature. The organization paid Mr. Yarbrough $48,000 in 2010 and disbursed $313,000 to a company he partly owns to process scholarship applications.
Uneven Playing Fields
In Georgia, where the world revolves around high school football, the scholarships have driven a wedge between public and private schools.
Over the past few years, coaches at public high schools have complained about the defections of a number of players from large public schools who have left for small private academies. At Savannah Christian Preparatory School alone, four starting players migrated from nearby public schools and helped the team become last fall's Class A champions.
Coaches at the public schools have suspected that scholarships were given to their players by Savannah Christian and other private schools to build athletic programs. Athletic scholarships are banned in the state's high schools.
The coaches have not been able to prove their suspicions, but the growing dominance of private schools in Class A prompted the public schools last year to threaten to withdraw from the Georgia High School Association.
''This money just makes the playing field completely unlevel,'' said Larry Campbell, a coach in Lincoln County, Ga., who is known for his winning record. ''The private schools are thriving, and they've got the money to go out and recruit the great athlete.''
One star athlete, Keyante Green, went to Eagle's Landing Christian Academy in McDonough, Ga., in the ninth grade after his stunning performance in an annual championship game sponsored by an Atlanta radio personality. Keyante, then 14 and an eighth grader at a public school, was named most valuable player. His youth coach at the time, Dan Curl, predicted that Keyante would one day be heading to the N.F.L.
Within months, Mr. Curl had enrolled his son in high school at Eagle's Landing, he said, and had agreed to become a part-time middle school coach. He said he also told the school about Keyante.
''I told them I had a kid who is a good athlete, a stud athlete,'' Mr. Curl recalled recently. ''They had already seen the highlight video. They said, 'Man, bring him over.' ''
Mr. Curl said Keyante's family could not afford the approximately $10,000-a-year tuition at Eagle's Landing. He said he had helped fill out an application to the GOAL scholarship program for Keyante that first year and in the two subsequent years. The scholarship paid only part of his expenses, so Eagle's Landing's coaches sought donations to pay Keyante's remaining expenses, said Mr. Curl, who is no longer employed at the school. As a freshman in 2009, Keyante stole the show at a state playoff game with four touchdowns and 292 yards. The head coach at another school compared him to the Georgia legend Herschel Walker.
Neither Keyante, who will graduate in 2013, nor his family responded to requests for comment. Questioned about the scholarships, the Eagle's Landing assistant head of school, Chuck Gilliam, said in an e-mail that two of the school's 29 scholarship recipients played football. But he said the scholarships had ''not been used to enhance the football program.''
GOAL's director, Lisa Kelly, said in an e-mail that the organization adopted a written policy in 2009 prohibiting the use of scholarships to ''recruit and provide aid to students for athletic purposes.''
At Savannah Christian, Coach Donald Chumley, whose Raiders includes four recipients of GOAL scholarships, said: ''I'm not going to say to you that some didn't say 'I want to go to college, and I want to play football.' But we don't select them on athletic ability. We select them on need.''
Under a compromise, the public schools did not withdraw from the high school association. Instead, for the first time, the public and private schools in Class A will hold separate playoffs next fall.
A Boon for Creationists
The scholarships have amounted to a lifeline for many religious schools. One Catholic grade school in Berwick, Pa., regained its health through $87,000 in scholarship donations, according to the Rev. Edward Quinlan, the education secretary for the Diocese of Harrisburg, where nearly 20 percent of students receive scholarships. In Fort Lauderdale, Fla., 100 of the 160 students enrolled in Mount Bethel Christian Academy receive tax-credit scholarships, according to the school's headmaster.
In the Arizona case that went before the Supreme Court, the National School Boards Association joined local school officials and teachers in arguing that the program was skewed toward religious schools, openly selecting students for scholarships based on their religion.
Many religiously affiliated schools across the country are known for turning out well-educated students and teaching core subjects without a sectarian bias. But some schools financed by the tax-credit programs teach a fundamentalist dogma holding that the world was literally created in six days. Some of the schools use textbooks produced by Bob Jones University Press and A Beka Book, a Christian publisher in Pensacola, Fla.
The books became an issue in 2005 when the University of California system said it would not honor some credits of students who attended schools that use them.
In an ensuing lawsuit filed against the university by Christian schools, Donald Kennedy, a biologist who is a former president of Stanford, said in court papers that the science texts made statements that were ''flatly wrong'' and ''plainly contrary to the scientific facts'' when hewing to creationist theory. The case was ultimately decided in favor of the university.
''It's a Christian curriculum, and some parts of it are controversial,'' said Jon East, vice president for policy at Step Up For Students, the organization that runs the Florida scholarship program. The books are also used in some schools in Georgia and Pennsylvania.
An A Beka high school science text concluded that ''much variety within the human race has developed from the eight people who left the Ark.'' Another text, used in sixth grade, makes repeated references to Noah and the flood, which it calls the reason for both the world's petroleum reserves and the development of fossils.
History and economics texts are also infused with fundamentalist theology and an unabashedly conservative viewpoint. The Great Depression, one says, was exaggerated to move the country toward socialism, and it described ''The Grapes of Wrath'' as propaganda.
Frances Paterson, a professor at Valdosta State University in Georgia who has studied the books, said they ''frequently resemble partisan, political literature more than they do the traditional textbooks used in public schools.''
Mr. Arnold, the headmaster of the Covenant Christian Academy in Cumming, Ga., confirmed that his school used those texts but said they were part of a larger curriculum.
''You have to keep in mind that the curriculum goes beyond the textbook,'' Mr. Arnold said. ''Not only do we teach the students that creation is the way the world was created and that God is in control and he made all things, we also teach them what the false theories of the world are, such as the Big Bang theory and Darwinism. We teach those as fallacies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Catholic school in Pennsylvania celebrated the program. (A1)
THE MONEY FINDS A HOME: Hadyn Packer, 8, at a check presentation at St. John Neumann Regional, a Catholic school in Williamsport, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIKO J. KALLIANIOTIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
LAWMAKER IN THE LIMELIGHT: Sam Smith, speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives, at a scholarship celebration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PENNSYLVANIA HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS)
SCHOLARSHIP STAR: Keyante Green (No. 1) left public school for the Eagle's Landing Christian Academy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HURNDON PHOTOGRAPHY) (A14)
 ROUGH-AND-TUMBLE POLITICS: A school-choice group paid for ads against Dan Gelber, a Florida attorney general candidate. (A15) CHART: Comparing Major Tax-Credit Programs: A number of states have or are considering scholarship tax-credit programs to finance private school tuition. Some of these programs, which offer state tax credits to corporations and individuals who donate to nonprofit scholarship organizations, have been criticized for abuses. A comparison of tax-credit scholarship programs from Florida, Georgia, Pennsylvania and Arizona, which offers three separate programs. (Source: Alliance for School Choice) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (92%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SCHOOL CHOICE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CREATIONISM (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); FUNDAMENTALISM (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



825 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Helping Special Education Students, and Paying With His Career

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There was no particular moment when Harris Lirtzman decided to blow the whistle, and so close the door on his teaching career.
A former deputy state comptroller, he had decided to give public school teaching a midcareer whirl. In 2009, he landed a job as a special education math teacher at the Gautier Institute for Law and Public Policy, a Bronx high school.
He describes that first year as a cross between a hurricane and a tornado, learning his craft in one of the city's poorest neighborhoods. He came to love his work. 
But in September 2011, school administrators placed uncertified teachers -- and a conga line of unemployed teachers who came for one-week stints -- in classrooms filled with special education students, which is to say those children most in need of expert help.
This violated federal regulations.
Mr. Lirtzman, 56, decided to speak up. As he was not yet tenured, he stepped gingerly.
''I am NOT trying to cause problems,'' he wrote in an e-mail to his assistant principal, but, he added, ''we're violating'' court-mandated educational plans for students.
Mr. Lirtzman, unwittingly, became sand in the school's gears.
He had received nothing but satisfactory evaluations. But in December, he said, the principal, Grismaldy Laboy-Wilson, said that she would not recommend him for tenure. The next day, she told him to leave immediately.
Mr. Lirtzman took his allegations to the Office of Special Investigations, an in-house unit at the Department of Education. An investigator asked for proof.
Mr. Lirtzman handed over 20 student programs, all of which showed that administrators placed students in classrooms with uncertified teachers. The investigator informed Mr. Lirtzman that these were confidential documents.
Now I am opening an investigation of you, she told him. It would be enough to bring a smile to the lips of Kafka.
''These are the most vulnerable kids, the ones no one really looks out for,'' Mr. Lirtzman said. ''This wasn't a gray legal area. This was black and white, and the Department of Education decided that I was the problem.''
The Department of Education portrays Mr. Lirtzman as disgruntled at his failure to get tenure, and the principal declined to comment on his allegations.
New York City does not shoulder an easy burden trying to care for its tens of thousands of special education students. More than 18,000 teachers are dedicated to special education. Each student is required by law to have an individual educational plan, or I.E.P.
It's also true that the city, over many administrations, has failed many of these students. Therapy is in too short supply; students -- who wrestle with emotional and learning disabilities -- are crammed in classrooms that are too large; and administrators sometimes conspire to push out troubled children. Graduation rates for these students are vanishingly low.
As Kim Sweet, executive director of the nonprofit Advocates for Children of New York, said: ''We see cases of schools violating I.E.P.'s all the time. Our phones ring off the hook.''
Mr. Lirtzman acquired a crash course in these multiple neglects. And, although he does not phrase it so grandly, he also helped rescue a few of these children.
One such teenager, Derek Chestnut Jr., had more or less thrived in middle school, but ran upon the academic shoals at Gautier, where he was stuck in classes with a changing cast of uncertified teachers. One day, Mr. Lirtzman talked to the student's father, Derek Chestnut Sr.
''He kept hinting something was wrong, and finally he told me there were rotating aides and teachers,'' Mr. Chestnut recalled about their conversation. ''The administrators told me otherwise, and I really didn't appreciate when they tried to pull the wool over my eyes.''
Mr. Chestnut took his case to the upper reaches of the education bureaucracy. Quickly, without the usual resistance, he obtained an unusual legal letter that entitled him to place his son in a private school for special education children, all paid for by the city.
''They admitted off the bat that my son's I.E.P. was being violated,'' he said. ''I owe this to one honest man, Mr. Lirtzman. He became an advocate not just for my son, but for all special education students in that school.''
Mr. Lirtzman acknowledges that he burns hot. The Department of Education now says Ms. Laboy-Wilson filed a harassment charge against him after he sent her several particularly heated e-mails. Mr. Lirtzman, who showed me dozens of his e-mails, insists his correspondence included no threat.
He has worked at high levels in city and state government. He was not intent on career suicide.
''I wanted to be a teacher; I wanted to get tenure,'' he said. ''I wasn't trying to commit kamikaze so that I would feel good about myself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harris Lirtzman 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CONSPIRACY (69%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



826 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2029 words

HEADLINE: Physics Dreams Deferred

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
When three American astronomers won the Nobel Prize in Physics last year, for discovering that the expansion of the universe was speeding up in defiance of cosmic gravity -- as if change fell out of your pockets onto the ceiling -- it reaffirmed dark energy, the glibly named culprit behind this behavior, as the great cosmic surprise and mystery of our time.
And it underscored the case, long urged by American astronomers, for a NASA mission to measure dark energy -- to determine, for example, whether the cosmos would expand forever or whether, perhaps, there might be something wrong with our understanding of gravity.
In 2019, a spacecraft known as Euclid will begin such a mission to study dark energy. But it is being launched by the European Space Agency, not NASA, with American astronomers serving only as very junior partners, contributing $20 million and some infrared sensors. 
For some scientists, this represents an ingenious solution, allowing American astronomers access to the kind of data they will not be able to obtain on their own until NASA can mount its own, more ambitious mission in 2024.
But for others, it is a setback. It means that for at least the next decade, Americans will be relegated to a minor role in following up on their own discovery.
''While it's great to support other missions,'' said Adam Riess of Johns Hopkins and the Space Telescope Science Institute, who shared that Nobel last year, ''it would be disappointing to see the U.S. lose or outsource its own leading role in one of the hottest areas of research.''
For Dr. Riess and his colleagues, this turn of events is another example of a worrying trend in which American scientists, facing budget deficits and political gridlock, have had to pull back from or delay promising projects while teams based in Europe hunt down the long-sought Higgs boson or rocket scientists in China plan a Moon landing in 2025.
Michael Turner, a cosmologist at the University of Chicago, called dark energy ''an example of how the U.S. seems to misplay its science hand these days.''
''We predicted and discovered dark energy,'' he said. ''We have the biggest dark-energy community and the best ground game; we have been designing a space mission since 1998; and now the Europeans will fly it with our minor participation. Something is wrong with this picture.''
Saul Perlmutter, of the University of California, Berkeley, another of the dark energy Nobel winners, said, ''The danger, of course, is that we will watch the science (and scientists -- and good students) move on to other countries and continents, where projects are being begun and completed.''
With them, scientists say, could go the cultural excitement and innovative spark that invigorates the economy. The World Wide Web, for example, was invented at CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research (home to the world's most powerful particle accelerator, the Large Hadron Collider), to help particle physicists communicate.
By contrast, the United States' flagship lab for high-energy physics, the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, known as Fermilab, had to close down its accelerator. the Tevatron, last fall, and learned from the Energy Department in March that the agency could not afford to follow through for now on a $1.3 billion underground experiment to study the spooky shape-shifting properties of particles known as neutrinos in an effort to investigate why the universe is made of matter and not antimatter.
At the same time, the department also canceled money for studies for the world's next big physics machine, the International Linear Collider, which would be the successor to CERN's giant collider. American scientists are resigned to the likelihood that it will not be built in the United States.
American physicists are now rethinking how to carry out the neutrino experiment, which was to have been the centerpiece of a plan to convert the old 8,000-foot-deep Homestake gold mine in Lead, S.D., into a national laboratory for underground science.
Similar facilities in Italy, Canada and Japan have become centers in the search for dark matter, neutrino experiments and other delicate work that requires shelter from cosmic rays. But in 2010, the National Science Foundation walked away from the $875 million project, citing unease about safety and ''stewardship'' of the old mine, which is half full of water. Meanwhile with support from a philanthropist, T. Denny Sanford, the State of South Dakota has reopened parts of the mine for a pair of physics experiments.
Of course, there is no achievement of modern American science -- from the Manhattan Project to the Hubble Space Telescope to the decoding of the human genome -- that does not owe a debt to hard and even heroic bargaining in the formerly smoke-filled rooms of Congress and the White House. Complaints and grim prognostications about the federal research budget are part of the background music of science. The situation is always fluid.
Given all that, other scientists say that basic research is doing as well as can be expected given severe budgetary restraints. Among other things,NASA's Webb telescope, the successor to the Hubble, is on target for launching in 2018, at a cost of $8 billion.
The science office in the Energy Department actually got an increase in the budget released by President Obama in February, but the money went to more applied research, into areas like energy and scientific computing.
Only last month, Congress added money to the neutrino experiment, although not enough to get the whole project back on track, said Katie Yurkewicz, Fermilab's spokeswoman, and the Association of American Universities issued a statement applauding appropriators ''for their bipartisan actions thus far to sustain the nation's investment in scientific research.''
Debra Elmegreen, a professor of astronomy at Vassar and president of the American Astronomical Society, has spent a lot of time in Washington lately. ''Congress seems supportive of science,'' she said. ''I'm encouraged that people recognize the need for science and technology to continue.''
She added: ''U.S. leadership is at risk in practically every area. We'll get by for now, but we can't be complacent.''
Indeed, all bets could be off if the automated budget cuts, called ''sequestration,'' decreed by the failure of the deficit reduction negotiations last summer, go into effect in January. A certain amount of gloom has reached the most prestigious levels of American science. Writing in a recent issue of The New York Review of Books, Steven Weinberg, a Nobel laureate at the University of Texas in Austin, decried the fact that science was increasingly having to compete with other worthy causes, like health care and education, for money. The solution, he said, was to raise taxes.
Frank Wilczek, a Nobel laureate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, described himself as ''less gloomy'' than Dr. Weinberg, but nonetheless concerned that, with the end of the cold war and bad economic times, the traditional political bases of government support for basic research had dwindled, leaving only ''curiosity and desire to participate, even indirectly, in doing something great.'' He added, ''We should be doing that anyway, of course.''
''This is all a great pity, because tremendous scientific opportunities are available,'' Dr. Wilczek said.
The United States gave up its leadership in high-energy particle physics 20 years ago, when Congress canceled the Superconducting Super Collider, a particle accelerator that was under construction in Texas. That move cleared the way for CERN's eventual supremacy.
Could the same thing happen in space? Those fears were aroused two years ago when NASA announced that the James Webb Space Telescope project needed $1.6 billion more and several years to complete. It was canceled by the House Appropriations Committee last summer but later restored. The price of that rescue, however, was to delay NASA's dark energy mission, and to withdraw from a couple of upcoming joint Mars missions.
The travails of the dark energy researchers provide a window into the labyrinthine process by which big projects live or die. Whether you find the story hopeful or depressing depends on who you are.
Dark energy is, according to Dr. Wilczek, ''the most mysterious fact in all of physical science, the fact with the greatest potential to rock the foundations.''
The discovery that the expansion of the cosmos was speeding up came from observing exploding stars known as Type 1A supernovas, luminous and uniform enough to serve as distance markers. Realizing that only a telescope in space could find and measure supernovas distant enough to shed light, so to speak, on the genesis of this behavior, Dr. Perlmutter early on urged the construction of a special space probe.
Two years ago, after a decade of wrangling among astronomers and NASA and the Energy Department, a blue-ribbon panel from the National Academy of Sciences charged with determining astronomical priorities endorsed a version of this idea as the highest-priority space science mission for the coming decade. The billion-dollar mission, called Wfirst, for Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope, would search for exoplanets as well as measure the effects of dark energy on the history and evolution of the universe. The academy's deliberations were ambushed, however, by the subsequent announcement of the Webb telescope's problems, which have pushed the Webb launch all the way to 2018.
Lia LaPiana, a program executive at NASA, said that, from 2013 to 2018, there is ''zero money'' in the president's budget for the mission.
As a down payment on an eventual mission, NASA suggested spending about $200 million for a 20 percent stake in Euclid, the European Space Agency's mission. The academy rejected that idea, saying that Euclid, which would not measure supernovas at all, did not meet the academy's requirements and could undermine the possibility of an eventual Wfirst project.
Recently, however, a specially convened committee of the academy has given the nod to a $20 million investment in Euclid in the form of equipment, saying it would give American astronomers a seat on the Euclid science team and access to its data.
What changed in the last year? David Spergel, an astrophysicist at Princeton, who was chairman of the committee, said, ''For 20 percent, we were offered a modest participation. For 2 percent, we were offered a modest participation.''
Paul Schechter of M.I.T., co-chairman of a team planning Wfirst, said he had endorsed the deal on the grounds that it would not impinge on the Wfirst project. When the president's budget was released, however, there was $9 million for Euclid and no money for beginning the Wfirst project. The budget is only the first step in this dance, however.
In March, Dr. Schechter told a House appropriations subcommittee that the budget did not represent the ''strong U.S. commitment'' to Wfirst that the academy had recommended. He asked for $8 million to get things going.
The House panel agreed and responded in its report by directing NASA to explain how its plans were consistent with the academy's recommendations. In the meantime, the corresponding Senate appropriations subcommittee has put $10 million for the NASA dark energy mission into its proposed budget report, citing last year's physics Nobelists by name.
There are more dance moves to make in this year's budget and the rest of the decade before the Wfirst mission can become a reality, but Dr. Schechter said he felt encouraged. ''I suspect Wfirst wasn't very high on anyone's list of priorities,'' he said, referring to turmoil at NASA last year.
He added, ''I think that is changing.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 23, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about the challenges facing physics research in the United States described incorrectly an experiment to study particles known as neutrinos. The experiment is an effort to investigate why the universe is made of matter and not antimatter. The point is not to investigate why the universe is ''made of matter and antimatter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EUROPE RISING: A massive magnet is part of a particle detector on the Large Hadron Collider at CERN, near Geneva. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Steps Forward, Steps Back: Some of the big American science projects that have been canceled or delayed by budget constraints and political pressures. (D4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN)(D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); HIGGS BOSON (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (74%); BUDGETS (73%); SPACECRAFT (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN ORGANIZATION FOR NUCLEAR RESEARCH (CERN) (59%); EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL R TURNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



827 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Google to House New College Temporarily

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
Updated 4:56 p.m. The executives of Google are putting their interests in New York City ahead of their old school ties.
On Monday, Larry Page, the chief executive of Google, announced that the company would donate space so Cornell University can have a temporary home for the applied sciences school it plans to build in the city. While the campus is under construction on Roosevelt Island, students and faculty of the new Cornell school will occupy space in Google's large building in the Chelsea section of Manhattan.
The donation comes despite a connection between Google's co-founders, Mr. Page and Sergey Brin, and Stanford University, which had vied with Cornell for the Roosevelt Island space. Mr. Page and Mr. Brin started the company while they were graduate students at Stanford; they even made a video pitch to support Stanford's bid in the competition that the city set up. 
But Stanford dropped out of the running shortly before city officials chose Cornell to build on the public property on the south end of the island, with the aid of $100 million of investment by the city. Stanford officials expressed hard feelings about how the city conducted the competition, but Google executives said they were happy to help Cornell to solve the shortage of qualified workers for technology companies in New York.
''We feel it is so central to the future of our society that it's extremely important that we train an increasing number of talented people in computer science,'' said Alfred Spector, a vice president for engineering at Google. ''New York is our second-largest engineering lab. We have felt there is a strong base of talent in the metropolitan region. That has made this a desirable place to be, and we want to make sure that continues.''
Google will let Cornell use 22,000 square feet of space on an upper floor of the building on Eighth Avenue that the company bought in 2010, said Jordan Newman, a company spokesman. The school will have the option to expand into an additional 36,000 square feet over three years, Mr. Newman said. Cornell will be responsible for most of the costs of operating there and has to be out in five and a half years; the school expects to start holding classes in the first phase of its new campus in the fall 2017.
In its bid for the city land, Cornell said it would start holding classes in the city this fall. The university's president, Dr. David J. Skorton, said in an interview that the school would meet that promise by having students and teachers travel down from the school's main campus in Ithaca for seminars and workshops. By the fall 2013, the first students enrolled in the new school of applied science will take classes in the Google building, he said.
Charles J. Feeney, the Cornell alumnus who pledged $350 million toward his alma mater's new campus, sat a few rows from the stage during the announcement in Google's building. Along with Mr. Page and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, he was one of three self-made billionaires in the auditorium. Mr. Spector said Google considered the rent-free lease to be a gift to Cornell with a value of as much as $12 million. But Dr. Skorton said the university would not treat it as a philanthropic donation and so had not placed a value on it.
Still, Dr. Skorton said he was ''very grateful'' to the company. ''It's obviously an enormously generous accommodation,'' he said.
City officials said that Google's hospitality did not come at their urging and that no public funds would be used.
''We didn't twist any arms or beg anybody,'' said Robert K. Steel, the deputy mayor for economic development.
Mr. Page nonetheless paid tribute to Mr. Bloomberg, applauding his ''healthy disregard for the impossible.'' The mayor responded by saying: ''When we envisioned creating such a school in our city and created the competition for it, we always expected the school to have close ties to the private sector. Today Google is certainly getting in on the ground floor.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. David J. Skorton, the president of Cornell, announcing that Google will provide space to an applied sciences school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (94%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (90%); SERGEY BRIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



828 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Masters of Attack Ads Take Subtle Shot at Obama

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The ad is the work of two of the most fearsome players in Republican politics: Larry McCarthy, the producer behind the infamous Willie Horton commercial in 1988, and Crossroads GPS, the political battle squad founded by Karl Rove.
When it makes its debut Wednesday in 10 swing states as the centerpiece of a $25 million campaign, it is expected to become one of the most heavily broadcast political commercials of this phase of the general election.
Yet what Mr. McCarthy and Crossroads have produced is not the kind of searing denunciation of President Obama that their track records would suggest. More soft-pedal than Swift Boat, the 60-second advertisement, complete with special effects, is a deeply researched, delicately worded story of a struggling family; its relatively low-key tone is all the more striking, coming at a point in the campaign when each side is accusing the other of excessive negativity.
Behind the story of the ad's creation rests one of the greatest challenges for Republicans in this election: how to develop a powerful line of attack against a president who remains well liked even by people who are considering voting against him. 
The concept for the newest advertisement and even some of the lines in the script were culled directly from focus groups of undecided and sometimes torn voters that were held over nearly a year. As Crossroads strategists would learn after 18 different focus groups and field tests, from Missouri to Colorado to Ohio to Florida, the harshest anti-Obama jabs backfire with many Americans.
Middle-of-the-road voters who said they thought the country was on the wrong track were unmoved when they heard arguments that the president lacks integrity. And they did not buy assertions that he is a rabid partisan with a radical liberal agenda that is wrecking America.
''They are not interested in being told they made a horrible mistake,'' said Steven J. Law, president of Crossroads GPS and the affiliated ''super PAC,'' American Crossroads. ''The disappointment they're now experiencing has to be handled carefully.''
In interviews with voters, Crossroads strategists picked up on some common sentiments that they concluded could provide a clear rationale for voters to deny Mr. Obama a second term.
Some said they felt that the president was an eloquent communicator, but that his actions had failed to live up to his words. They said they thought the country's budget problems had gotten out of hand, yet the government kept spending recklessly -- like someone with maxed-out credit cards. And they reported being worried that their children would not have the same opportunities to get ahead as they had.
All these thoughts made their way into Mr. McCarthy's script. But one exchange in particular, at a focus group in St. Louis in October, gave Mr. McCarthy and Mr. Law the idea for the ad, which they named, innocuously enough, ''Basketball.''
A woman described how her 32-year-old son, burdened by student loans and unable to make ends meet, had moved back home. ''That particular group had several women who basically told the same story,'' Mr. McCarthy said.
The script, which he started writing that day in October, features a composite character from the focus groups. ''Kind of like President Obama's girlfriends,'' he noted dryly, referring to Mr. Obama's acknowledgment that a girlfriend he referred to in his book ''Dreams From My Father'' was a composite of several women he knew.
The ad opens with a woman talking about her family's financial woes. ''I always loved watching the kids play basketball,'' the actress says, her voice heavy with worry as she glances out at her backyard. ''I still do, even though things have changed.''
Her face quickly morphs into an old woman's. Her skin is wrinkled, her hair gray. She explains how her adult children have moved back into the house because they are unable to find jobs. And she is not sure she can afford to retire now.
''I supported President Obama because he spoke so beautifully,'' she says. ''He promised change. But things changed for the worse.''
Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the Obama campaign, dismissed the commercial's premise. ''However many millions Mitt Romney's special interest allies spend won't change the facts,'' he said, noting that the economy has strengthened considerably since 2008.
In previous presidential campaigns, Republicans have relished mocking their Democratic opponents. They made commercials with video of Michael S. Dukakis riding in a tank wearing an oversize helmet, leaving viewers with images that many thought made him look silly and unpresidential.
They used pictures of Senator John Kerry windsurfing to create ads that ridiculed him as a flip-flopper. Bill Clinton, with his admission of drug use, accusations of draft dodging and extramarital affairs, was easily lampooned.
But Republicans acknowledge that they have always faced a more complicated target in Mr. Obama, whose candidacy four years ago struck a deep emotional chord with many Americans.
That is why the Crossroads ad features a heavy repetition of the word ''change.'' Many participants in the focus groups cited the Obama mantra of hope and change as a reason they supported him in 2008, but they said they now felt let down.
''Criticizing President Obama is a challenging proposition in terms of ads because a lot of your swing voters this year voted for him in 2008,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ''They genuinely liked him, they thought he had the right message, they thought he was different.''
''Basketball'' is similar in its message and tone to a commercial Mr. McCarthy produced for Crossroads last year called ''Wake Up.'' That ad opens with a shot of a clock showing the time as 3:01 a.m., a nod to the famous ''3 a.m.'' ad that Hillary Rodham Clinton used in 2008 to try to portray Mr. Obama as unprepared for the presidency.
The actress in ''Wake Up'' says, ''Sometimes it's hard to sleep,'' as she climbs out of bed to check on her sleeping daughter. ''Lately, I worry a lot about my kids. What's their future going to be like?'' The ad tested higher with voters than any Crossroads had ever produced.
Using actors is not a common tactic for political attack ads, which often rely on stern-sounding announcers to recite a series of damning facts or on testimonials from aggrieved citizens, like a recent series from the Obama campaign that questions Mr. Romney's history as a private equity executive.
But in this case, Crossroads felt that a scripted story would soften a tough message about complicated issues.
''The challenge is obviously that the issues we want to talk about -- health care, the economy, debt -- it's not like kittens and adoption. They're tough issues to communicate in a warm way,'' Mr. Law said.
A fictional family also allowed for more creative flexibility in creating a rebuttal to the president's message that although things may not be great, the country is moving in the right direction.
The alternative point of view the Republican strategists are trying to sell to voters is a hard truth wrapped in soft packaging: even though the headlines might be looking good now, the American dream is still in tatters.
''There are some who believe he's made things worse; then there's a larger group of people who are upset at him because he hasn't fixed these problems,'' Mr. Law said. ''And the larger point of these ads is that the agenda he's pursued has not made things better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven J. Law of Crossroads GPS said a new ad was aimed at voters who may like President Obama but are disillusioned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The 60-second commercial, which evolved from focus group interviews, features a woman ruing that the poor economy has forced her adult children to move back in. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM CROSSROADS GPS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); FOCUS GROUPS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LIBERALISM (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (54%) MISSOURI, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



829 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Reinstating An Old Rule Is Not a Cure For Crisis

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Call it the Glass-Steagall myth.
Since JPMorgan Chase announced its surprise $2 billion, and growing, trading loss there have been renewed calls from economists, pundits and politicians to reinstate the Glass-Steagall Act, a Depression-era law that prevented commercial banks from participating in investment banking activities.
Elizabeth Warren, the Democratic candidate for Senate in Massachusetts, sent an e-mail to thousands of her constituents, pressing to bring back the law, which she said, ''stopped investment banks from gambling away people's life savings for decades - until Wall Street successfully lobbied to have it repealed in 1999.'' 
A meme around Glass-Steagall has been created, repeated so often that it has almost become conventional wisdom: the repeal of Glass-Steagall led to the financial crisis of 2008. And, the thinking goes, has become almost religious for some people, that if the law were reinstated, we would avoid the next crisis.
The facts - basic facts - just aren't that convenient. While the repeal of Glass-Steagall has seemingly become the sine qua non of the financial crisis, it is pure historical revisionism.
Before we go any further on this topic - which is likely to incite heated debate - let me stipulate at the outset that this column is not meant to argue against reinstating Glass-Steagall or adopting the Volcker Rule (sometimes known as Glass-Steagall lite.)
Bringing back something akin to Glass-Steagall would clearly help limit risk in the system. And that's a very good and worthy goal. Letting banks sell securities and insurance products and services allowed them to grow too big too fast, and fueled a culture that put profit and pay over prudence.
But here's the key: Glass-Steagall wouldn't have prevented the last financial crisis. And it probably wouldn't have prevented JPMorgan's $2 billion-plus trading loss. The loss occurred on the commercial side of the bank, not at the investment bank. But parts of the bet were made with synthetic credit derivatives - something that George Bailey in ''It's a Wonderful Life'' would never have touched.
When I called Ms. Warren and pressed her about whether she thought the financial crisis or JPMorgan's losses could have been avoided if Glass-Steagall were in place, she conceded: ''The answer is probably 'No' to both.''
Still, she said that the repeal of the law ''had a powerful impact to let the big get bigger.'' She also contended that its repeal, brought about by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, ''mattered enormously. It is like holding up a sign to regulators to back up.''
Let's look at the facts of the financial crisis in the context of Glass-Steagall.
The first domino to nearly topple over in the financial crisis was Bear Stearns, an investment bank that had nothing to do with commercial banking. Glass-Steagall would have been irrelevant. Then came Lehman Brothers; it too was an investment bank with no commercial banking business and therefore wouldn't have been covered by Glass-Steagall either. After them, Merrill Lynch was next - and yep, it too was an investment bank that had nothing to do with Glass-Steagall.
Next in line was the American International Group, an insurance company that was also unrelated to Glass-Steagall. While we're at it, we should probably throw in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which similarly, had nothing to do with Glass-Steagall.
Now let's look at the major commercial banks that ran into trouble.
Let's first take Bank of America. Its biggest problems stemmed not from investment banking or trading - though there were some losses - but from its acquisition of Countrywide Financial, the subprime lender, which made a lot of bad loans - completely permissible under Glass-Steagall.
What about Wachovia? Its near-collapse was largely a function of its acquisition of Golden West, a mortgage lender that saddled it with billions of dollars in bad loans.
Citigroup's problems are probably the closest call when it comes to whether Glass-Steagall would have avoided its problems. It gorged both on underwriting bad loads and buying up collateralized debt obligations.
In that case, Glass-Steagall would have done two things: it would have prevented the trading losses and it also would have kept Citigroup from getting so big, which was one of the reasons it required a bailout.
But Citi's troubles didn't come until after Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, A.I.G., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were fallen or teetering - when all hell was breaking loose.
Why do we have financial crises? Why do banks lose money?
If history is any guide, it hasn't often been the result of speculative bets. It has been the result of banks making loans to individuals and businesses who can't pay them back.
Yes, standards became so lax that buyers didn't have to put money down or prove their income, and financial firms developed dangerous instruments that packaged and sliced up loans, then magnified their bets with more borrowed money.
But it often starts with banks making basic loans. Making loans ''is one of the riskiest businesses banks engage in and has been a major contributing factor to most financial crises in the world over the last 50 years,'' Richard Spillenkothen, former director of the division of banking supervision and regulation at the Federal Reserve, wrote in a letter to Politico's Morning Money on Monday. He said that if Glass-Steagall still existed, it ''alone would not have prevented the financial crisis.''
Still, Mr. Spillenkothen said: ''If banks had been limited to 'plain vanilla' lending, notwithstanding its admitted riskiness, the financial crisis may well have been less severe or more easily managed and contained.''
In my conversation with Ms. Warren she told me that one of the reasons she's been pushing reinstating Glass-Steagall - even if it wouldn't have prevented the financial crisis - is that it is an easy issue for the public to understand and ''you can build public attention behind.''
She added that she considers Glass-Steagall more of a symbol of what needs to happen to regulations than the specifics related to the act itself.
So would Glass-Steagall make things slightly better? Sure.
But the next time someone says that it is the ultimate solution, think again.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Warren, Democratic candidate for Senate in Massachusetts, supports reinstatement of the Glass-Steagall Act. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); US GRAMM LEACH BLILEY ACT (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LOBBYING (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



830 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Europe Weighs Antitrust Case Against Google

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and DAVID STREITFELD; James Kanter reported from Brussels, and David Streitfeld from San Francisco. Edward Wyatt contributed reporting from Washington and Nick Wingfield from Seattle.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Google may have abused its dominance in Internet search by promoting its own businesses at the expense of competitors, the European Commission said Monday. It warned the company to propose changes in ''a matter of weeks'' to its method of answering user queries, or possibly face an antitrust lawsuit.
Search is the crucial tool that sends consumers to new restaurants and hotels, cheap airplane flights, and local services as varied as plumbers or baby sitters. In issuing the ultimatum, European regulators sent their strongest signal yet that they believe Google, which has long said its search results are neutral, tips the scales in its favor. 
''The Europeans are saying to Google: 'Time's up. Cave in or we'll sue,' '' said Keith N. Hylton, an antitrust expert at the Boston University School of Law.
A Google spokesman said the company disagreed with the commission's conclusions and said ''innovation online has never been greater.''
If Google decides to fight, the case could fuel a fledging Federal Trade Commission investigation. United States regulators have been working closely with the European officials, speaking by phone at least weekly.
Google is the dominant search engine in the United States and holds even greater sway in Europe, accounting for four of every five searches on the Continent.
Joaquin Almunia, the European antitrust chief, said at a news conference here that regulators had identified ''four concerns where Google business practices may be considered as abuses of dominance.''
He said Google might have unfairly exploited its market position by displaying links to its own services, like Google maps or images, when it answers a query, giving preference to them over those of competitors. He also said Google included material in its own search results that was copied from competitors' Web sites.
''In this way they are appropriating the benefits of investments of competitors,'' Mr. Almunia said, explaining that restaurant guides and travel sites were particularly affected.
The other two areas of concern involve how Google conducts its advertising business, including how it delivers search ads on partner sites.
Thomas Vinje, a lawyer for FairSearch, a coalition of 17 companies including Microsoft, said the group was ''pleased that the commission has identified some serious concerns with Google's anticompetitive behavior.''
If Google does make concessions in Europe, computer users could notice a greater variety of Web services displayed on their computer screens besides those offered by Google, said Nicolas Petit, a law professor at the University of Liege in Belgium.
Mr. Petit drew a comparison with an earlier European requirement for Microsoft to include a raft of competing Web browsers as part of its operating system as a way of trying to curb Microsoft from promoting its own software products.
Antitrust fines in Europe can reach up to 10 percent of a company's annual global revenue. Google's revenue was nearly $38 billion last year.
Mr. Almunia's office also can demand far-reaching changes to the way companies run their businesses.
Antitrust experts expressed surprise at the rare public offer by the commission, which reflects the delicate balance regulators are trying to strike as they seek to fix problems in the fast-changing technology marketplace before proposed remedies lose their relevance.
Mr. Almunia's move, some said, was a new phase in aggressive European antitrust enforcement.
There may be a need to act swiftly, said Paul Lugard, the former head of antitrust at Philips, the giant Dutch electronics company, and now an assistant professor at the Tilburg School of Economics and Management in the Netherlands.
But he said he was concerned that ''this form of highly unusual public encouragement in the full glare of the media puts even more pressure on companies like Google to settle early rather than contest charges that they really do think are groundless.''
Neither Google nor Mr. Almunia described what kinds of offers or changes in search methods could lead to a settlement in the case. Instead, each side appeared to hold out the prospect that it was prepared to walk away from negotiations.
Both sides are likely to want to avoid the decade-long case the commission undertook against Microsoft, which ended up paying $2 billion in penalties and fines.
''The Europeans are moving with the kind of speed you need to get these issues resolved,'' said David Balto, a former policy director at the Federal Trade Commission. ''In five years, everyone might be searching through Facebook.''
Mr. Almunia declined to comment in any detail on potential concerns about Google's Android operating system, which the company has used to move into the leading position among mobile phone operating systems.
''It's an ongoing investigation,'' Mr. Almunia said, referring to Android.
Ominously for Google, those comments suggest that the company could face yet more pressure from the European authorities to change its practices in another facet of its business.
Sources close to the United States investigation have said regulators may be focusing on whether Google has strong-armed phone manufacturers using the Android system to offer only Google search on their phones.
The F.T.C. last month hired a litigator to examine the evidence against Google and, if deemed sufficient, file charges against the company.
Long before that decision is made, weeks of hard discussions will take place behind closed doors in Brussels involving Mr. Almunia and his investigators, and lawyers, engineers and executives from Google.
Al Verney, a Google spokesman, said competition on the Web had increased sharply in the two years since the commission began examining the company's practices. That highlights how ''the competitive pressures Google faces are tremendous,'' he said.
While Google has faced new rivals, most notably Microsoft, which has plowed billions of dollars into its Bing search engine, the company's share of the market has been surprisingly durable in recent years. In the United States during March, Google accounted for 66.4 percent of searches, up slightly from 65.7 percent during the same month in 2011, and 65.1 percent for that month in 2010, according to comScore.
In Europe, Google accounted for 79.3 percent of searches in March, compared with 79.8 percent the same month a year earlier, comScore estimates. In most cases, any gains in market share that Google rivals make tend to come at the expense of other competitors in the search market, not Google.
Some experts said a settlement might be an attractive prospect for Mr. Almunia, partly because of the complexities of the way search engines operate.
''Google updates its algorithms so frequently that any proposal from the agency that regulates search algorithms probably would be ineffective and unworkable,'' said Mr. Hylton of Boston University.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joaquin Almunia, above, the European antitrust chief, said regulators had ''four concerns where Google business practices may be considered as abuses of dominance.'' Eric E. Schmidt, left, is the executive chairman of Google, the dominant search engine in the United States and Europe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMON DAWSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 JOCHEN LUEBKE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); SEARCH ENGINES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); INTERNET BROWSERS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); BELGIUM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



831 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: NATO Agrees on Afghan Security Transition in 2013

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MATTHEW ROSENBERG; John H. Cushman Jr. contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- President Obama and the leaders of America's NATO allies on Monday agreed to end their guiding role in the decade-long war in Afghanistan next summer, saying it is time for the Afghan people to take responsibility for their own security and for the United States-led international troops to go home.
Declaring that ''our forces broke the Taliban's momentum,'' Mr. Obama used the summit meeting of NATO leaders here in his adopted hometown to begin an exit from a conflict he embraced during his first campaign for president as America's good war.
''We're now unified behind a plan to responsibly wind down the war in Afghanistan,'' Mr. Obama said during a news conference after the meeting. He called the decision a ''major step'' toward the end of the war. 
But Mr. Obama acknowledged that ''real challenges'' remained in dealing with the problems across the border in Pakistan, and that the conference had not resolved the impasse over reopening supply lines or the other tensions about the fight against insurgents operating from safe havens there.
''We think that Pakistan has to be part of the solution in Afghanistan,'' he said. ''Neither country is going to have the kind of security, stability and prosperity that it needs unless they can resolve some of these outstanding issues.''
Pakistan closed supply lines to Afghanistan after an American airstrike in November that killed 24 Pakistani solders. Mr. Obama has refused to apologize for the strike, as Pakistan has demanded in negotiations with the Americans, and he pointedly exchanged only a few words with the country's president, Asif Ali Zardari, during the two-day summit meeting -- ''very brief, as we were walking into the summit,'' he said. The two men also stood and spoke briefly with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, before all three joined the other leaders for a group photograph.
The plans to withdraw from Afghanistan are ''irreversible,'' Mr. Obama and the world leaders said in their communique, a deliberate word choice that underscored the political reality in America and in Europe. After 10 years of war and with the global economy reeling, the nations of the West no longer want to pay, either in treasure or in lives, the costs of their efforts in a place that for centuries has resisted foreign attempts to tame it.
''The Taliban is still a robust enemy, and the gains are still fragile,'' Mr. Obama conceded.
''But think about it. We've been there now 10 years,'' he said. ''Ten years in a country that's very different, that's a strain, not only on our folks but also on that country, which at a point is going to be very sensitive about its own sovereignty.''
Mr. Obama and his fellow leaders said they were not abandoning Afghanistan. ''Afghanistan will not stand alone,'' they declared in their formal statement. ''We affirm our close partnership will continue beyond the end of the transition period.''
That period begins now. Afghan national security forces will soon be in the lead role keeping the peace for around 75 percent of the population, NATO and Afghan officials said. But significantly, Afghan forces are not in the lead in many heavily contested areas in the south and the east of the country, where Taliban and Pakistan-based insurgents continue to engage NATO troops in day-by-day battles for control.
By next summer, the Afghan forces will have to assume those lead roles even in the heavily contested areas.
How that will come to pass remains to be seen. American military officials, as recently as Sunday, said they fully expected that American troops would continue fighting after next summer. In fact, the American presence in Afghanistan will continue even after 2014. The strategic partnership agreement between the United States and Afghanistan calls for a residual troop presence after 2014 to act in an advisory role.
In Afghanistan, the Taliban released their own statement on the NATO conference. The Taliban commended President Francois Hollande of France for saying he would bring troops home early, adding that ''the mujahedeen of the Islamic emirate will keep proceeding with their ongoing jihad until it attains its goal.''
For Mr. Obama, the NATO agreement is a turning point in an evolving position on how to manage America's longest war. Mr. Obama staked his first campaign for president in part on his opposition to the war in Iraq; the war in Afghanistan, by contrast, was the one he had said needed American troops and attention. But Mr. Obama forever tied his own legacy to Afghanistan as Americans and his NATO allies were suffering from combat fatigue.
NATO says it will cost about $4.1 billion a year to finance the Afghan forces. Officials at the summit meeting were looking for ways to come up with the money; it is expected that the United States and other donor countries will finance the training and support.
While officials at the summit meeting sought to highlight the progress made in the past two years by Afghan forces, especially the army, many conceded privately that the shift still represented a significant gamble on Afghanistan's future stability. It is far from certain that the Afghans can hold areas that coalition troops have wrested from the Taliban in recent years, even with close support from Western allies.
The Afghan Army has become a more effective fighting force and less of a threat to its own people -- there are far fewer reports these days of soldiers getting high on patrol, for instance. But the force remains ''a work in progress,'' one American official said, and it lacks almost all the support functions needed to fight the war.
The ranks of the police, meanwhile, are filled with drug users, thieves and ''shakedown artists,'' said the official, who asked not to be identified because he works with the Afghans. If the hand-over strategy is going to work, ''it's going to be on'' the Afghan Army, which is going to need a lot of hands-on American support well past the end of the NATO combat mission in 2014, the official said.
American field commanders say they are already pushing Afghan forces to the forefront. Their reasoning: Better to have the Afghans make mistakes while American forces are still thick on the ground rather than a year from now, when there may not be enough backup for the Afghans to recover from battlefield stumbles.
Maj. Gen. James L. Huggins of the Army, the top coalition commander in southern Afghanistan, said in an interview that he was telling his Afghan counterparts: ''If you will step forward now, we'll help back you up. You may learn what you don't know and stumble somewhere, but it won't be a catastrophic failure, because we have your back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and the NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, were seen on a screen Monday during the last day of the two-day conference in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN (59%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



832 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Memo: Boehner's Pursuit Of 'Grand Bargain' Comes With Risks

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
Speaker John A. Boehner has a risky habit he just can't kick - and it is not smoking.
It is his determination to use the federal debt limit as leverage to win the ''grand bargain'' he covets on taxes, spending and social programs. The famously chain-smoking Ohio Republican may ultimately cut his big deal and emerge a hero. But there are potentially serious repercussions for him and his party as well as President Obama and the Democrats.
Mr. Boehner took fellow lawmakers and the White House by surprise last week when he indicated a willingness to plunge back into the fight that devoured much of 2011. It didn't end well for either side when the government bond rating was downgraded, the image of Washington took a beating and a subsequent special Congressional debt committee flopped. The result requires a $500 billion cut in Pentagon spending that Republicans are now trying to wriggle out of. 
On Sunday, Mr. Boehner said he was ''not going to apologize for leading'' by restarting the debate on the debt limit.
''Why do we want to wait and rush this through at the end of the year after the election?'' he said during an interview on ABC's ''This Week.''
So why would Mr. Boehner want to go down that road again? There are plenty of reasons, starting with the idea offered by his aides that Mr. Boehner genuinely sees the idea of simplifying the tax code, cutting spending and increasing the sustainability of Social Security and Medicare as the right and necessary thing to do.
''When the speaker says the debt is hurting our economy and threatening our future, it's not spin,'' said Kevin Smith, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner. ''He believes it to his core, and feels a very personal sense of responsibility to press Washington to deal with the problem while he has the chance.''
There are other factors at work. Mr. Boehner needs to get members of his unruly rank and file thinking about the idea that they might have to compromise in the months ahead on taxes and spending. Given the history of this House Republican majority, that might take time.
Republicans also believe they win when talking about debt and borrowing, reinforcing their narrative that Democrats have irresponsibly maxed out the nation's credit card. Then there is the fact that Mr. Boehner's biggest asset in the upcoming negotiations is the need to raise the debt limit. And he must get it on the table because the game has changed since 2011.
Because of the failure of the special debt committee, the Pentagon is facing steep reductions over the next decade under what is known as a sequester. Even though many of them backed the budget agreement, Republicans and some Democrats argue that those cuts are too deep and could not only weaken the military but might lead to significant job losses around the county if contractors are forced to lay off workers.
But the dirty little not-so secret on Capitol Hill is that many Democrats prefer those cuts -- tough though they might be to swallow -- compared with the alternative: offsetting another increase in the debt limit with even more cuts in domestic programs without some new tax dollars.
As a result, there is no way Democrats are going to sign off on any proposal that would raise the debt limit, extend Bush-era tax cuts and jettison the sequester without finding new revenue, preferably through higher taxes on the most affluent Americans.
''The bottom line is, to avoid the sequester they are going to have come up with a balanced approach,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Senate Democrat.
Finding that balance might be tough for Mr. Boehner and run him afoul of the many House Republicans who are dead set against any increase in revenue. It is similar to last year when the speaker was willing to entertain up to $800 billion in new revenue in exchange for lower tax rates and significant changes in Social Security and Medicare. But whether he could ever sell that idea to his fellow House Republicans was a very open question before the entire deal collapsed in a breakdown with the White House. Pushing again for new revenue could mean trouble for Mr. Boehner.
In his remarks last week, Mr. Boehner sought to take the offensive, saying that Democrats lacked the nerve to do what is right. And he promised that the House would vote before the election to extend the Bush-era tax cuts in an effort to put the Democrats on the defensive.
Democrats think they have changed the calculus on taxes and can defend their refusal to extend the lower tax rates across the board by arguing that millionaires should pay more. But they will face a barrage of Republican attacks that they are supporting a tax increase and that could make Democrats in tough races nervous. Representative Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader, on Sunday sought to neutralize the issue by challenging the speaker to bring up the middle-class tax cuts for a separate vote, a decision Mr. Boehner is highly unlikely to make since it would provide Democrats cover.
As he tries to tie the debt limit, tax rates and sequester into the foundation of a new grand bargain, the speaker faces a problem with the calendar. The sequester and the tax cuts need to be dealt with by Jan. 1; the timetable for the debt ceiling increase is uncertain and the Treasury Department can be expected to stretch out the need for an increase as long as possible.
Mr. Boehner's allies rate his record in negotiations with the White House to be pretty good, having struck agreements on spending cuts far deeper than what Democrats would have previously accepted, even though it came at a political cost.
Now he is again in pursuit of a grand bargain with the debt limit as his bludgeon. The test will be whether he can reach consensus with Democrats armed with the Pentagon cuts while not suffering political setbacks in November or losing the support of his own party.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker John A. Boehner wants concessions on taxes, spending and social programs in exchange for agreeing to lift the debt limit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BONDS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



833 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: How Change Happens

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Forty years ago, corporate America was bloated, sluggish and losing ground to competitors in Japan and beyond. But then something astonishing happened. Financiers, private equity firms and bare-knuckled corporate executives initiated a series of reforms and transformations.
The process was brutal and involved streamlining and layoffs. But, at the end of it, American businesses emerged leaner, quicker and more efficient.
Now we are apparently going to have a presidential election about whether this reform movement was a good thing. Last week, the Obama administration unveiled an attack ad against Mitt Romney's old private equity firm, Bain Capital, portraying it as a vampire that sucks the blood from American companies. Then Vice President Joseph Biden Jr. gave one of those cable-TV-type speeches, lambasting Wall Street and saying we had to be a country that makes things again. 
The Obama attack ad accused Bain Capital of looting a steel company called GST in the 1990s and then throwing its workers out on the street. The ad itself barely survived a minute of scrutiny. As Kimberly Strassel noted in The Wall Street Journal, the depiction is wildly misleading.
The company was in terminal decline before Bain entered the picture, seeing its work force fall from 4,500 to less than 1,000. It faced closure when Romney and Bain, for some reason, saw hope for it in 1993. Bain acquired it, induced banks to loan it money and poured $100 million into modernization, according to Strassel. Bain held onto the company for eight years, hardly the pattern of a looter. Finally, after all the effort, the company, like many other old-line steel companies, filed for bankruptcy protection in 2001, two years after Romney had left Bain.
This is the story of a failed rescue, not vampire capitalism.
But the larger argument is about private equity itself, and about the changes private equity firms and other financiers have instigated across society. Over the past several decades, these firms have scoured America looking for underperforming companies. Then they acquire them and try to force them to get better.
As Reihan Salam noted in a fair-minded review of the literature in National Review, in any industry there is an astonishing difference in the productivity levels of leading companies and the lagging companies. Private equity firms like Bain acquire bad companies and often replace management, compel executives to own more stock in their own company and reform company operations.
Most of the time they succeed. Research from around the world clearly confirms that companies that have been acquired by private equity firms are more productive than comparable firms.
This process involves a great deal of churn and creative destruction. It does not, on net, lead to fewer jobs. A giant study by economists from the University of Chicago, Harvard, the University of Maryland and the Census Bureau found that when private equity firms acquire a company, jobs are lost in old operations. Jobs are created in new, promising operations. The overall effect on employment is modest.
Nor is it true that private equity firms generally pile up companies with debt, loot them and then send them to the graveyard. This does happen occasionally (the tax code encourages debt), but banks would not be lending money to private equity-owned companies, decade after decade, if those companies weren't generally prosperous and creditworthy.
Private equity firms are not lovable, but they forced a renaissance that revived American capitalism. The large questions today are: Will the U.S. continue this process of rigorous creative destruction? More immediately, will the nation take the transformation of the private sector and extend it to the public sector?
While American companies operate in radically different ways than they did 40 years ago, the sheltered, government-dominated sectors of the economy -- especially education, health care and the welfare state -- operate in astonishingly similar ways.
The implicit argument of the Republican campaign is that Mitt Romney has the experience to extend this transformation into government.
The Obama campaign seems to be drifting willy-nilly into the opposite camp, arguing that the pressures brought to bear by the capital markets over the past few decades were not a good thing, offering no comparably sized agenda to reform the public sector.
In a country that desperately wants change, I have no idea why a party would not compete to be the party of change and transformation. For a candidate like Obama, who successfully ran an unconventional campaign that embodied and promised change, I have no idea why he would want to run a campaign this time that regurgitates the exact same ads and repeats the exact same arguments as so many Democratic campaigns from the ancient past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); CENSUS (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (75%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%) ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



834 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Facing Criticism, Obama Defends Ads Attacking Romney's Record at Bain Capital

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Helene Cooper reported from Chicago, and Michael D. Shear from Washington.

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Responding to criticism from some Democratic supporters, President Obama said Monday that attacks on Mitt Romney's experience at Bain Capital were fair game and that Mr. Romney's years at the helm of a private equity firm were worthy of serious debate.
''This is not a distraction,'' Mr. Obama said about Mr. Romney's record at Bain during a news conference at the end of the NATO summit meeting here. ''This is what this campaign is going to be about.'' 
Mr. Obama's comments were his first explicit endorsement of his campaign's aggressive strategy attacking Bain Capital. The Obama campaign's full-throated assault, through ads, statements and Web videos, is now in its second week and portrays Mr. Romney in highly personal and unflattering ways. A video released on Monday highlights an office supply company in Indiana whose workers were fired when it was bought by a Bain company.
''You can tell by the way he acts, the way he talks,'' one former employee says of Mr. Romney in the new ad. ''He doesn't care anything about the middle-class or the lower-class people.''
Mr. Obama denied that such attacks were unfair or unjustified, saying Mr. Romney's ''main calling card'' for becoming president was his business experience. He said Mr. Romney's years of buying and selling companies for profit gave him little understanding of the president's role.
''If your main argument for how to grow the economy is, 'I knew how to make a lot of money for investors,' then you are missing what this job is about,'' Mr. Obama said, putting an emphasis on the words ''this job.'' ''It doesn't mean you weren't good at private equity. But that's not what my job is as president. My job is to take into account everybody, not just some.''
The focus on the Bain attacks has added to the clash between the two campaigns and their allies about the increasingly negative tone of the 2012 presidential campaign, especially as Mr. Obama seeks to define Mr. Romney in the eyes of voters.
Targeting Bain carries risks for the president, not least with wealthy Wall Street executives whose largess in 2008 helped finance his campaign. Some of those supporters have already soured on the president after his efforts to tighten regulation of their industry.
Mr. Obama's comments came a day after Cory A. Booker, the Democratic mayor of Newark, called the Obama campaign's focus on Bain Capital a ''nauseating'' part of negative campaigning on both sides.
Mr. Booker later made an about-face on Twitter and in a video, saying Mr. Romney's record at Bain was fair game.
On Monday, Republicans were quick to point out how uneasy some in Mr. Obama's own party are about the criticism of private equity investors, and they started an ''I Stand with Cory'' petition to try to embarrass the president.
''President Obama confirmed today that he will continue his attacks on the free enterprise system, which Mayor Booker and other leading Democrats have spoken out against,'' Mr. Romney said in a statement. ''What this election is about is the 23 million Americans who are still struggling to find work and the millions who have lost their homes and have fallen into poverty.''
Bain Capital was also moved to defend itself, issuing a statement on Monday saying that ''revenues grew in 80 percent of the more than 350 companies in which we have invested.''
Last week, Mr. Romney said the attacks on his record at Bain were intended to suggest that ''I'm not a good person, or a good guy.'' Mr. Obama's campaign dismissed that criticism, saying its ads and statements were efforts to describe how the values Mr. Romney pursued at Bain would color his actions as president.
Mr. Obama said he views private equity firms like Bain Capital as a ''healthy part of the free market'' that are designed to ''maximize profits.'' He said that among them there are ''folks who do good work.''
But he made it clear that he believes private equity firms put profits above all else, which, he said, is too limited a view at a time of economic struggle.
''Their priority is to maximize profits, and that's not always going to be good for businesses or communities or workers,'' Mr. Obama said.
Referring to his campaign's videos that feature workers laid off by Bain companies, Mr. Obama said, ''I've got to think about those workers in that video just as much as I'm thinking about folks who have been much more successful.''
Mr. Romney's campaign has also described Mr. Obama in harsh and personal ways. Mr. Romney repeatedly says the president ''doesn't get it,'' painting Mr. Obama as a slow-learning neophyte in the Oval Office. His campaign often accuses the president of personally breaking promises he made to the American people.
And the Republican ''super PACs'' have also targeted Mr. Obama personally. The New York Times reported last week on a plan by one of them to link Mr. Obama to his controversial former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. It was later dropped.
Both campaigns have made it clear that they intend to focus as much on the candidates themselves as the policies they support. Mr. Booker, speaking on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, said the attacks were crowding out more serious conversations about the economy and other issues.
''My concern is we are about to go into a significant political campaign that will affect the destiny of our nation,'' Mr. Booker said in his video clarification. ''I am, indeed, upset. I am, indeed, frustrated. But I believe the American public, working together, we can begin to more and more denounce this type of campaigning.''
Online Correction: May 21, 2012, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article contained a picture caption that misstated the day on which Mr. Booker issued a video clarifying his remarks about the Obama campaign's focus on Bain Capital. It was Sunday, not Monday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark issued a video Sunday clarifying his remarks about the Obama campaign's focus on Bain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOOKER TEAM FOR NEWARK 2014) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); MAYORS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (67%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (53%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2012



835 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Motorcyclist Death Rates Appear to Have Plateaued

BYLINE: TANYA MOHN


HIGHLIGHT: A 16 percent drop in motorcyclist fatalities in 2009 is beginning to look like an aberration, noted the authors of a study for the Governors Highway Safety Association. 

 BODY:
A notable decrease in motorcyclist deaths that began in 2009 has not sustained itself, according to a new study released Tuesday by the Governors Highway Safety Association.
The report, based on analysis of preliminary data for the first nine months of 2011 from the 50 states and Washington, D.C., found that motorcyclist fatalities decreased in 23 states from their levels in 2010, but 26 states and Washington reported increases. Fatalities in Louisiana were unchanged.
Motorcyclist fatalities remain a stubborn area of highway safety efforts. The lack of progress was particularly notable because earlier this month the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration projected that total motor vehicle fatalities declined 1.7 percent in 2011, reaching the lowest level since record-keeping began in 1949.
"The big message is we still have a problem with motorcycle fatalities," said James Hedlund of Highway Safety North, a consulting firm that prepared the report for the association. "I had hoped that the decrease in motorcycle fatalities two years ago was the beginning of a turnaround and the decline would continue, but it hasn't."
From 1996 to 2008, during a period in which ridership more than doubled, motorcycle fatalities rose nearly at the same pace. In 2009, however, there was a 16 percent drop in motorcycle deaths. The decline followed 11 straight years of steady increases, Dr. Hedlund noted. In 2010, fatalities decreased in the first half of the year, giving researchers hope that a sustained reversal was in effect, but increased in the second half. Over all, the death toll increased slightly in 2010 when compared with fatalities in 2009. The number of motorcyclist fatalities is projected to remain about 4,500 in 2011, the same as in 2010, the report noted.
Dr. Hedlund, who previously was the associate administrator for traffic safety programs at the N.H.T.S.A., said it was the third year such analyses were completed.
The strengthening economy and high gas prices are thought to have contributed to the uptick through the first nine months of 2011. In a strengthened economy, sales of motorcycles increase. High gas prices may also encourage motorcycle adoption, and the association noted that motorcycle travel might consequently become more widespread, which would typically lead to a corresponding increase in fatalities.
The study's authors also attributed the stubbornness of the death rate with the repeal of universal helmet laws. Despite being an effective tool to reduce motorcyclist deaths, laws in only 19 states and Washington require riders to wear helmets, down from 26 states in 1997. In 1975, all but three states had universal helmet laws, but by 1978, half of those states had repealed them, Dr. Hedlund said. Earlier this year, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan signed a bill to repeal the state's universal helmet law. Similar legislation has been introduced in five other states, the report noted. Louisiana reinstated its universal helmet law in 2004, but since then no state has enacted a requirement.
"Every time a state repeals its helmet laws, fatalities have gone up," Dr. Hedlund said.
In addition to increased use of helmets, other strategies cited by the association to be effective in reducing the death toll included better enforcement as well as strengthened rider training and public awareness campaigns addressing issues like alcohol impairment and speeding.
The report noted that 29 percent of fatally injured riders in 2010 had a blood-alcohol concentration at or above the legal limit, and 35 percent of motorcycle riders involved in fatal crashes were speeding. Dr. Hedlund said that all motorists shared responsibility for improved training and education, as passenger car drivers often violate a motorcyclist's right of way, resulting in a fatal crash for the rider.
"All drivers need to be responsible," he said.

        
Fatalities Among Teenage Drivers Rose in First Half of 2011, Study Finds
        
Traffic Deaths Drop to Lowest in 60 Years
        
Chrysler Recalls 68,000 Jeep Wranglers for Potential Fire Hazard
        
Wheelies: The Exit Velocity Edition
        
Wheelies: The Fraternite Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (91%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); MOTORCYCLES (89%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); VEHICLE HELMET REGULATION (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); LEGISLATION (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%) Governors Highway Safety Association; motorcycle helmet; n.h.t.s.a.; Automobiles; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Traffic Accidents and Safety; Governors Highway Safety Assn; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Motorcycles; safety

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (91%) Governors Highway Safety Assn; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (65%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



836 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Let's All Devalue Against Each Other

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: We don't need no arithmetic. 

 BODY:
Jeremy Siegel echoes a lot of what some of us have been saying for years about the infeasibility of internal devaluation, but then argues that the answer is devaluation of the euro as a whole. Um, against whom?
I mean, it's not as if America or Japan are towers of economic strength, easily able to provide the demand Europe lacks. That leaves emerging markets. And while I and others have been pushing for years for an end to Chinese currency manipulation, China is at this point (a) not looking very strong itself (b) just not that big in the world economy -- not yet.
More generally, Europe as a whole, like America, remains a relatively closed economy. Its salvation must be mainly internal.
Now, if devaluation is a code word to mean raising the inflation target, fine.
The last time I got to hear the late James Tobin, he gave a talk in which he joked that as far as he could tell, all the world's major currencies needed to devalue against each other. This is sort of one of those times -- and what that actually tells you is that we need fiscal and monetary stimulus.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



837 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Sensible Nonsense

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Unemployment is high almost everywhere. 

 BODY:
OK, I see that Raghuram Rajan is now saying that "sensible" Keynesians see no easy solution to our depression, because
A general increase in government spending may be too blunt - greater demand in New York is not going to help families eat out in Las Vegas (and hence create more restaurant jobs there). 
Do people making arguments like this take even a moment to look at the actual data? 
Reading Rajan here, you'd imagine that New York was close to full employment, that the unemployment problem was mainly in places like Nevada that had the worst housing bubbles. And it's true that Nevada, with an unemployment rate of 11.7 percent, leads the nation. But New York has an unemployment rate of 8.5 percent! Not exactly full employment.
More broadly, Rajan seems to believe that we are a nation with pockets of high unemployment, but not a broad national problem, so that you somehow need surgical policies to address the issue (which in practice is an excuse to do nothing.) But here's the distribution of US population among states with different levels of unemployment:
More than half the US population lives in states with more than 8 percent unemployment. Almost three-quarters lives in states with more than 7 percent unemployment. Less than a tenth of the population lives in states with less than 6 percent unemployment.
We are not a nation with pockets of high unemployment. We are a vast expanse of very high unemployment with a few pockets of not-so-high unemployment -- exactly the kind of scene where broad-based expansionary policy is exactly the right thing to do.
Again, I find it astonishing that anti-expansion arguments are advanced without even a bit of data in support, when a few minutes of looking at that data would make the foolishness of the arguments obvious. 
Why, it's almost as if people are looking for reasons not to do anything, and aren't interested in the facts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



838 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: VTB of Russia Sees Opportunities Amid Europe's Woes

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: Alexey Yakovitsky, chief executive of the Russian investment bank VTB Capital, said in an interview that troubles in the euro zone economy were "undermining the European banking system" and creating opportunities for banks like his. 

 BODY:
LONDON -- The Russian investment bank VTB Capital says it expects to gain business as its larger European rivals are forced to scale back because of stricter capital rules and regulations.
Alexey Yakovitsky, VTB Capital's chief executive, said in an interview on Tuesday that troubles in the euro zone economy were "undermining the European banking system" and creating opportunities for banks like VTB. His company is a unit of the VTB Group, Russia's second-largest bank after Sberbank.
"All those triple-A rated banks are no longer there," Mr. Yakovitsky said. "What's happening in banking creates opportunities for others. They can develop where global banks can't because of capital requirements or regulatory reasons."
In an interview on the sidelines of VTB's "Russia Calling" conference here, Mr. Yakovitsky said VTB Capital was not interested in buying assets that larger European rivals were selling and that the bank preferred to grow without acquisitions. But he said that restrictions on European rivals could make VTB Capital "more competitive in terms of pricing."
 In April, VTB formally opened its first office in the United States -- in New York -- to cater to American investors. The office has about 20 employees, mainly debt and equity salespeople.
Mr. Yakovitsky said the bank planned to add more employees in New York and was considering expanding its product line. Demand from Russian clients to list shares on United States stock exchanges has been limited though, and Mr. Yakovitsky said he did not expect that to change.
"Early on during the last decade, the focus shifted to London" for Russian companies, and "London will remain an important market," he said, adding, "It's the regulation, it's the costs and it's the convenience."

        
Russia Sells Stake in State-Owned Lender VTB
        
Russia to Sell 15% of Rosneft to Help Balance Budget

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%) Alexey Yakovitsky; VTB Capital; VTB Group; Banking and Financial Institutions; Russia; Financial Services; I.P.O./Offerings; Investment Banking

COMPANY: SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (57%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (52%)

TICKER: SBER (RTS) (57%); SBER (LSE) (57%); ROSN (RTS) (52%); ROSN (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



839 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Medical Costs Contribute to Credit Card Debt

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Medical costs are a big contributor to credit card debt, a survey of low- and moderate-income households finds. 

 BODY:
Medical bills are a leading contributor to credit card debt, a new survey finds.
Nearly half of low- and moderate-income households carry debt from out-of-pocket medical expenses on their credit cards, the survey found. The average amount of medical debt on credit cards was $1,678.
Demos, a nonpartisan research organization, contracted with Knowledge Networks to conduct the survey in February and March to gauge the impact of the recession as well as of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009. The survey, conducted online among participants selected by random sampling, included 997 adults who had carried credit card balances for at least three months. The margin of sampling error was four percentage points.
The survey found that average credit card debt had declined to $7,145, down from $9,887 in 2008. But the same proportion of households - 40 percent - used credit cards to pay for basic expenses, like mortgage or rent payments, groceries, utilities and insurance, because they did not have enough money to cover those costs.
Americans do seem to be benefiting from provisions of the CARD Act, like those requiring better disclosure of late fees and the impact of interest rates, the survey found. A third of households, for instance, were paying down their balances faster, and just 28 percent of households reported paying late fees, down from 50 percent in 2008.
The survey indicated that the CARD Act was working, but it also revealed the limits of such legislation in addressing consumer debt, said Amy Traub, a senior policy analyst at Demos. "The reliance on credit cards shows that we need some deeper kind of policy to address the wage issues keeping people from making ends meet, and the medical issue, in particular," she said.
More than three-fourths of indebted households had out-of-pocket medical costs in the last three years, and 62 percent of them said the spending contributed to their current credit card debt.
Households that put medical bills on a credit card accumulated a median of $800 in credit card debt, meaning half the households had more and half had less. And half of those with medical debt said they had postponed filling a prescription or skipped a doctor visit or a test to reduce their medical expenses.
Have you paid your credit card balances down faster as a result of the CARD Act notices? Do you use your credit card for medical costs?

        
New Estimate Sees Rise in Medical Costs in Retirement
        
Rebates for Some Who Buy Own Health Insurance
        
Help in Deciding if Medical Tests Are Needed
        
Many Americans Struggling to Pay Medical Bills
        
Cost of Long-Term Care Insurance Keeps Rising

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); PERSONAL DEBT (95%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (67%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%) Health Insurance

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



840 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Study: Smooth Traffic May Indicate a Sour Economy

BYLINE: JOHN R. QUAIN


HIGHLIGHT: Inrix, a traffic-data analysis service, said congestion fell 30 percent in 2011 nationwide compared with their levels in 2010, an indication of economic sluggishness. 

 BODY:
As much as motorists dislike traffic, a crowded road can mean deliveries are up, fuel prices are down and vacationers are spending money. Based on this conventional thinking, a decline in congestion may be indicative of an economy in shaky health.
In its fifth annual Traffic Scorecard, Inrix, a traffic-data analysis service, reported a 30 percent drop in traffic congestion in the United States in 2011 over levels in 2010. The company gauges traffic conditions from municipal data and live traffic information from fleet vehicles, as well as navigation devices and users of traffic applications. According to its report, 70 of the country's 100 most populated cities experienced an overall decrease in traffic congestion last year compared with 2010.
"I think we're seeing it here in the traffic numbers, the stop-and-go economy," Bryan Mistele, president and chief executive of Inrix, said in a telephone interview ahead of the report. Mr. Mistele noted the results bore an eerie similarity to the company's 2008 Traffic Scorecard, which contained all the earmarks of an economic slowdown.
Reinforcing the argument that financial woes were responsible for the decline in traffic, the report noted that road construction projects were down nationally last year, making for less congestion. In Minneapolis, for example, projects dropped from 283 in 2010 to 258 last year, reflecting a $400 million reduction in state spending, according to the report's authors. Consequently, traffic delays last year in Minneapolis dropped more than in any other American city.
The Traffic Scorecard may be of little comfort to motorists who regularly stare at idle bumpers. Commuters on some of the most heavily trafficked roads in the United States experienced idling delays of up to 60 hours for the year just during evening commutes. By this measure, the Los Angeles and New York areas, respectively, claimed the two worst stretches of road: Interstate 405 northbound from the Imperial Highway interchange to the Getty Center Drive exit, and the Long Island Expressway eastbound from the Maurice Avenue exit to the Mineola Avenue exit.
Congestion rankings were based on readings from vehicles that indicated traffic was moving at half or less of the typically observed speed for a particular stretch of road. That measure of speed was used rather than the posted speed limit because when traffic flows smoothly, actual speeds may exceed posted speeds. Based on those numbers, Mr. Mistele estimated $2 billion of fuel was burned by vehicles idling in traffic last year.
According to Inrix, the top five cities for severe congestion last year were:
1. Honolulu, Hi. (No. 1 in 2010)
2. Los Angeles (No. 2 in 2010)
3. San Francisco (No. 6 in 2010)
4. New York (No. 3 in 2010)
5. Bridgeport, Conn. (No. 5 in 2010)
One new entry in the top 10 was Austin, Tex., which made a move from No. 14 to No. 8, a possible indicator of job growth.
For the first time, the company also included 12 European countries in the scorecard. There were similar declines in overall congestion, the authors noted, although Italy retained the dubious honor of having the worst traffic of the 12 countries. On average, American drivers experience one-third of the congestion that their Italian counterparts do, according to the report.

        
Wheelies: The Not-So-Easy Rider Edition
        
Cuomo Applauds Intensified Campaign to Ticket Distracted Drivers
        
Outright Ban on Cellphone Use in Car: A Recommendation Too Far?
        
In Japan, 8 Ferraris Reportedly Involved in Sunday Smash-Up
        
Around New York, Safety Warning Haikus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); CITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (66%) economic crisis; Inrix; traffic; Automobiles; Roads and Traffic; Environment; Industry News

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



841 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: The Growing Fed

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: With the greater responsibilities conferred by Congress comes a larger budget - at least in the case of the Federal Reserve, which sets its own. 

 BODY:
One part of the economy that's growing rapidly is the Federal Reserve.
These are boom times for the central bank, which persuaded Congress to expand its responsibilities significantly in the wake of the financial crisis.
And with greater responsibility comes a larger budget. If not in every case, then at least in the case of the Fed, which as it happens sets its own budget.
The Annual Report: Budget Review published Tuesday shows that the Fed plans to spend $4.7 billion this year, a 35 percent increase over 2006 after adjusting for inflation. Moreover, the Fed's fee-based income from check processing and other services has been in steep decline, with the result that the net cost of operating the Fed actually has increased by 105 percent.
The bill, in other words, has more than doubled since the financial crisis. And according to the Fed, the crisis is the cause. The central bank says that more effective regulation requires more regulators and better tools.

(It's important to note that these increased expenses are more than offset by the vast increase in revenues from the Fed's investment portfolio, which allowed it to transfer $75.4 billion in profits to the Treasury Department last year. The expansion, however, still reduced the amount of those transfers, and it is likely to endure long after the Fed's portfolio returns to more normal size.)
The Board of Governors, the headquarters office in Washington, projects that by the end of this year it will employ more than 2,400 people, an increase of roughly 25 percent since the start of the financial crisis. Last year, it leased new space in an office building in downtown Washington to accommodate some of the new arrivals.
Consider it another way in which the Fed is stimulating the economy.

        
What Rule Should the Fed Follow?
        
Inflation and Joblessness: The Tipping Point
        
Bernanke on What the Fed Can Do
        
Fed Outlook: No Big Steps, No Retreat
        
Parsing a Fed Official's Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%) Federal Reserve; Federal Reserve System

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



842 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Europe Hits Back at Ratings Agencies

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: European governments and banks are on the warpath against top international ratings agencies blamed for exacerbating their financial problems. But is it a case of 'shoot the messenger'? 

 BODY:
LONDON - Hammered by a slew of downgrades by the international ratings agencies, European governments and banks are moving to further tighten the rules on how these institutions rate their creditworthiness.
Officials of the 27-nation European Union on Monday agreed on proposed legislation that would, among other things, make it easier to sue the agencies if it turns out they got it wrong.
Bankers meanwhile have met to discuss limiting access to privileged insider information up to now provided to the "big three" - Fitch, Moody's, and Standard & Poor's - to help them make their assessments.
The U.S.-based agencies have been under fire in Europe for exacerbating the euro zone crisis by downgrading the sovereign debt of a range of states and making it even more expensive for them to attempt to pay it off. 
In January, Rendezvous reported on a growing backlash in Europe after Standard & Poor's slashed the sovereign debt rating of nine countries, including France.
Banks in turn have accused the agencies of making a bad situation worse with mass downgrades of the fragile banking sector. 
After Moody's last week downgraded 26 Italian banks, the country's bankers condemned the move as an "assault on Italy" that should simply be ignored.
"Once more rating agencies turn out to be a destabilizing factor for financial markets with their partial and contradictory statements," the Italian Banking Association said.
But are the latest moves against the "big three" a case of seeking to curb the overweening power of unaccountable private institutions or are the Europeans just out to shoot the messenger?
It seems to be a bit of both. Proposed reforms are geared to making investors less reliant on the judgments of the "big three" at the same time as ending their near monopoly in the sector.
The European proposals unveiled this week would amend existing rules "in order to reduce investors' over-reliance on external credit ratings and increase transparency and competition in the sector," the policy-setting European Council said.
Bankers meeting in Frankfurt last week also pushed for greater competition, hence the proposal to deny any special favors to the "big three" in terms of privileged information. The aim would be to create a level playing field for other agencies to enter the market.
The New York-based Dealbreaker blog said the initiative would just result in making the ratings agencies stupider and potentially redundant.
"My mental model of Europe generally involves policymakers blaming any downgrades on flaws in the ratings agencies rather than in the underlying credit," wrote Dealbreaker's editor, Matt Levine. "So I guess it's not much of a stretch that bankers are doing the same when threatened with downgrades."

        
Downgraded Europe Goes Hat in Hand
        
Europe Seeks to Curb Its Drinking Problem
        
Signs Europe Bending on Airline Carbon Fee
        
Europe Cracks Down on Cybercrime
        
Who Should Be on Trial for the Global Financial Crisis? Send Us Your List.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); SOVEREIGN RISK (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%) banking; european union; fitch; moody's; ratings agencies; standard and poor's; Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Fitch Ratings; Moody's Corporation; Standard & Poor's Corp; Europe; Moody's Corporation|MCO|NYSE; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%) Fitch Ratings; Moody's Corporation; Standard & Poor's Corp

TICKER: Moody's Corporation; MCO; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



843 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Big Risks for Uninsured Farmers

BYLINE: DYLAN WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: A scientists' group recommends that crop insurance programs supported by the Department of Agriculture streamline procedures for organic and local farms that grow many varieties of produce. 

 BODY:
The farm bill, that cyclical flashpoint, is up for reauthorization in Congress this year, and reforms are needed to help small and organic farms obtain crop insurance, the Union of Concerned Scientists argues in a new report.
Crop insurance policies, which are regulated and subsidized by the Department of Agriculture, provide coverage almost exclusively on a per-crop basis, which suits industrial farms growing single crops on vast acreage. But for farmers who grow a diverse array of crops, as many small and organic farms do, enrollment can be an onerous and complicated task requiring them to apply for a dozen or more separate policies.
"The insurance burden that's put on these types of farmers is completely out of balance," said Jeffrey O'Hara, an agricultural economist for the scientists' group and the report's author. As a result, few small farms take out insurance plans, leaving them vulnerable to risks like extreme weather and hard-pressed to secure credit and loans.
Such administrative burdens are in tension with grass-roots and federal policy initiatives designed to support small-farm economies, the report notes. Environmental groups are also putting more of an emphasis on buying local, both for the sake of freshness and to reduce the fossil fuel emissions associated with transporting food from faraway places. "This needs to be a priority if we want to expand the local foods farm system," Dr. O'Hara said.

While insurance policies and payouts for global commodities like corn and soybeans rely on market price indexes and decades of historical yield data, the report says, insurance for non-commodity fruits and vegetables - or "specialty crops," in legal terms - requires farmers to define reimbursement thresholds with historical revenue records for each crop.
"Insurance is just not scaled for the little people," said Robert Maddox, who operates Sun One Organic Farm in Bethlehem, Conn.
Organic farms, considered too unorthodox and risky for crop insurance until passage of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act in 2000, face additional disadvantages, the report says.
Organic insurance plans almost universally impose a 5 percent surcharge to account for greater losses, but there is no evidence that organic crops necessarily pose a higher actuarial risk, Dr. O'Hara contends. Risks can vary widely by geography and even compare favorably with those of nonorganic methods, he said.
Compensation for losses is also based on conventional rather than organic wholesale or market prices, with the recent exception of organic cotton, corn, soybeans and processing tomatoes.
"The price points offered simply don't reward the grower," said Patrick Horan, a manager at Waldingfield Farmin Washington, Conn. who sells produce at the Wooster Square Farmers' Market in New Haven.
Waldingfield, one of the largest organic tomato producers in Connecticut, can sell wholesale tomatoes for more than $1.50 a pound, but insurance remuneration based on conventional prices would land far below $1 a pound, he said.
"I'd be surprised if anyone here had insurance," Mr. Horan said of the other farmers at the market. 
Without insurance, small farms depend on community-supported agriculture, or C.S.A.'s, in which local consumers purchase percentage shares of the seasonal harvest, however bountiful. This essentially spreads the risks of farming across a group of investors.
But because C.S.A. revenue is not readily divisible by crop, this practice discourages participating farms from taking out real insurance policies, which require per-crop revenue reporting.
The United States Department of Agriculture is not idle on these concerns and has taken steps like removing the organic surcharge for particular crops and regions - citrus in Florida, for example.
It has also sought to increase enrollment in a 13-year-old program known as adjusted gross revenue, which is designed to insure entire farms rather than individual crops. But Dr. O'Hara said that the limited geographic availability of A.G.R. remains problematic.
The 2007 U.S.D.A. census counted 2.2 million small farms, but fewer than 1,000 A.G.R. policies were purchased last year. Almost 80 percent of those policies were taken out in three states: Washington, Oregon and California.
An independent study of A.G.R. commissioned by the U.S.D.A. and mentioned in the agency's most recent Specialty Crop Report to Congress described participation as "complex and paperwork-intensive."
Growing recognition of these issues led the House Committee on Agriculture to list crop insurance as one of its top three priorities for this year's farm bill. In both the House and the Senate, efforts are underway to hammer out improvements to whole-farm insurance through the Local Food, Farms and Jobs Act.
At a congressional hearing last Wednesday, Keith Collins, a former chief economist on risk management for the U.S.D.A., said that despite the challenges facing specialty crop insurance, the existing process is working. "But it's a slow process," he said.
Another hearing on the subject was held on Thursday. Economists, agricultural groups and insurance representatives aired their concerns at the two sessions, but no organic nor small farms were represented.

        
On Our Radar: A Coal-Free Chicago?
        
It's Organic, but Is It Natural?
        
From a Farm Stand, New and Old Insights
        
The Sustainable Prince
        
A Crop Sprouts Without Soil or Sunshine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (95%); CROP INSURANCE (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FACTORY FARMS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EMISSIONS (71%); PRODUCT PRICING (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); WEATHER (67%) crop insurance; farm bill; organic farming; small farms; U.S.D.A.; Agriculture and Farming; Farm Bill (US); Insurance; Local Food; Organic Foods and Products; United States Politics and Government; Vegetables; Agriculture Department; House of Representatives; Senate; Union of Concerned Scientists; Agriculture; Business; Living; Politics and Policy; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (93%) Agriculture Department; House of Representatives; Senate; Union of Concerned Scientists

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



844 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: After New York Radio Deal, Early Signs of Ratings Gains

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO


HIGHLIGHT: In April, two venerable New York City R&#038;B stations - WRKS and WBLS - merged, and ESPN moved to the FM band. It's still early, but the moves have brought improved ratings. 

 BODY:
Last month, the New York radio market was rocked by a three-way deal that merged two venerable R&B stations, WRKS and WBLS, and brought ESPN to the FM band. It may be too early to get a solid reading on ratings, but preliminary data suggests that the newly changed stations are enjoying better numbers.
Arbitron, the standard radio-ratings service, releases its most thorough audience figures monthly, but its weekly updates give a rough indication of listening habits. In its latest weekly report, covering April 26 to May 2 - which includes only three days under the new formats - WBLS had about 350,000 more listeners than it had on average during the month of April and rose in the rankings.
The rating for WBLS, which absorbed its competitor, WRKS, known as Kiss FM, was a 5.0 share for the first week of May; it had a rank of No. 4 in the market. Those results were up from a 3.5 share and rank of No. 7. Among the industry's most prized audience segment, adults 25 to 54, WBLS was ranked No. 3.
Before the merger, the two stations had been suffering in the ratings, which some executives and critics of the industry attributed, at least partly, to changes in how Arbitron measures audiences. The company now has many of its sample listeners carry the Portable People Meter, or P.P.M., a beeper-size device that records listening habits, but critics say that method undercounts minority listeners.
ESPN, which is owned by Disney, has been broadcasting at 1050 AM, and is taking over 98.7 FM from WRKS; for now, both frequencies are simulcasting under the call sign WEPN. In their first few days, the combined stations had a 3.1 share among men ages 25 to 54. According to Inside Radio, a trade publication, that is well below the 5.1 share held by the market's dominant sports station, CBS Radio's WFAN-AM; still, the combined WEPN rating is better than any other AM station in that demographic.
Arbitron's full monthly ratings for May are expected to be released on June 11.

        
Arbitron Agrees to Improve How It Counts Minority Radio Listeners
        
Columbia University Radio Station Is Fined $10,000
        
Clear Channel Buys WFNX, Venerable Boston Rock Station
        
Cumulus, a Growing Radio Power, Sells 55 Scattered Stations
        
How 'New Girl' on Fox Lost Its Ratings Mojo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); RANKINGS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (70%) Radio; ratings; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Arbitron Inc; ESPN; WBLS-FM; WRKS-FM; Arbitron Inc|ARB|NYSE

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Arbitron Inc; ESPN; WBLS-FM; WRKS-FM

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (85%) Arbitron Inc; ARB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (85%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (85%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (85%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



845 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Approach to Antitrust Could Cause Friction

BYLINE: JAMES KANTER


HIGHLIGHT: Important procedural differences remain in the way the Europeans and Americans conduct their antitrust investigations of Google that could create friction as the cases develop. One of the most striking differences is that the European Commission effectively serves as a prosecutor, judge and jury in antitrust investigations. 

 BODY:
BRUSSELS - Europe delivered Google an ultimatum on Monday: Make concessions in four areas of your business, or face formal charges for breaking our antitrust laws.
Last month the United States Federal Trade Commission stepped up its antitrust investigation of the Internet search giant by hiring a prominent litigator, a strong signal the F.T.C. is prepared to take Google to court.
Even so, important procedural differences remain in the way the Europeans and Americans conduct their investigations that could create friction as the cases develop.
One of the most striking differences is that the European Commission, the European Union executive agency based in Brussels, effectively serves as a prosecutor, judge and jury in antitrust investigations.
The commission can directly order changes to the ways companies run their businesses, including requiring major divestitures, and setting fines of more than $1 billion without filing a lawsuit and without the prior authority of a judge.
If Google fails to reach a settlement and disagrees with any eventual decision by Competition Commissioner Joaqun Almunia, the company could bring an appeal at the General Court, the second highest tribunal in the Union that is based in Luxembourg.
But Google would only be able to do so once it was found guilty.
Google also could make a final appeal to the European Court of Justice, the highest tribunal that shares the same building as the General Court.
In the United States, the F.T.C. and the Antitrust Division of the Justice Department both must win antitrust cases in court before applying any punishments or ordering divestitures.
The different systems have been a source of diplomatic friction for more than a decade.
American lawmakers and legal experts have repeatedly complained about what they said was a lack of sufficient safeguards respecting due process of law in the inquisitorial European Union system following decisions against prominent American companies like General Electric and Microsoft.
This time around there are some signs that the Europeans and Americans are coordinating more closely on Google - both on timing and substance - than in many previous cases with a transatlantic dimension.
New factors are at work pushing the regulators to collaborate more, including the rise of antitrust agencies in important economies like China and India.
As William E. Kovacic, a former F.T.C. commissioner and a law professor at George Washington University, told me recently, "The Google case is hugely important to the technology industry, and the danger is that if more mature agencies in the West fail to sing from the same hymn sheet, then there's a risk that the younger agencies will feel entitled to regulate in conflicting ways."
Even so, there is no guarantee that the agencies would reach the same conclusions or mete out the same terms.
And if Google does end up facing a stricter ruling in Europe than in the United States, the issue of whether successful companies in the United States get a fair hearing in Brussels is likely to emerge once again.

        
Daily Report: Europe Weighs Antitrust Case Against Google
        
U.S. Antitrust Move Has Google Fighting on Two Fronts
        
Google Acquisition of Motorola Delayed in Europe
        
Daily Report: U.S. Escalates Google Antitrust Case
        
Google Says It Plays Fair

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (97%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); JUDGES (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DUE PROCESS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE COURTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Antitrust; European Commission; Google; Almunia, Joaquin; Antitrust Laws and Competition Issues; Google Inc; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Internet; Policy

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN COURT OF JUSTICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%) European Commission; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (86%) Almunia, Joaquin

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); BELGIUM (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



846 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Accor to Sell Motel 6 to Blackstone for $1.9 Billion

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Accor of France has agreed to sell its budget hotel business in America, including the Motel 6 brand, to the Blackstone Group, as Accor focuses on fast-growing emerging economies and expansion within Europe. 

 BODY:
12:07 p.m. | Updated 
The French hotel operator Accor said on Tuesday that it had agreed to sell its American budget hotel business to the Blackstone Group for $1.9 billion, as part of an effort by Accor to focus its expansion plans on fast-growing emerging economies and within Europe.
Accor's low-cost brands in the United States and Canada include Motel 6 and Studio 6, an extended-stay economy chain, and total more than 1,100 hotels across North America. Accor has been restructuring the faltering American unit, but had previously said it was open to offers for the business.
The company's budget hotel unit in North America reported a 4 percent drop in revenue, to 532 million euros ($680 million). The unit posted an operating profit of 15 million euros in 2011, compared with a loss of 4 million euros the previous year.
Accor, based in Paris, said it planned to continue operating its luxury hotel brands, Sofitel and Novotel, in North America.
Blackstone said it would invest in the North American hotel business as it looks to increase revenue across the United States and Canada. The private equity firm owns a number of other real estate assets, including the hotel group Hilton Worldwide, which it acquired in 2007.
Upon completion of the deal, which is expected by October, Accor said it would take a noncash loss of about 600 million euros and reduce its net debt and fixed-lease commitments by a combined 855 million euros.
"This deal will provide Accor with additional resources to address the tremendous growth potential in the Asia Pacific region, in Latin America and in Europe," Accor's chief executive, Denis Hennequin, said in a statement.
Shares in Accor, which rose by almost 8 percent in early morning trading in Paris, had increased 5.8 percent by late afternoon. The company's shares have fallen 21 percent in the last 12 months.
JPMorgan Chase and the law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett advised Blackstone on the deal, while Citigroup and the law firm Proskauer Rose advised Accor.

        
Michaels Stores C.E.O. Connected to Wal-Mart Bribery Case
        
Goldman Executives Reappear on Real Estate Scene

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (87%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); LAWYERS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); BRIBERY (50%) Accor; Blackstone; Motel 6; Mergers & Acquisitions; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (91%); ACCOR SA (90%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (83%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (74%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (64%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (55%)

TICKER: AC (PAR) (90%); BX (NYSE) (74%); JPM (NYSE) (64%); JPM (LSE) (64%); 8634 (TSE) (64%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (90%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (74%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (74%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (90%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



847 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2192 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Reinstating an Old Rule Is Not a Cure for Crisis | Since JPMorgan Chase announced its surprise $2 billion, and growing, trading loss there have been renewed calls from economists, pundits and politicians to reinstate the Glass-Steagall Act, a Depression-era law that prevented commercial banks from participating in investment banking activities, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
A meme around Glass-Steagall has been created, repeated so often that it has almost become conventional wisdom: the repeal of Glass-Steagall led to the financial crisis of 2008. And, the thinking goes (the notion has become almost religious for some people), if the law were reinstated, we would avoid the next crisis.
The facts - basic facts - are just not that convenient. While the repeal of Glass-Steagall has seemingly become the sine qua non of the financial crisis, it is pure historical revisionism.
Glass-Steagall would not have prevented the most recent financial crisis. And it probably would not have prevented JPMorgan's $2 billion-plus trading loss. The loss occurred on the commercial side of the bank, not at the investment bank. But parts of the bet were made with synthetic credit derivatives - something that George Bailey in "It's a Wonderful Life" would never have touched. DealBook 
As Facebook's Stock Struggles, Fingers Start Pointing | As shares of Facebook tumbled in their second day of trading, bankers, investors and analysts wondered what had gone wrong with the initial public offering of the social network, the most highly anticipated technology debut in years.
Some fingers are pointing at Morgan Stanley, the lead banker on the I.P.O., while others criticize Nasdaq and even Facebook itself. In the aftermath, critics contend that Facebook's offering price was too high and too many shares were sold to the public, hurting the stock's performance out of the gate.
Facebook's troubles could damp enthusiasm for a spate of companies set to go public in the coming months. It could also spur changes in the I.P.O. process. In particular, big institutional investors like Fidelity and Vanguard may demand greater say on pricing, at the expense of companies and their bankers. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
It's Complicated With Zuckerberg's Property | The timing of the wedding between Mark Zuckerberg and his college sweetheart, Priscilla Chan, just a day after Facebook's public debut clarified his net worth, prompted speculation that it may have had something to do with a prenuptial agreement. In any case, matrimonial law experts say that in California, whatever Mr. Zuckerberg earned before the marriage remains solely his property afterward, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Europe's Worst Nightmare | Landon Thomas Jr. writes in The New York Times: "In a season of nightmare projections for Europe, this one could be the scariest: Greece leaves the euro currency union at the same time Spain's banking system is collapsing." He continues: "The money available to Europe within its main bailout fund, about 780 billion euros, or $997 billion, would not be enough to handle the twin calamities of a Greek euro exit and a Spanish banking implosion." NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Accor to Sell Motel 6 to Blackstone for $1.9 Billion | Accor of France has agreed to sell its budget hotel business in America, including the Motel 6 brand, to the Blackstone Group, as Accor focuses on fast-growing emerging economies and expansion within Europe. DealBook 
KB Financial Bids for a Unit of ING | The KB Financial Group said it had bid for the South Korean life insurance business of ING, which could be worth as much as $7 billion, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Olympus Said to Hesitate Over a Deal | The scandal-plagued camera company Olympus is not planning to announce a strategic investment at a briefing next month, as some foreign shareholders have feared such a deal could dilute their holdings, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the deliberations. REUTERS
AOL Chief Dismisses Talk of a Merger With Yahoo | Tim Armstrong, the chief executive of AOL, told Fox Business that a deal with Yahoo was "probably not in the cards." FOX BUSINESS NETWORK | WALL STREET JOURNAL
Unipol of Italy Moves Toward a Merger | A regulator said Unipol would not be required to make a tender offer for a rival, bringing the Italian insurer a step closer toward a four-way merger with other insurance companies, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Rival Banks Said to Profit on JPMorgan's Losses | The Wall Street Journal, citing unidentified traders and people close to the matter, reports that a group of about a dozen banks, including Goldman Sachs and Bank of America, have earned as much as $1 billion on trades that have sometimes been directly against the chief investment office of JPMorgan Chase. WALL STREET JOURNAL
JPMorgan's Competitors Say Their Trading Strategies Are Different | Bank of America, Citigroup and Wells Fargo said their corporate investment offices did not trade the kind of derivatives that led to JPMorgan Chase's multibillion-dollar loss, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
JPMorgan to Suspend Stock Buybacks | Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, says the bank intends to keep its dividend of 30 cents a quarter unchanged. DealBook 
Wells Fargo to Expand Mutual Fund Business | Michael Niedermeyer, who runs Wells Fargo's $444 billion asset management division, said he planned to double the size of the unit within seven years by expanding abroad as European rivals pulled back, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Dexia Announces Changes to Board | The bailed-out European bank Dexia added a new board member, Karel de Boeck, a former chief executive of Fortis, who is expected to take over as Dexia's chief in the coming months, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
TCW's Bet on Mortgages Begins to Pay Off | The TCW Group's total return bond fund, which has 37 percent of its holdings in mortgage debt that is not backed by the government, gained 5.2 percent through May 18, Bloomberg News reports. It edged out one of its main rivals, the DoubleLine total return bond fund, which is run by a former TCW executive, Jeffrey Gundlach. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Kroll Bond Ratings Looks for an Opening | The small credit ratings company run by Jules Kroll is looking to overtake Standard & Poor's in the market for grading bonds backed by commercial mortgages, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Obama Stands By Criticism of Bain Capital | President Obama explicitly endorsed his campaign's strategy of attacking Mitt Romney's record at Bain Capital, saying, "This is what this campaign is going to be about," The New York Times reports. Mr. Obama's comments came after a prominent ally, Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark, said the campaign's focus on Bain was "nauseating." NEW YORK TIMES
K.K.R. Said to Be Raising a Fund for Asia | The buyout firm is in the process of attracting $2 billion in a capital-raising round for its second fund targeting Asia, and is ultimately seeking as much as $6 billion, according to Bloomberg News, which cites three unidentified people with knowledge of the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Warburg Pincus Invests in Online Classifieds | The private equity firm led a $32 million financing round in Quickr, an Indian classifieds company, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Bridgepoint Said to Plan a Sale of Aenova | The private equity firm Bridgepoint has chosen Morgan Stanley to handle the sale of the German drug maker Aenova, which could bring in more than $510 million, Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the situation. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Conflicting Portraits of Former Goldman Director at Insider Trading Trial | The trial of Rajat K. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, began on Monday. Mr. Gutpa is accused of leaking boardroom secrets about those two companies to a friend and business associate. DealBook 
Credit Suisse and Bank of America Gain Hedge Fund Business in Asia | The Asian prime brokerage units of Credit Suisse and Bank of America gained market share in the last year, as Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley lost clients and assets, according to a survey by AsiaHedge, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Einhorn Calls a Recovery in Housing | David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital told investors in his reinsurance business on Monday that he believed the housing market was improving, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Rubicon Fund Sues Former Traders | Rubicon Fund Management is seeking as much as 105 million ($166 million) from two former traders, who are accused of trying to overthrow the fund's management and soliciting its clients, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
The Facebook Losers | There is plenty of blame to go around for the dismal debut of Facebook, including high-frequency traders, Wall Street, Nasdaq, Morgan Stanley and the company itself, writes Floyd Norris on the Economix blog. DealBook 
BlackRock Said to Buy a Stake in Formula One | The giant asset manager BlackRock was among three investors that bought a $1.6 billion stake in Formula One from CVC Capital, giving the car racing company a valuation of at least $7 billion ahead of its I.P.O., Reuters reports, citing unidentified people. REUTERS
In Hong Kong, the Most Popular I.P.O.'s Perform the Worst | Since the start of 2010, the Hong Kong I.P.O.'s with the most orders from individuals relative to stock available have fallen an average of 54 percent from their offering prices, trailing the broader I.P.O. market, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Private Space Travel, Take 3 | SpaceX, the space exploration company controlled by the entrepreneur Elon Musk, launched a rocket bound for the International Space Station after two earlier attempts to show the viability of private sector space travel, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Moritz Reduces Role at Sequoia | Michael Moritz, a partner at Sequoia Capital, is scaling back his day-to-day responsibilities because of a "rare medical condition," according to a letter he sent to investors on Monday, which was obtained by DealBook. Mr. Moritz, who will become chairman of Sequoia, is shedding some of his "management responsibilities, including regulatory compliance and recruiting," Bloomberg reports. Business Week
Google to Host Cornell's High-Tech Campus | The new applied-sciences school of Cornell University will have a temporary home at Google's offices in New York, while the campus is being built on Roosevelt Island, the City Room blog reports. Google's donation of office space comes even after it supported Stanford University's rival bid to build the campus. NEW YORK TIMES CITY ROOM
At Microsoft, Seeking New Uses for Games | Among the start-ups at Microsoft's 13-week accelerator program is one called Jintronix, which is trying to find ways to use the Kinect gaming platform for medical rehabilitation, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Citing JPMorgan Loss, Regulator Pushes New Oversight | The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is circulating a preliminary proposal to apply new rules not only to banks in the United States, but also to American banks that have foreign units. DealBook 
Dimon Shows Some Love for Volcker Rule | Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, who has been critical of the Volcker Rule, took a more measured stance on the regulation at an industry conference on Monday. DealBook 
With New Firepower, S.E.C. Tracks Bigger Game | After missing the warning signs of the financial crisis and the Ponzi scheme of Bernard L. Madoff, the S.E.C. has adopted several new strategies to restore its credibility. DealBook 
Former Yahoo Executive Pleads Guilty in Insider Trading Case | Robert W. Kwok, who was Yahoo's senior director of business management, and Reema D. Shah, formerly a portfolio manager at a unit of Ameriprise Financial, pleaded guilty to a scheme to trade on inside information, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Insurer Payments to Banks Are Scrutinized | New York State's Department of Financial Services is investigating whether insurance companies effectively bought their dominant positions in the market for insurance for financially troubled homeowners by making improper payments to banks, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Clearinghouses May Be Designated as Systemically Important | On Tuesday, regulators may decide some swaps clearinghouses are in need of greater oversight, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the officials' work. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Google Faces Threat of Antitrust Lawsuit in Europe | The European Commission said on Monday that Google might have abused its dominance by promoting its own businesses in Internet search results over those of competitors, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); MARRIAGE (84%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); FAMILY LAW (60%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%); EUROPE (64%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



848 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Rajaratnam's Assistant Testifies in Gupta Trial

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The former executive assistant for the hedge fund titan Raj Rajaratnam described a call she received from Rajat Gupta on Sept. 23, 2008, about 10 minutes before the market closed. 

 BODY:
8:34 p.m. | Updated 
When Caryn Eisenberg took a job as the executive assistant for the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, she said that she received this very clear instruction: Don't ever bother Mr. Rajaratnam during the first half-hour or the last half-hour of the trading day, except if he got a call from a shortlist of very important people.
That five-person list included Rajat K. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs on trial on charges that he leaked secret information about the bank to Mr. Rajaratnam, who was convicted last year of insider trading.
Among the government's accusations is that Mr. Gupta gave Mr. Rajaratnam advance word of Warren E. Buffett's $5 billion investment in Goldman during the depths of the financial crisis.
 Mr. Gupta's jury trial, in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff, kicked off its second day with the testimony of Ms. Eisenberg, who worked for the Galleon Group, the hedge fund run by Mr. Rajaratnam, in 2008 and 2009. Ms. Eisenberg is now employed by the brokerage firm Cantor Fitzgerald.
The prosecutor Reed Brodsky reviewed with Ms. Eisenberg her two-year tenure at Galleon, where her job as Mr. Rajaratnam's executive assistant, she said, "was to do anything in the office that needed to be done for him and his family." Ms. Eisenberg said that her first week on the job, her predecessor told her a list of important people for whose calls she should interrupt Mr. Rajaratnam.
The list, handwritten by Ms. Eisenberg in a red notebook that was entered into evidence on Tuesday, included five names: Mr. Gupta, Rajiv Goel, Parag Saxena, Stanley F. Druckenmiller and Anil Kumar.
Mr. Goel and Mr. Kumar have both pleaded guilty to providing Mr. Rajaratnam with inside information about publicly traded companies. Each testified against Mr. Rajaratnam at his trial.
Mr. Saxena runs New Silk Route, an India-focused private equity firm that Mr. Rajaratnam and Mr. Gupta helped start.
Perhaps the most surprising name on the list was Mr. Druckenmiller, who was among the world's most successful hedge fund investors. Mr. Druckenmiller, a former top lieutenant to the billionaire investor George Soros, shut down his fund, Duquesne Capital Management, in 2010.
Neither Mr. Saxena nor Mr. Druckenmiller has ever been accused of any wrongdoing.
Mr. Druckenmiller's name came up twice on Tuesday. During Ms. Eisenberg's cross-examination, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta showed the jury a travel itinerary for an overnight trip to the Borgata hotel and casino in Atlantic City for an annual celebration of an exclusive, high-end fantasy football league that Mr. Rajaratnam and several Goldman executives participated in. Also in the league were the billionaire hedge fund managers Mr. Druckenmiller and Paul Tudor Jones II. The league has a total purse of $1 million, with all the proceeds donated to charity.
According to the itinerary, helicopters flew the fantasy football players from Manhattan to Atlantic City, where they were met by limousines and taken to the Borgata for dinner, drinks and a night of gambling.
The exhibit appeared to be part of the defense's strategy to hammer away at the cozy ties between Goldman and Galleon and suggest to the jury that Mr. Rajaratnam could have received inside information about the bank from various other sources beside Mr. Gupta. Though supposedly a football fan, Mr. Gupta was not part of the fantasy league festivities.
He was, though, an important person to Mr. Rajaratnam, which was the government's main theme on Tuesday.
Mr. Brodsky, the prosecutor, focused on a call Mr. Rajaratnam received on Sept. 23, 2008, a few minutes before the market close. Ms. Eisenberg testified that the caller did not identify himself but said it was urgent. Recognizing the voice as one of the "important people" on Mr. Rajaratnam's list, she tracked down her boss, who was not at his desk. (Mr. Brodsky later established through phone records that Mr. Gupta called Mr. Rajaratnam at 3:54 p.m. on that date.)
Ms. Eisenberg said that Mr. Rajaratnam quickly ran back to his office to take the call. Immediately afterward, she testified, Mr. Rajaratnam called the Galleon trader Gary Rosenbach into his office for a closed-door meeting. She said that Mr. Rosenbach went back to his desk, got on the phone, and said "buy Goldman Sachs" a few times just before the market closed.
She also told the jury that she remembered that Mr. Rajaratnam "was smiling more" after this call came in and Mr. Rosenbach had purchased the Goldman stock.
How did Ms. Eisenberg remember these events so precisely, Mr. Brodsky asked?
She said it was because the next day, on Sept. 24, she learned about Mr. Buffett's big investment in Goldman and it made her remember the flurry of Goldman trades the afternoon before. Mr. Brodsky, knowing that the Buffett investment was announced at 5 p.m. on Sept. 23, asked Ms. Eisenberg to explain why she was in the dark about the Goldman news until the following morning.
"I went shopping at Bloomingdale's," she said.

        
Dueling Portrayals of Former Goldman Director at Insider Trading Trial
        
Judge May Permit Wiretaps as Evidence in Insider Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); EVIDENCE (75%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); WITNESSES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); JUDGES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%) Caryn Eisenberg; Galleon Group; Raj Rajaratnam; Rajat Gupta; Rajat K. Gupta; Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj; Insider Trading; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Manhattan (NYC); Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Galleon Investigation; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Galleon Group; Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (94%); STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (79%); GEORGE SOROS (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (53%) Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



849 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Disclosure by Short-Sellers Would Improve Market Clarity

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: Wild gyrations of stocks based on the barest mention by short-sellers revive the debate on whether rules should require disclosures of big short positions. 

 BODY:
Just a few questions during a recent conference call cost the nutritional supplements company Herbalife more than $1 billion in stock market value.
Short-sellers - investors betting a stock will go down - had again shown their power in the market. Despite this influence, the securities laws do not require them to disclose trading or positions when talking about a stock.
Herbalife may be an argument in favor of such a requirement. In that instance, David Einhorn, founder and president of Greenlight Capital, was the inquisitor. Mr. Einhorn is known for questioning the financial condition of Lehman Brothers months before its collapse. Since then, he has also successfully taken aim at Green Mountain Coffee Roasters and the St. Joe Company. He is so prominent that he can send shares spiraling down simply by questioning a company, if investors fear he has discovered something wrong.
Herbalife discovered this on May 1 during what had begun as a routine analyst call about its latest results. Mr. Einhorn emerged on the call and asked a handful of questions, including one about the percentage of the company's sales to consumers who are not distributors, and another asking why Herbalife was no longer disclosing sales broken down by types of distributor.
The questions were fairly innocuous and appeared to be probing the breakdown between distributors and the actual buyers of Herbalife products. Yet soon after Mr. Einhorn's questions, the company's shares tumbled. Investors were assuming he knew something and had placed a big short bet.
Mr. Einhorn, however, did not and has not disclosed whether his firm has any position whatsoever in the stock. Does that make sense when every analyst has to disclose such information?
Such wild gyrations of stocks based on the barest mention by short-sellers revive the debate on rules requiring disclosures of big short positions.
Short-selling provides significant market benefits, including adding liquidity and incentives for price discovery as investors seek to profit from public company problems. The short-seller James Chanos was instrumental in helping point to possible fraud at Enron.
Short-sellers have a right to try to talk a stock down, just as much as other investors can try to talk a stock up. Yet when a public company is under fire, market manipulation is often the cry when there is short-selling. (In short sales, a trader borrows shares to sell, hoping they will fall before buying them back at a profit.)
During the financial crisis, short-sellers came under fierce attack. A ban on shorting was put in place to protect financial stocks.
In the United States, however, the list of companies covered by the ban was so broad that even Ford Motor was on it, not just the core financial firms. A subsequent study has found that the ban reduced market liquidity and, except in the United States with respect to financial stocks, did not work.
Since the financial crisis there has been talk of prohibiting shorting, or regulating the practice further.
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Securities and Exchange Commission to conduct a study on real-time disclosure of shorting. Yet the agency is many months late in publishing this study, and even if it recommends such disclosure, Congress would have to act.
The Dodd-Frank Act also amends the reporting rules to require the S.E.C. to adopt rules requiring the "aggregate amount" of shorting of a security to be disclosed on a monthly basis. The Managed Funds Association, a group representing the hedge fund industry, is claiming this does not require reporting of individual positions. The S.E.C. has yet to respond to this position or even taken steps to adopt this requirement.
The events of the last few weeks show that while prohibiting or regulating shorting itself may not be appropriate, we may need more disclosure.
Indeed, two weeks after the Herbalife call with analysts, more questions emerged about shorts and markets.
At the Ira Sohn conference, a gathering of hedge fund investors, speculation was rife that Herbalife would be a focus of a presentation by Mr. Einhorn. Analysts at Caris & Company even lowered their rating on Herbalife to average from a buy in anticipation that Mr. Einhorn would have something negative to say about it.
It was classic Wall Street - buy or sell on speculation, not facts, since Caris did not base the downgrade on anything other than Mr. Einhorn's presence.
But the surprise was that Mr. Einhorn did not mention Herbalife at all. This set off a small rally in Herbalife stock as it shot up almost 17 percent, pushing the company up $800 million in value.
Mr. Einhorn instead directed his attention on Martin Marietta Materials, among other companies. Mr. Einhorn spoke for about four minutes on Martin Marietta, the construction materials company, stating that it has "lots of problems" and that its chief executive has a "degree in megalomania."
Mr. Einhorn offered no real specifics about these problems or the megalomania, but the comments were enough. Martin Marietta slid 8 percent that day, losing about $300 million in value. Dick's Sporting Goods, another company he mentioned, fell 4 percent.
Once again, the market was trading on speculation, and Mr. Einhorn did not disclose whether he had any position in these companies.
This is a different world than long investing, speculating that stocks will go up. Investors buying stocks are required to disclose when they have a 5 percent or more position in a publicly traded company and funds must disclose any long positions on a quarterly basis to the S.E.C.
But these requirements do not apply to short-sellers. Instead, the market is left to speculate. But even more so in the case of shorting than long positions, disclosure seems to be necessary to prevent manipulation as well as to ensure that the market functions efficiently and can properly assess not only big short bets but cheap talk. Markets, unfortunately, thrive on fear, and such disclosure would tamp this down.
Mr. Einhorn is to some extent a victim of his success. And it may very well be that Mr. Einhorn is right about one or more of those companies and there is something rotten. Mr. Einhorn declined to comment.
I will be the first to say that he should be allowed to short a company, allowing the market to function more efficiently. It may also be that requiring extensive short disclosure may harm companies as investors now see more information about negative bets and are overwhelmed with this information.
But Herbalife has lost almost $3 billion in market value since Mr. Einhorn posed his questions.
The markets would function more smoothly if Mr. Einhorn were required to disclose whether he had a significant short position. This would let people see if he is merely talking or has real money at stake.

        
Martin Marietta Feels the Einhorn Effect
        
Einhorn's Contrarian Bet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); COFFEE (73%); BONDS (73%) David Einhorn; Greenlight Capital; Herbalife; Short Selling; Hedge Funds; Stocks and Bonds; Herbalife Ltd; Herbalife Ltd|HLF|NYSE; Deal Professor; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: ST JOE CO (70%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Herbalife Ltd

TICKER: JOE (NYSE) (70%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GMCR (NASDAQ) (56%) Herbalife Ltd; HLF; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (70%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (70%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (70%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



850 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: 4 Senators Propose Easing Visa Limits for Highly Skilled

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The proposal, introduced by a bipartisan group of senators during an election year, challenges the fixed positions Congressional leaders of both parties hold on the issue of immigration. 

 BODY:
A bipartisan group of four senators proposed on Tuesday easing visa limits for highly skilled immigrants and foreign students, a move that challenges Congressional leaders on their fixed positions on the issue of immigration during an election year.
Two Democrats, Senators Mark Warner of Virginia and Chris Coons of Delaware, and two Republicans, Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Jerry Moran of Kansas, introduced the legislation, which is a break for both parties. Democrats have traditionally held highly skilled worker visas as a bargaining chip for measures on lower-skilled immigrants that are far less politically popular. Many Republicans have opposed any expansion of visas.
But the senators, appearing at a news conference on Tuesday, said the struggling economy necessitated steps that move past those positions. Mr. Rubio is trying to gather support for his version of legislation that would offer legal status to young illegal immigrants brought to the country as children, but he said he would not try to link his version of the Dream Act to the new high-skilled worker proposal. That has to pass on its own merits, he said.
Senators Coons and Warner agreed, even as they reiterated their support for comprehensive immigration legislation.
"We've got to grow jobs," Mr. Warner said.
"We can't let the perfect be the enemy of the good," Mr. Coons said. 
The new legislation would create a new type of visa for as many as 50,000 foreign students graduating from American universities with master's degrees or doctorates in science, technology, engineering or mathematics. Visa recipients would have to show they stayed in science and technology fields for five consecutive years before they could get permanent resident status. The proposal would also create 75,000 new visas for immigrant entrepreneurs in the science and technology field.
The legislation would also eliminate numerical limitations on employment-based visas that use per-country quotas. And it would make tax changes that favor start-ups, including making permanent President Obama's 100 percent exemption on capital gains taxes for investments in small start-ups.
"It's new businesses that create jobs," said Robert Litan, vice president for research and policy at the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, not necessarily small businesses.
The lawmakers are trying to build off the success they had with the JOBS Act, which focused on easing capital to small businesses. Joining them at the news conference was Steve Case, a co-founder of America Online and one of the JOBS Act's biggest champions.
"This economy was built on risk-taking entrepreneurs," Mr. Case said. "It's important that we double down."
For decades, immigration measures have been far more controversial than straight business bills. Democrats and immigration advocates have held back visas for highly skilled workers and temporary agriculture worker programs to martial support among business groups, reasoning that once they passed, Republican allies would have secured their priorities and any effort to get a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants would lose the few Republican allies it has.
Immigration opponents have said high-skilled visa expansions take good-paying jobs from Americans and work as a disincentive for students who should be striving for those jobs.
Those factors make the new push for four relatively new senators an uphill climb.
"As the new guys, we didn't get the memo that in an election year, we're supposed to take the year off," Mr. Warner said. "Clearly, China is not taking the year off."

        
Florida Republicans Now Back Arizona Immigration Law
        
Rubio Criticizes Arizona's Immigration Law
        
Justice Department Submits Correction Letter to Supreme Court
        
Bachmann Renews Attack on Gingrich Over Immigration
        
Gingrich Risks Conservative Outrage on Immigration

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (86%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (61%); AGRICULTURE (50%) chris coons; higher education; immigration; Jerry Moran; marco rubio; mark warner; senators; visa; Coons, Christopher A; Moran, Jerry; Rubio, Marco; Foreign Students (in US); Immigration and Emigration; Law and Legislation; Visas; Congress

COMPANY: AOL INC (51%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (90%); JERRY MORAN (90%); CHRIS COONS (90%); MARK WARNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STEVE CASE (50%) Coons, Christopher A; Moran, Jerry; Rubio, Marco

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



851 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: 'Super PACs' Release Dueling Ads

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: A former Obama aide criticized a new ad by a Republican "super PAC" for featuring a fictional family suffering from President Obama's economic policies. 

 BODY:
A former Obama aide on Tuesday criticized a new ad by a Republican "super PAC" for featuring a fictional family suffering from President Obama's economic policies.
"In our ads, we portray real-life stories of Americans who were devastated by the decisions Mitt Romney made," said the former aide, Bill Burton, who helped found Priorities USA Action.
The target of his ire? An ad by Crossroads GPS that highlights the struggles of a woman whose grown children are forced to move in with her because of the worsening economy during Mr. Obama's tenure.
Mr. Burton's group has been running ads featuring workers who lost jobs at companies owned by Bain Capital, the private equity firm Mitt Romney used to run.
"You don't need actors to know the reality of how Mitt Romney's policies would make life even tougher for middle class families," Mr. Burton said.
On Tuesday, Mr. Burton's group released its own ad featuring a woman who was laid off from an Indiana office supply company after it was bought by Bain.
"I was suddenly 60 years old. I had no health care. And that's scary," the woman says. "When Mitt Romney did that he, he made, he made me sick."
The criticism by Mr. Burton of the Crossroads ad comes after Mr. Obama's campaign received similar flack for creating the character of "Julia" in a Web-based advertisement meant to highlight the impact of Republican policies on young women.
Mr. Romney mocked the "Julia" graphic in a speech in Michigan this month, calling it a "cartoon" and dismissed the "imaginary life filled with happy milestones" it portrays.
"What does it say about a president's policies when he has to use a cartoon character rather than real people to justify his record?" Mr. Romney said in the speech. "What does it say about the fiction of old liberalism to insist that good jobs and good schools and good wages will result from policies that have failed us, time and again?"
Yet, the Crossroads ad uses largely the same tactic on Mr. Romney's behalf, inventing a suburban mom who laments that her children can't find jobs and that she can't afford to retire.
"I always loved watching the kids play basketball. I still do, even though things have changed," the woman says in the ad. "Things changed for the worse. Obama started spending like our credit cards have no limit."
The Crossroad ad shows pictures of the fictional family on the fireplace mantle as the woman laments Mr. Obama's policies.
In a statement to reporters, Mr. Burton says of the ad by Crossroads, the group founded by the Republican strategist Karl Rove :
"If Romney wins, the fictional woman in Rove's ad would see the 'gradual demise' of her fictional Medicare. Her fictional adult children could no longer be carried on her fictional health insurance, and the student loans for those kids would cost more. And all of that would be so that Romney could give the fictional wealthy -- not portrayed in the ad -- massive tax cuts."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WOMEN (78%); CHILDREN (75%); LIBERALISM (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (52%); BASKETBALL (50%) Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies; Priorities USA Action; Elections

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital; Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies; Priorities USA Action

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); KARL ROVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



852 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Biden Presses Bain Attack as Prominent Democrat Urges Caution

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. continued the assault on former Gov. Mitt Romney's business background on Tuesday, saying it did not qualify him to be president, even as another prominent Democrat expressed misgivings about the White House strategy. 

 BODY:
 Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. continued the assault on former Gov. Mitt Romney's business background on Tuesday, saying it did not qualify him to be president, even as another prominent Democrat expressed misgivings about the White House strategy.
 A day after President Obama said Mr. Romney's experience running Bain Capital was "what this campaign is going to be about," Mr. Biden traveled to New Hampshire to press home the point. When Bain bought troubled firms, he said, the result sometimes was that "the companies go under, everybody loses their job, the community is devastated but they make money."
 "Making money for your investors, which Romney did very well, is not the president's job," Mr. Biden said. "The president has a different job." He added that he was not criticizing private equity firms. "But I'm suggesting the people who run them, the same quality and objective of running a private equity firm is not what qualifies you to be president."
 The vice president's comments doubled down on the Obama campaign effort to turn Mr. Romney's political strength against him early enough in the general election cycle to leave him discredited by the time fall arrives. The danger of Mr. Romney's business background as a political asset was underscored by a new Washington Post-ABC News poll that found him tied with the president among voters who were asked which would do a better job handling the economy.
 But the White House approach has stirred dissent within the party. Two days after Cory Booker, the Democratic mayor of Newark, called the focus on Bain Capital a "nauseating" part of campaigning, another top Democrat, former Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania, added his own concerns about the attacks.
 "I think they're very disappointing," he told the web site BuzzFeed. "I think Bain is fair game, because Romney has made it fair game. But I think how you examine it, the tone, what you say, is important as well."
 Mr. Rendell praised Mr. Booker. "People in politics should tell the truth," he said. "He could have qualified it better; he could have framed it better. But if you're in this business, none of us like negative ads."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); MAYORS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%) Biden, Joseph R Jr; Booker, Cory A; Rendell, Edward G; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; New Hampshire; Elections

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); ED RENDELL (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Biden, Joseph R Jr; Booker, Cory A; Rendell, Edward G; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (52%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



853 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: May 22, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Obama vs. Catholics, Catholics vs. Obama

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Is the Obama administration's dispute with Catholic institutions turning into a fight with American Catholicism as a culture? 

 BODY:
Exit polling tells us that in every presidential election since 1972, the candidate who has won Catholics has won the popular vote as well. To the unsophisticated, this statistic might suggest that the Catholic vote is tremendously important. But the self-consciously savvy often invoke it as evidence that "the Catholic vote" doesn't really exist at all - that self-identified Catholics are as diverse and divided as the country as a whole, and thus any campaign that wins over swing voters in general will inevitably win over Catholic swing voters as well.
The truth lies somewhere in between. The Catholic vote does look a lot like the American vote in microcosm, encompassing liberals and conservatives, the lukewarm and the devout, the partisan and the uncommitted and everything in between. But as National Review's Ramesh Ponnuru points out, there is evidence that Catholic swing voters are slightly more up for grabs than the average independent. Ponnuru notes that George W. Bush "improved his share of Catholic voters between 2000 and 2004 more than he did his overall share; and the Republican share of the Catholic vote fell a bit more between 2004 and 2008 than did the Republican share of the overall vote."
What's more, not all swing voters have the same interests and priorities, and the Catholic swing voter has a fairly distinctive profile. As Mark Stricherz of (appropriately enough) CatholicVote.Org has argued, such voters are more likely to be "culturally conservative, economically populist or liberal, and moderate to liberal on foreign policy." (They're also more likely to abound in states like Pennsylvania and Ohio.) Hence the advice that the Catholic Democrat Jim Arkedis offered to the Obama campaign in this space last week: To win Catholic swing voters, emphasize social justice and economic solidarity, but don't try "to drive a wedge between the faithful and official church positions" on culture-war issues.
This is sound advice for Democratic politicians, but it's also advice that this particular Democratic White House has conspicuously failed to take. Instead, the Department of Health and Human Services' mandate requiring religious institutions to purchase health care plans that cover sterilization, contraception and the morning-after pill has made the institutional Church itself - its universities, its schools, its hospitals, its charitable organizations - an issue in this election.
Initially, this looked like a potential political disaster for the president, one that produced a rare united Catholic front in opposition to the administration's policy. But the White House's cleverly-conceived compromise proposal succeeded in undoing some of the damage: By promising that insurers, rather than the religious institutions themselves, would be liable for paying for the controversial products and procedures, the administration persuaded many liberal-leaning Catholics to walk back their opposition to the mandate.
The Catholic bishops, however, were not mollified, arguing - correctly, in my view - that the administration's modified rule was an accounting fiction, which changed the description of the policy without changing its substance. The government would still be determining what kinds of health care plans religious institutions could and could not purchase, leaving those institutions with the same choice between (as National Review's Yuval Levin put it) "paying an insurer to provide their workers with access to a product that violates their convictions or paying a fine to the government."
What has followed has been a test of the bishops' ability to shepherd their own church. The Obama White House clearly hoped that most of the Catholic institutions directly affected by the mandate would embrace the supposed compromise, isolating the bishops not only from more liberal members of their flock but from touchstones of American Catholic identity like Catholic Charities and the University of Notre Dame. This would frame the issue as yet another intra-Catholic dispute over sexuality and abortion, rather than an external assault on Catholic religious liberty.
Seen in this light, Georgetown University's decision to invite Kathleen Sebelius, the Health and Human Services Secretary, to speak at its commencement last week was exactly the kind of development the White House was hoping for, since it opened a split between a prominent Catholic university and the Catholic hierarchy over the proper response to the administration's policy.
The lawsuits that the Catholic bishops filed against Sebelius's department this week, on the other hand, are bad news for the White House, because they were filed not only on behalf of individual dioceses but on behalf of numerous other Catholic organizations as well - charitable groups, health care organizations, and a group of colleges and universities that included, yes, Notre Dame.
Whether these organizations win in court will presumably depend on how the judicial branch weighs the public health concern involved. It's true that religious institutions can't be exempt from every regulation they don't like, and maybe the courts will accept the argument that it's worth sacrificing a measure of religious liberty in order to marginally expand the number of insurance plans covering contraception.
But the mere existence of the suit, and the diversity of the institutions associated with it, creates a political headache for the Obama campaign. For decades, Democratic politicians have found ways to win Catholic swing voters despite taking positions that are at odds with the Catholic Church's views on abortion, same-sex marriage, and yes, contraception. But it will be considerably harder for this White House to win over those same voters if it seems to be picking a fight with American Catholicism as a culture - with the local Catholic hospital, the local Catholic soup kitchen, and yes, the Fighting Irish.

        
Reaching Catholics
        
Obama and the New Freedom
        
Obama on the High Wire
        
Believing in Obama
        
Liberty and Justice for All

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); VOTERS & VOTING (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); RELIGION (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (84%); CONTRACEPTION (84%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); INSURANCE (72%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (70%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HEALTH CARE (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (61%); CHARITIES (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Barack Obama; Catholic voters; Catholics; Kathleen Sebelius; Sebelius, Kathleen; Birth Control and Family Planning; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Health and Human Services Department; Roman Catholic Church

ORGANIZATION: Health and Human Services Department; Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Sebelius, Kathleen

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



854 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Golden State Warriors Return to San Francisco

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Golden State Warriors intend to leave Oakland in 2017 for a new arena on the San Francisco waterfront that the team's owners say they would finance privately. The city is giving the team a long-term lease on the dilapidated 13-acre pier, and the team will pay the estimated $100 million cost of repairs.
The deal is so new that there are no architectural plans, binding documents or regulatory approvals. The price tag is unknown, but it appears that the city will offer the team nothing more than a 66-year lease on the land and rent credits to recoup the costs of shoring up the crumbling pier and making infrastructure improvements -- the sort of obligations that are usually picked up by the public. 
''The mayor is clear that there will be no other subsidies,'' said Jennifer Matz, director of the office of economic and work force development in San Francisco. Besides the land at the foot of the Bay Bridge where the arena will sit, the city is offering a lease on a smaller nearby parcel that the team can develop.
The Warriors' private-financing model is AT&T Park, the waterfront home of the San Francisco Giants that is about a half-mile away, also along the Embarcadero.
Joe Lacob, the team's co-owner, said at a news conference at Piers 30-32, the arena's site: ''We know that in California, particularly San Francisco and Oakland, that they're challenged by a lot of economic issues. The right thing was if we could get the right deal on a parcel we'd come in and build the arena.''
Lacob expects that it will take five years to get permits and to build the arena that Matz said she was told would cost $300 million to $500 million. That would be far less than the $1 billion being spent to erect Barclays Center in Brooklyn. ''We're faced with a tight timeline,'' Lacob said, alluding to the 2017 expiration of the Warriors' lease at Oracle Arena in Oakland.
The team had been wooed by San Francisco's mayor, Edwin Lee, to leave Oakland since last December; he encouraged the owners to first look at a plan that would put an arena in a development planned by the Giants near AT&T Park. But in March, the Warriors' focus shifted to Piers 30-32 when the America's Cup abandoned its plan to develop the land, now an asphalt parking lot, in time for the 2013 regatta.
''It's been 41 years since the Warriors played in San Francisco,'' Lee said at the news conference. ''It's time to welcome them home.''
The Warriors left Philadelphia in 1962 for Daly City, just outside San Francisco, to play in the Cow Palace. Two stars from that era, Nate Thurmond and Al Attles, attended the news conference.
''Can you imagine an arena called the Cow Palace?'' asked Jerry West, the former Los Angeles Lakers player, coach and general manager, who sits on the Warriors' executive board. Thinking ahead to the completion of the team's new arena, West said, ''This would be my resting place if I were a free agent.''
The Warriors began playing games in Oakland in 1966 when the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum Arena -- now the renovated Oracle Arena -- opened. The move did not become permanent until 1971 when the team re-christened itself as the Golden State Warriors.
Matz called the location of the Warriors' proposed new arena an ''incredibly striking site'' and said that ''building such a large edifice by the Bay Bridge requires that we have a pretty spectacular design.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); BASEBALL (73%); APPROVALS (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



855 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Partnership Plans Superfast Wired Internet for Communities Near Six Universities

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- A start-up company plans to announce Wednesday that it has raised $200 million to deliver ultrahigh-speed Internet service in six communities surrounding research universities around the country.
The company, Gigabit Squared, will work with Gig.U, an alliance of public and private universities that want to build islands of superfast networks to foster economic development and to promote services like education, health care and scientific research in the communities.
The six communities have not been named. Gigabit Squared, based in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, is in negotiations with its first university and says it will make announcements about timing and participation later this year. 
Mark Ansboury, the company's president and co-founder, said the investment in high-speed wired networks was needed because American telephone and cable companies had shifted their focus to wireless systems, which are convenient but much slower.
''The big carriers built their fiber-to-the-home systems, but we have really seen them pull back in recent years,'' he said.
He noted that the United States was falling behind other nations that have moved aggressively to build high-speed Internet infrastructures. It ranked 13th in average connection speed in a survey last year by the network service provider Akamai; the world leader was South Korea, followed by Japan, Hong Kong, the Netherlands and Latvia.
The world's fastest city was Daegu, South Korea, at 21.8 megabits per second, followed by five other South Korean cities and eight cities in Japan.
Boston, with an average bandwidth of 8.4 megabits, was fastest in the United States but ranked just 51st on the Akamai list.
The United States has not always trailed in broadband speeds. In 1996, @Home, an Internet service provider started by a number of cable companies, charged $40 a month for download speeds up to 5 megabits.
''A decade and a half later we've basically doubled our download speeds and we charge roughly the same,'' said Milo Medin, the designer of the @Home network service. Today he is vice president of access services at Google, where he is leading an effort to demonstrate the value of ultrahigh-speed networking.
Last year Google selected Kansas City, Mo., to build a prototype for speeds of at least a gigabit -- 1,000 megabits per second. The company originally said it would offer the service in the first half of this year, but the date has slipped and Mr. Medin said the details would be announced soon.
Google has already deployed a small demonstration network in homes next to the Stanford campus.
''When our first user was installed, the first thing they did was test the speed of the network and then they downloaded a movie from Apple's iTunes service,'' Mr. Medin said. The service said the movie would take about two and a half hours to download, but it took five minutes.
Gigabit Squared described the next generation of Internet service as two gigabits -- about 2,000 megabits per second, roughly 71 times the speed of a standard cable modem.
Still, there is some debate about the value of ultrahigh-speed networking. Most Internet engineers agree that very few applications require such high speeds, except in specialized areas like scientific research and remote medical technology. But proponents argue that the same thing was true in the period between dial-up Internet service and today's higher-speed links.
''If you treat the communications space as entering into an era of abundance rather than scarcity,'' said Reed Hundt, a former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, ''you can imagine very different use cases.''
Only by deploying next generation networks will it be possible to determine whether services like advanced online education systems and remote medical diagnosis and health care are really the wave of the future.
Gig.U is the brainchild of Blair Levin, former director of the government's 2010 National Broadband Plan, which originally called for high-speed network islands around military bases. Mr. Levin later settled on university communities as a better starting base for future Internet services.
Even though major communications firms are not pushing toward higher speeds, there are pilot efforts at gigabit networking in several states, including Tennessee, Louisiana and California.
For example, Sonic.net, a regional Internet service provider based in Northern California, is offering gigabit networks to homes on several blocks in Sebastopol, north of San Francisco.
The service is $59.95 a month, said Dane Jasper, Sonic.net's chief executive, who added, ''It's the fastest and cheapest broadband in America -- although it's admittedly a small footprint.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Fastest Connections: The United States ranks 13th in average Internet connection speed and Boston, at No. 51, is the highest American city. (Source: Akamai Technologies) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); STARTUPS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BROADBAND (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (71%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); APPLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); TAEGU, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (50%) OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); LATVIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



856 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: The Crisis of European Democracy

BYLINE: By AMARTYA SEN. 
Amartya Sen, a Nobel laureate and a professor of economics and philosophy at Harvard, is the author, most recently, of ''The Idea of Justice.''

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
IF proof were needed of the maxim that the road to hell is paved with good intentions, the economic crisis in Europe provides it. The worthy but narrow intentions of the European Union's policy makers have been inadequate for a sound European economy and have produced instead a world of misery, chaos and confusion.
There are two reasons for this. 
First, intentions can be respectable without being clearheaded, and the foundations of the current austerity policy, combined with the rigidities of Europe's monetary union (in the absence of fiscal union), have hardly been a model of cogency and sagacity. Second, an intention that is fine on its own can conflict with a more urgent priority -- in this case, the preservation of a democratic Europe that is concerned about societal well-being. These are values for which Europe has fought, over many decades.
Certainly, some European countries have long needed better economic accountability and more responsible economic management. However, timing is crucial; reform on a well-thought-out timetable must be distinguished from reform done in extreme haste. Greece, for all of its accountability problems, was not in an economic crisis before the global recession in 2008. (In fact, its economy grew by 4.6 percent in 2006 and 3 percent in 2007 before beginning its continuing shrinkage.)
The cause of reform, no matter how urgent, is not well served by the unilateral imposition of sudden and savage cuts in public services. Such indiscriminate cutting slashes demand -- a counterproductive strategy, given huge unemployment and idle productive enterprises that have been decimated by the lack of market demand. In Greece, one of the countries left behind by productivity increases elsewhere, economic stimulation through monetary policy (currency devaluation) has been precluded by the existence of the European monetary union, while the fiscal package demanded by the Continent's leaders is severely anti-growth. Economic output in the euro zone continued to decline in the fourth quarter of last year, and the outlook has been so grim that a recent report finding zero growth in the first quarter of this year was widely greeted as good news.
There is, in fact, plenty of historical evidence that the most effective way to cut deficits is to combine deficit reduction with rapid economic growth, which generates more revenue. The huge deficits after World War II largely disappeared with fast economic growth, and something similar happened during Bill Clinton's presidency. The much praised reduction of the Swedish budget deficit from 1994 to 1998 occurred alongside fairly rapid growth. In contrast, European countries today are being asked to cut their deficits while remaining trapped in zero or negative economic growth.
There are surely lessons here from John Maynard Keynes, who understood that the state and the market are interdependent. But Keynes had little to say about social justice, including the political commitments with which Europe emerged after World War II. These led to the birth of the modern welfare state and national health services -- not to support a market economy but to protect human well-being.
Though these social issues did not engage Keynes deeply, there is an old tradition in economics of combining efficient markets with the provision of public services that the market may not be able to deliver. As Adam Smith (often seen simplistically as the first guru of free-market economics) wrote in ''The Wealth of Nations,'' there are ''two distinct objects'' of an economy: ''first, to provide a plentiful revenue or subsistence for the people, or, more properly, to enable them to provide such a revenue or subsistence for themselves; and secondly, to supply the state or commonwealth with a revenue sufficient for the public services.''
Perhaps the most troubling aspect of Europe's current malaise is the replacement of democratic commitments by financial dictates -- from leaders of the European Union and the European Central Bank, and indirectly from credit-rating agencies, whose judgments have been notoriously unsound.
Participatory public discussion -- the ''government by discussion'' expounded by democratic theorists like John Stuart Mill and Walter Bagehot -- could have identified appropriate reforms over a reasonable span of time, without threatening the foundations of Europe's system of social justice. In contrast, drastic cuts in public services with very little general discussion of their necessity, efficacy or balance have been revolting to a large section of the European population and have played into the hands of extremists on both ends of the political spectrum.
Europe cannot revive itself without addressing two areas of political legitimacy. First, Europe cannot hand itself over to the unilateral views -- or good intentions -- of experts without public reasoning and informed consent of its citizens. Given the transparent disdain for the public, it is no surprise that in election after election the public has shown its dissatisfaction by voting out incumbents.
Second, both democracy and the chance of creating good policy are undermined when ineffective and blatantly unjust policies are dictated by leaders. The obvious failure of the austerity mandates imposed so far has undermined not only public participation -- a value in itself -- but also the possibility of arriving at a sensible, and sensibly timed, solution.
This is a surely a far cry from the ''united democratic Europe'' that the pioneers of European unity sought.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL STOLLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CURRENCIES (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (64%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



857 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Spain: Teachers Strike Over Education Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
MADRID -- It was no mistake that university campuses proliferated during Spain's decade-long, construction-led boom years. Education and health care have long been two of the most prized -- and seemingly sacred -- parts of the European social model favored by Spain. Even as the economic crisis has spread through Europe, Spaniards had shielded social spending in those areas from the consequences.
But now, with the government struggling to clean up public finances, education and health care spending have moved front and center of the battle over what, after all the austerity measures are put in place, will be left of the vaunted welfare state many Spaniards have also come to associate with European Union membership. 
On Tuesday, Spanish teachers went on strike in cities across the country by the thousands, seeking to defend the education sector against a package of spending cuts -- 10 billion, or $12.7 billion -- approved last week by Parliament as part of the government's plan to meet its more stringent budget targets.
The strike was the first ever coordinated by Spain's five main teachers' unions, across the whole of the state education sector, from nursery school to university. While the unions claimed that 80 percent joined the strike, the government put the level at 19.4 percent.
Students held protests as well in Spain's main cities, with a group of them also briefly blocking two highways around Barcelona during the morning rush hour. In Seville, students plan to occupy the city's historic university building for several days to protest against the spending cuts.
''Education is absolutely the last thing that should get squeezed because it's absurd to try to make amends for the spending mistakes of the past by jeopardizing the prospects of the next generation,'' said Ignacio Valero, an economics professor at the Complutense University, who stayed away from work and planned to join thousands of others on a protest march in central Madrid late Tuesday afternoon.
For its part, the government insists that its education overhaul is not just a cost-cutting exercise but also an attempt to raise efficiency and quality. Regional governments oversee both education and health spending, and during the construction boom several new university campuses were often among their flagship projects.
As a result, Spain has 79 universities, spread across 236 campuses and offering 2,413 different undergraduate degrees as well as 2,758 masters' degrees. Jose Ignacio Wert, Spain's education minister, recently compared unfavorably such statistics with those of California, which has about 10 million fewer inhabitants and by his count only 10 universities.
''The problem of our education system is not fundamentally a problem of resources,'' Mr. Wert told a parliamentary committee. ''We are facing a situation of stagnation, if not regression in our education system, to which we must respond.''
To back his arguments, Mr. Wert also noted that despite its huge spending on university infrastructure, Spain does not have a single university among the world's top 150, according to the Shanghai ranking of world universities. Instead, the university dropout rate in Spain is 30 percent -- compared with the European average of 16 percent -- which he estimated to represent a lost investment in human capital worth 2.96 billion a year.
In April, Mr. Wert set up a committee of independent advisers to help raise university standards. Yet he has also lambasted ''the complete lack of flexibility'' of Spanish students, even in the midst of another recession that has pushed youth unemployment above 50 percent. Only 7 percent of Spanish students move out of their home region to pursue university studies, compared with 68 percent in the United States and 52 percent in Britain.
Teachers were also protesting against the government's plan to extend their working hours and fill more classrooms, with schools encouraged to raise the number of pupils per class by 20 percent in the coming academic year in order to lower running costs.
State universities will be allowed to raise fees by as much as 66 percent, a move that some education specialists are warning will shut out young people who have recently chosen to extend their studies rather than join the unemployment lines.
''If young people cannot afford to study anymore, what else are they meant to be doing while this crisis drags on and makes it impossible for them to find work?'' said Maria Angeles Marquez, 55, a civil servant in the national Education Ministry who said she fully supported the latest protests.
Spain's privately financed schools and universities stayed open on Tuesday. But there, too, some employees said that they were firmly opposed to allowing the government to cut for the first time state spending on education and health.
Meanwhile, the health sector is facing even deeper cuts than education. This month, lawmakers approved a new payment system that will require patients to cover a larger portion of the cost of their state-subsidized medicine, depending on their income level. Pensioners will also have to pay as much as 10 percent of drugs whose cost had previously been fully covered by social security.
''Access to education and health is among the basic rights of citizens and as such should be untouchable, whatever the state of the economy,'' said Jose San Julian, the director of La Salle San Rafael, a Catholic school that is partly financed by the Madrid regional government and has 750 pupils. ''If our politicians really have to make more cuts, they should start by lowering their own salaries.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANU FERNANDEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (93%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



858 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Power With Purpose

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Political power is always a double-edged sword. The more of it you amass, the more people expect you to use it to do big things, and, when you don't, the more ineffectual you look. That's the dilemma in which Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu of Israel finds himself. He avoided early elections by adding a new centrist coalition partner to his right-wing cabinet, giving him control of 96 of the 120 seats in Parliament. There are Arab dictators who didn't have majorities that big after rigged elections. What is unclear is whether Bibi assembled these multitudes to be better able to do nothing or be better able to do something important to secure Israel's future. 
The stakes could not be higher -- for him and Israel. Ami Ayalon, the former commander of Israel's Navy and later its domestic intelligence service, put it to me this way: ''I imagine a book called 'Jewish Leaders in Recent History' that one day Bibi's grandson will be reading. What will it say? In one version, I imagine the section about the State of Israel will say that Herzl envisaged it, Ben-Gurion built it and Netanyahu secured it as a Jewish democracy.'' But there is another version that could also be written, added Ayalon. ''This version will describe Herzl and Ben-Gurion in the same way, but it will say of Netanyahu that he was the only Israeli leader who had the political power and he missed his moment in history'' -- and, thereby, created a situation in which Israel is not a Jewish democracy anymore. ''Now is his moment to decide.''
I'm keeping an open mind, but the temptation for Bibi to do nothing will be enormous. The Palestinians are divided between Hamas in Gaza and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank, and both populations are tired. Moreover, economic conditions have improved in the West Bank in recent years, and the Palestinian Authority's security forces are keeping a tight rein on anti-Israeli violence. Aid from the U.S., Europe and the Arabs pays a lot of the authority's budget. Israel's security wall keeps Palestinian suicide bombers out. The U.S. election silences any criticism coming from Washington about Israeli settlements. The Israeli peace camp is dead, and the Arab awakening has most Arab states enfeebled or preoccupied. So Israel gets to build settlements, while the Arabs, Americans, Europeans and Palestinians fund and sustain a lot of the occupation.
No wonder then that for most Israelis, the West Bank could be East Timor. ''We see the writing on the wall, but we don't care,'' says the columnist Nahum Barnea of the Israeli newspaper Yediot Aharonot, referring to the fact that Arabs could soon outnumber Jews in areas under Israeli control.
The exception to all of this is Iran's nuclear program, but Bibi -- either through brilliant bluffing that he will bomb Iran or a sincere willingness to do so -- has managed to make stopping Iran's nuclear program a top U.S. and global priority.
Whenever a nation or leader amasses this much power, with no checks coming from anywhere, the probability of misreading events grows exponentially. Bibi could be assuming that the Palestinians in the West Bank can be pacified simply with better economic conditions. Don't count on it. Humiliation remains the single most powerful human emotion. It trumps economic well-being every time. Bibi could be assuming that the Palestinian security services will indefinitely act as Israel's forward police force in the West Bank -- absent any hopes of Palestinian statehood. Not likely -- eventually they will be viewed as ''traitors.'' Bibi could be assuming that Israel could strike Iran -- and upend the world economy -- and still continue to build settlements in the West Bank. I would not bet on that; the global backlash could be severe. Bibi could be assuming that the West Bank Palestinian leadership will always be moderate, secular and pro-Western. If only ...
At the same time, Bibi is prime minister for a reason. He was elected because many Israelis lost faith in the peace process and see chaos all around them. So what to do? Here I think Ayalon has the best new idea: ''constructive unilateralism.''
In an essay in this newspaper on April 24, Ayalon and two colleagues argued that Israel should first declare its willingness to return to negotiations anytime and that it has no claims of sovereignty on any West Bank lands east of its security barrier. It should then end all settlement construction east of that barrier and in Arab neighborhoods of Jerusalem and establish an attractive housing and relocation plan to help the 100,000 Jewish settlers who live east of the barrier to relocate within Israel's recognized borders. The Israeli Army would remain in the West Bank until the conflict was resolved with a final-status agreement. And Israel would not physically force any citizens to leave until an agreement was reached, even though relocations could begin well before then. Such an initiative would radically change Israel's image in the world, dramatically increase Palestinian incentives to negotiate and create a pathway for securing Israel as a Jewish democracy. And Bibi could initiate it tomorrow.
''Heroic peacemaking is over,'' says Ayalon. It is time for ''coordinated'' and ''constructive'' unilateralism. The way is there. Does Bibi have the will?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HAMAS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); WRITERS (67%); BUDGETS (61%); GRANDCHILDREN (52%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



859 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: New Rules For Prepaid Debit Cards

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
The nation's consumer financial watchdog is preparing restrictions on prepaid debit cards, a largely unregulated product that is flourishing even amid concerns about high fees and poor disclosures.
On Wednesday, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is expected to introduce a preliminary rule for prepaid products - the first of its kind. The bureau, which is expected to complete an overhaul in the next year, will also hold a hearing on Wednesday in Durham, N.C., that will feature testimony from consumer advocates and some of the card industry's biggest players.
Until now, prepaid cards have escaped the regulations passed after the financial crisis. As new rules have targeted credit cards and traditional debit cards, a number of banks barreled into the prepaid market. 
While the consumer bureau's new effort would not rein in most fees that come with the cards, like a $5 monthly maintenance fee, it would require companies to reimburse consumers for unauthorized charges.
Card providers argue that they offer a competitive price and help consumers control their spending. But some federal regulators and consumer advocates worry that companies are steering low-income consumers into a relatively expensive product rather than plain vanilla checking accounts.
''The people who use prepaid cards are, in many instances, the most vulnerable among us,'' Richard Cordray, the consumer bureau's director, said in a statement, adding that ''right now prepaid cards have far fewer regulatory protections'' than traditional banking products.
David Newville, policy manager with the Center for Financial Services Innovation, said the proposed regulations would provide much needed transparency.
They are ''what we would like to see,'' he said.
The new oversight would coincide with a boom in the prepaid business. In 2009, borrowers had roughly $29 billion worth of prepaid cards, according to the Mercator Advisory Group, which provides research for the payments industry. By 2013, the volume of money on prepaid cards is expected to swell to $90 billion.
As big banks clamor for customers, they are muscling their way into the market, which until a few years ago was largely the terrain of less traditional financial firms like Green Dot and NetSpend. They also would be subject to the new rule.
In March, Wells Fargo introduced a reloadable prepaid card. And, Regions Financial, based in Birmingham, Ala., unveiled a prepaid card aimed at borrowers who typically do not have a traditional bank account.
JPMorgan announced earlier this month that it would start offering prepaid cards. Branded as ''Liquid,'' the card carries a $4.95 monthly maintenance fee but does not charge customers to add money.
The banks were drawn, in part, because prepaid cards were largely untouched by the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law and other recent crackdowns that have siphoned billions of dollars in income from debit and credit card fees.
The law exempted prepaid cards from the so-called Durbin Amendment, allowing banks to impose high fees on merchants when consumers make a purchase with a prepaid card.
Advocacy groups have questioned whether card issuers clearly explain to cardholders the fees that come with the product, including charges to activate the card, load money on it, check a balance at cash machines and speak to customer service.
Some consumer advocates say the fees erode the money loaded onto the cards. Wells Fargo, for example, charges $3 for customers to withdraw money using a bank teller and $5 to replace a lost card.
A study by Pew, a nonprofit research group, also indicated that some customers were unaware their prepaid cards are not necessarily protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The bureau's new proposal would not address that issue.
But under the bureau's so-called advanced notice of proposed rulemaking, the agency is seeking to apply a longstanding federal rule for debit and gift cards to prepaid products. The rule, known as Regulation E, requires companies to reimburse customers for unauthorized transactions that pop up when a prepaid card is lost or stolen.
Consumer advocates including Adam Rust of Reinvestment Partners cheered the bureau's plan.
''This is why we have a C.F.P.B.,'' said Mr. Rust, who will join Visa and NetSpend executives among panelists at Wednesday's hearing. ''We don't have basic protections in place for these cards.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREPAID CARDS (95%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); DEBIT CARDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); NETSPEND HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); NTSP (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (72%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



860 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: A Community Springs From Acres Once Held by a Reclusive Magnate

BYLINE: By JAMIE DUFFY

 BODY:
GREENVILLE, S.C. -- Over the last decade this city of 60,000 invested $76 million to erase memories of the malaise that had settled over its downtown. Not long ago, Main Street was a place to avoid, a skateboarder's paradise with little but concrete sidewalks and ratty parking lots. The grand Poinsett Hotel, built in 1925, stood vacant and was occupied by squatters.
That money has bought newly paved streets, landscaped sidewalks, lighting fixtures and multistory parking garages. During the day office workers and tourists pop in and out of art galleries and boutiques, stopping for a chat in a coffee shop and taking in public spaces that include quirky sculpture and flagstones inscribed with quotations from figures like Oscar Wilde and Malcolm Forbes. At night, there are restaurants and bars for residents, some of whom live downtown, and guests who stay at the hotel, now restored and called the Westin Poinsett.
The impetus for change, said Nancy Whitworth, the deputy city manager and the director of the local economic development authority, was the arrival in 1992 of BMW in nearby Spartanburg, S.C., a golden egg that has generated a network of parts and component suppliers throughout the Greenville region, which has a total population of about one million. 
While the Greenville area, or Upstate as it is known, moves away from textiles to an automotive, technology and medical-based economy, Ms. Whitworth's oversight also includes an 1,100-acre oasis of pine trees known as Verdae, a five-minute drive from downtown on the eastern rim of the city. There, a mixed-use development that includes offices, various types of housing, shopping, a hotel and a golf course is taking shape.
For years, little was developed at Verdae. It sat in natural isolation for decades while its owner, an eccentric textile magnate named John D. Hollingsworth, lived in an Airstream trailer on the grounds of his plant across Interstate 85 and leased small tracts to various businesses, including an Embassy Suites hotel, a golf course and a shopping center called Verdae Village. Reclusive and estranged from his wife and daughter, he died at age 83 in 2000, leaving to a trust an empire worth some $290 million, with 42,000 acres of land in the state. The trust mandated that all income generated from the estate would benefit Furman University, the Greenville Y.M.C.A. and other charities and community groups in Greenville.
Now Verdae is becoming a city within a city, designed with a walkable ''live, work, play'' ethos. Public and private investment has reached $100 million. A master plan approved in 2005 includes single-family homes, town homes and apartments, retail and office buildings, a retirement complex and a large medical building. A 20-acre recreation area called Legacy Park is already finished. Ultimately, projections call for up to 10,000 residents, 550 businesses and 15,000 jobs when Verdae is built out, a project estimated to take 15 to 20 years at a cost of $2.2 billion, primarily in private investment.
Rick Sumerel, the president and chief operating officer of Verdae Development, a subsidiary company of Hollingsworth Funds, is overseeing the project. He describes his job as working on a dream project that has ''no debt, no bankers, no investors.'' In an effort to maintain control, Mr. Sumerel said, Verdae will not sell land to speculators, and if a project is not developed as intended Verdae has the option to buy back the land for its selling price.
The hardest part, Mr. Sumerel said, has been ''to get local people to believe it really was going to happen,'' since Mr. Hollingsworth refused to sell any of his land. The current push is building residential units ''so the commerce will follow.''
Soon, a 240-unit luxury apartment complex called Tapestry at Hollingsworth Park is expected to break ground. Hollingsworth Park is a 300-acre ''neighborhood'' within Verdae that will have about 725 single-family and multifamily homes connected by sidewalks, bike paths and streets lined with oaks, crape myrtles and hollies.
A short distance away, three new commercial buildings are under way in the 13-acre Legacy Square district. Verdae Development itself is constructing a 7,200-square-foot building, intending to occupy the second floor, while N&H Enterprises of Greenville is erecting a similar building next door. Y.M.C.A. Verdae will occupy the entire ground floor, about 6,000 square feet, scheduled to open this September.
One resident taking the ''live, work, play'' mantra to heart is Joseph Holliday, a dentist in his 50s, whose 5,400-square-foot office, now under construction, will be a short golf cart ride away from his home in the Manor section, where the largest, most expensive homes are being built, on lots between a half-acre and a full acre, with prices starting at $800,000. Dr. Holliday's wife, Janice, said she was looking forward to the arrival of proposed electric buses, which would run a loop through Verdae to downtown Greenville, reducing the need for a car.
After renting a home in Verdae, the Hollidays were so impressed they decided to stay and build. ''We're able to get to our church in less than 10 minutes, fine dining in less than 10 minutes, cultural events in less than 10 minutes,'' Ms. Holliday said. ''It's a great place to be in this particular time in our life.''
While Hollingsworth Park fills up, the Cascades, a 40-acre continuing-care retirement village, is now 76 percent occupied. Across Verdae Boulevard from the Cascades is Internal Medicine Associates, a 50,000-square-foot facility with 30 physicians and 150 support staff members that opened about two years ago and has just added urgent care to its services.
Those who need short-term leases on furnished apartments can find them at the Azalea Hills Suites, where 160 one- and two-bedroom units start at $770 a month. The complex serves new employees and guests working at the International Center for Automotive Research, or ICAR, a partnership between Clemson University and BMW that sits across Interstate 85 from Verdae along with Hubbell Lighting and a TD Bank complex, all built on a 407-acre parcel that was part of Mr. Hollingsworth's properties.
Verdae appears to be attracting younger residents, too. Kristin and Charlie Wyche, in their mid-20s, found Ruskin Square in Hollingsworth Park just taking a ride one day and were sold on what Verdae calls a ''traditional neighborhood development.'' They moved into their $500,000 custom-designed red clapboard home in November 2010, one of the first 10 built, Ms. Wyche said.
''We love our house,'' she said. ''We love our neighborhood.'' Even so, Ms. Wyche said she wished for a few other amenities, including a coffee shop. ''We would really like a neighborhood pub,'' she said. ''I think that would do well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Commercial buildings are under way in Verdae in South Carolina, near the 20-acre Legacy Park.
 Hollingsworth Park, a 300-acre neighborhood in Verdae, will have about 725 single-family and multifamily homes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANNE McQUARY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Verdae's developers conceive it as a city within a city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); SCULPTURE (75%); RETAILERS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); SKATEBOARDING (72%); EXTREME SPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TEXTILES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (92%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



861 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS, WILLIAM ALDEN and MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
JPMORGAN INQUIRIES CONFIRMED Two regulators confirmed reports that their agencies had opened investigations into JPMorgan's trading debacle at a Senate hearing. Mary L. Schapiro, left, head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Gary Gensler, head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said that they were weighing whether it would reshape rules for Wall Street. ''Our focus is on the quality of their risk disclosure,'' Ms. Schapiro said. Mr. Gensler declined to discuss specifics but described, in theory, the agency's authority to investigate fraud and manipulation of the derivatives market. BEN PROTESS 
SAP TO BUY ARIBA SAP, the German business software giant, has agreed to buy Ariba, a provider of cloud computing services, for $4.5 billion. SAP, which battles with Oracle as the rival titans in enterprise software, will be expanding its cloud-based services with the deal. WILLIAM ALDEN
FORMULA ONE OWNERS The private equity firm CVC Capital has sold a 21 percent stake in Formula One to three investors for a combined $1.6 billion, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The buyers include Waddell & Reed, the Kansas-based money manager, BlackRock and a Norwegian sovereign wealth fund. The combined deals, which value the company at over $7 billion, have reduced CVC Capital's stake in Formula One to 42 percent, from 63 percent. The sale is part of the private equity firm's efforts to reduce its risk ahead of Formula One's I.P.O., the details of which began to be presented to investors on Tuesday. MARK SCOTT
MOTEL 6 IS SOLD The French hotel operator Accor agreed to sell its American budget hotel business to the Blackstone Group for $1.9 billion. The deal includes Motel 6 and Studio 6, an extended-stay economy chain. Accor says it will expand in fast-growing emerging economies and within Europe. MARK SCOTT
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CLOUD COMPUTING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); FUTURES (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); EMERGING MARKETS (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); SAP AG (84%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (56%); WADDELL & REED INC (55%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (55%); ACCOR SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); SAP (NYSE) (84%); SAP (FRA) (84%); SAP (BIT) (84%); BX (NYSE) (56%); WDR (NYSE) (55%); AC (PAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORWAY (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



862 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Advice for Chen Guangcheng, From a Fellow Passenger

BYLINE: By DANIEL C. CHUNG. 
Daniel C. Chung is the chief executive officer and chief investment officer at Fred Alger Management, an investment management company.

 BODY:
ON Saturday night, I returned home from a business trip in China, on a flight made extraordinary by the presence of another traveler, who was leaving his country for mine: Chen Guangcheng.
I sat in the row directly behind the family of Mr. Chen, the blind human rights activist who had been admitted to the United States to study law at New York University, and their American handlers. I wondered what I would say to Mr. Chen if I had the chance. (There was no such opportunity; I suspected that his handlers -- who unlike Mr. Chen's two well-behaved children bounced out of their seats with unusual frequency, alerting anyone nearby that something unusual was afoot -- would have intercepted any attempt at conversation.) I imagine other passengers wondered the same thing; as the Chen family exited the plane, the cabin of United Airlines Flight 88 filled with spontaneous applause. 
The first thing I would tell Mr. Chen would be to take his time before making any public observations on America and China. In China, he was a leading human rights lawyer and dissident, and his insights will no doubt be of great interest and value to us all. But in the United States, he is perhaps not so different from my late father, Kai Lai Chung, who came here in 1944 on a scholarship and received a Ph.D. in math from Princeton -- and who later in life became blind, as Mr. Chen is. Even with TV and the Internet, he is unlikely to understand or know our country and society very well at first.
Why such advice? Because I am worried that Mr. Chen and his family will be used as political fodder, by the Obama administration or by politicians of either party trying to advance the ''how great we are versus how bad China is'' theme we hear so often as America works through its cooperation/competition with China on commercial, environmental, strategic and countless other issues.
Having traveled frequently to China for business and pleasure for over three decades, I have seen the remarkable transformation that has lifted hundreds of millions of Chinese out of poverty. I have seen my own relatives move from rough village housing -- cooking and heating by coal, no telephone, and questionable running water -- to modern (if simple, by American standards) apartments.
In my first visit, as a teenager in 1975, I saw my father lead some of the first mathematical discussions between Chinese and American scholars after Richard M. Nixon and Henry A. Kissinger began to normalize Chinese-American relations. In the 1980s, as my father's eyesight failed (but not his will to educate Chinese students), I accompanied him as he saw old friends who had survived the Cultural Revolution. On my own, after a clerkship for the United States Supreme Court, I visited Tiananmen Square, a few months before the crackdown on the democracy protests.
Despite smog, urban blight, the persistent poverty of migrant workers and other challenges, my impression is that the Chinese seem happier over all. They increasingly recognize, and sometimes regret, the social price of economic transformation, but feel that the benefits outweigh the costs. When Mr. Chen does speak out, I hope it will have great impact. It is in his role as observer and critic, whether his stay in the United States ends up being long or short, that Mr. Chen can make the most of the spotlight that has been placed on him (a spotlight that will surely fade over time, as it has for other notable dissidents).
Mr. Chen has articulated serious criticisms of China's politics and government. But he might do well to think about, and perhaps educate us on, the similar obstacles we Americans face. We have our own dynastic ''princelings,'' whether in electoral politics or corporate boardrooms. Our air may be less polluted, but we seem unable to do our part to pay for efforts to slow global warming. Though independent, our press, particularly the broadcast media, focuses on distractions like the John Edwards trial more than on the corrupting influence of money in campaign finance and the legislative process.
While the American system of government may be less subject to bribery and overt nepotism than China's, in many ways our capitalist economy and democratic politics are dominated by ''too big to fail'' corporations and public-sector bureaucracies -- institutions far less monolithic than the Chinese Communist Party, but similarly influential and unaccountable. China's government is indeed authoritarian, but it has achieved much in a short time as a result of its ability to analyze, debate and then act to address problems from poverty reduction to infrastructure creation. All of this has been achieved without relying on debt. Our diverse society is a source of greatness, but the dysfunction of our politics -- the vanishing of the political center, the inability of elected representatives to find common ground on urgent problems, the triumph of bluster over reason -- is a growing source of weakness.
Mr. Chen's coming to America is a great thing. His reflections on China could become a prism for Americans to better understand our own future. It would be an odd but welcome triumph if an awkward diplomatic incident became a path to greater discussion and understanding. The relationship between the United States and China will be, for better or worse, the most important influence on world affairs for decades to come. Much of our strength in the past has come from the assimilation of immigrants into the United States and our nation's openness to change. Today, we need to summon that strength and openness again to help America assimilate in an increasingly multipolar world -- perhaps, with a little help from Mr. Chen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRLINES (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); LEGAL EDUCATION (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



863 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2447 words

HEADLINE: Weekly Communion, With the Occasional Elbow

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY. 
Dan Barry is a national columnist for The New York Times. This essay was first published in Commonweal magazine.

 BODY:
Another wintry Sunday morning at 7. And in the bifurcated building of a century-old Catholic parish called St. Joseph's, the faithful gather. On one side of the church wall, a few congregants beseech God as they join in the celebration of Mass. And on the other side, a few men beseech God as they join in games of basketball, their shouts of ''Jesus Christ!'' and ''Goddammit!'' rising above the wheezing of the close but unseen church organ.
I am among these middle-aged blasphemers, showing no emotion if I win, but full-throated in my profane analysis if I lose. Bowed and gasping after each game, I feel the mysterious tug on my basketball jersey that tells me I belong in one of the hardwood pews a few dozen yards away, squirming once again inside the Catholic Church of today. But for now at least, I find more comfort standing here, on a hardwood basketball court in an old gym, breathing in the stale, familiar air of the Catholic Youth Organization past. 
For more than a decade, I have been playing in this informal Sunday morning game, which was established a few years earlier by a dozen men who cheekily called themselves the Apostles. With the promise of modest donations to the financially challenged parish, they were granted that most coveted and elusive item of our youth, the gymnasium key.
For it is written on the walls of childhood: there is no greater waste than an unused basketball court.
I am drawn by the game's invitation to extend my boyhood, if only for a while. So I rise before the sun and the bedroom radiator's heat to gather my things, fumbling about for my gym bag, dropping my basketball, then my sneakers. As I tiptoe like Bigfoot toward the door, my wife calls from the bed to be careful. She's up for good.
Soon I am driving along the deserted streets of a city-close suburb with some urban attitude, peering through the peephole I have shaved from the wafer of frost covering the windshield. Passing the front of the church, I come upon the dawn's only other movement, a few older people walking gingerly toward the church's castle-worthy doors, as though age has covered the steps before them with imperceptible ice.
Pausing to let one of these faithful cross the street, slowly, I wonder whether the decades have revealed to them a divine presence most keenly felt at first light, when all else is still. I slip past the church's door in favor of a parking lot at the back of the building, facing the gymnasium door. Three or four other cars are idling in expectation, their bundled drivers hunched over steering wheels, seeking warmth from the overheated sports chat emanating from their radios. They look like silhouetted monks in cloistered cells of metal and glass, deep in mysterious meditation. I bow my head and join them as we wait for the arrival of one of the Keepers of the Code -- an Apostle who has been entrusted with the combination to the lockbox, beside the door, that contains the key. Over the years, the ever-changing combinations have reflected our age and sports affiliations: 1-9-6-9, for the year the Mets won their first World Series, for example, or 5-6-1-7, for the combined jersey numbers of Lawrence Taylor and Keith Hernandez. Sometimes, though, past and present combinations commingle in the mind, leaving men to huddle in the cold like hapless burglars while waiting for the frozen-fingered deciphering of the head yegg.
Not that the gym is much warmer. In winter, the only benefits to playing inside are the lack of snow on the court and the brick protection against the shot-altering wind.
We shuffle in and sit for a few minutes on the frigid floor, stifling private doubts about whether this game is behind us, summoning the body heat and energy to begin. We grunt, we curse, we joke about being able to see breath still redolent of last night's beer. Then, as churchgoers on the other side of the wall stand to pray at the commencement of Mass, we stand to take jump shots with basketballs that, like us, nearly always need more air.
In many ways, the gymnasium represents every other old parish gym known to any veteran of C.Y.O. Your gym may have had pillars planted in the middle of the court, or a low ceiling that thwarted rainbow jump shots, or sidelines so close to the glazed-brick wall as to deny the existence of out-of-bounds. But they were all united by certain constants: cramped space; poor heat; dappled light; sweat-infused air; coaches just home from work, still in their ties or uniform shirts, shouting out nicknames for pick-and-roll plays; parents, still in their winter coats, sitting in the battleship-gray folding chairs also used for bingo nights; and children in basketball uniforms bearing the names of their parishes, St. This and Our Lady of That, in colors that may or may not signal the ethnicity of their parish's founders. Growing up, I wore green and gold, for the Irish. Let's go, St. Cyril's, St. Cyril's, let's go....
The Sacred and the Profane, Together
This gym, this St. Joseph's gym, in Maplewood, N.J., five miles from downtown Newark and 15 from Manhattan, is all that and more. The parish was established in 1914, when a trolley ran between the mud fields on either side of Springfield Avenue and peach trees outnumbered Catholics. The first pastor said the inaugural Mass in the third-floor attic of one of the 16 member families. The first collection reaped $7.
As the Newark suburbs grew, so did St. Joseph's. The parish used a two-story house as its chapel and rectory until it scraped together enough money to build a small brick church, followed a few years later by a new school and an auditorium. But the Depression and a ballooning congregation tempered the parish's simple ambitions. By the late 1930s, the pastor had no choice but to convert the school auditorium into a church that could seat 900 -- a humble circumstance that would remain for 30 years, until the parish could finally afford to build a new church and use the auditorium as a gym.
This means that we play our pickup basketball games in sacred space. We lace up our sneakers on what was once the altar. We rest against walls adorned with church iconography: the host and chalice; the haloed lamb; the IHS monogram of the name of Jesus Christ. We run back and forth past spots that once represented the Stations of the Cross. We jockey for position, jostle for rebounds, pat backs, throw elbows, curse, reassure, shout out the midgame scores, 6-3, 4-2, 1-1, that will lose every whiff of urgency once one team scores a seventh basket -- all in the very space where generations were baptized, married, eulogized and sent to their final reward. I miss a layup where an out-of-work father might have prayed for a way to feed his family. I foul an opponent where a mother might have sought solace for the loss of a soldier-son in Europe, North Africa, the Pacific, Korea, Vietnam. I make a jump shot where I know that my wife received her first holy communion. Imagine all the silent seeking for that spiritual something beyond articulation that went on here, fulfilled and not, replaced now by middle-aged men trying, as we say, to get open.
Until very recently, we even played in the presence of a large crucifix that hung from two chains behind one of the baskets, above what had been the church altar and school stage. The crucifix has been removed, but there remains a discolored, basketball-size patch of plaster on the back wall, marking the spot where one of us, unhappy with his performance in a vital, all-important game to 7, rocketed a Spalding in frustration. The moment seemed to slip free of life's time clock as we watched the ball close in on the crucifix. That would be bad, very bad. We prayed, Oh, please God, not the crucifix. Now this off-white patch, just below where Christ's left arm was once outstretched, has joined the other iconography as a symbol of something: the power of prayer, perhaps, or the closeness between the sacred and the profane. The closeness between the church, there, and us, here.
In the Sunday morning coldness of the gym, we hope, we need, to play. We aspire to games of four-on-four on this truncated court, but if we cannot muster the eight players necessary, six will suffice for half-court games of three-on-three. (Two-on-two has lost its charm over the many years -- too strenuous, and too complicit in exposing one's diminishing skills.) But sometimes, we are only five, and I find myself staring out the gymnasium window, all but willing the appearance of a sixth player to drive up in his S.U.V. These moments of expected disappointment resurrect a childhood that seems to have been spent exactly this way: looking out a gym door or through a dugout's chain-link trellis, praying for one more kid, just one more, to show up so that my team would not forfeit the game. As a child, I considered forfeiture to be a crime against the natural order. Now here I am again, feeling all that and more, especially the sense of losing the precious time left to jog, to jump, to shoot. To play.
A sixth arrives and is greeted with derisive hoots that are rightly interpreted as expressions of relief and joy. Not too long ago, we had an active roster that numbered two dozen players, with as many as 14 or 15 routinely showing up to play. Under the universally recognized code that allows winners to stay on the court, this meant that if you lost a game when 15 had come to play, you might have to sit out two games -- a gymnasium eternity -- before being able to step onto the court again. Now, though, our numbers have dwindled to the point where we are commonly texting laggards at 7:15 on a Sunday morning to fulfill their obligation: drag your sorry ass out of bed and get down here.
Where has everyone gone? A few men have moved away, divorced, taken jobs in other states. But the rest, it seems, have surrendered to age, injury and fatigue. That white-haired guy with the short-and-sweet jumper? Bad feet. That former high school star who could nail 3-pointers with effortless flicks of his wrist? Bad back. That bull of a defender who would yank on knee braces like protective armor? One Sunday he did not show up, and never came back. We took his absence as a kind of death.
Sunday Services, Dutifully Attended
On the other side of the wall, the other ritual continues, the call-and-response between priest and congregation, the offertory, the exchange of signs of peace. And we are doing the same. The call-and-response between teammates: the urgent ''Pick left'' and ''You got him.'' The offertory: ''Ball's in.'' And the peaceful exchange at the end of every game, when we shake or slap hands -- though, in truth, hard fouls and sneaky picks have nearly led to fisticuffs in this former house of prayer.
In the snap of a finger or the throw of an elbow, we can revert instantly to hot-blooded boyishness. Decades of adult experience melt away, considerations of families and jobs evaporate, and what matters -- what really, really matters -- is that this 45-year-old clown admit that he touched the ball last before it went out of bounds. But just at the brink of true violence, something stops us. Call it maturity. Better yet, call it fear of having to tell your wife and employer that you have a broken nose because an opponent in a meaningless pickup game knocked the ball out of bounds and just wouldn't admit it.
So far at least, we have averted true violence and have ended all our games with exchanges of peace, if occasionally with eyes averted. The same, I suspect, is happening in church.
Those of us who return, Sunday after Sunday, cannot fathom not playing basketball. We are in our 40s and early 50s now, and the game has partly defined us since we were of first holy communion age, in C.Y.O. games, in high school games, in college intramural games, in over-30-league games, in hundreds and hundreds of pickup games wherever we have lived, and in countless private moments of shooting baskets alone, in almost prayerful reverie. Placing our fingertips along the ball's seam. Creating the proper rotation. Offering it up. Missing. Offering it up again. Thinking about parents and proms and girls and school finals and jobs and a girl -- a woman -- and marriage and home and children, keep them safe, and parents, and the dead, and offering it up. Again.
A decade ago, when I learned I had a life-threatening cancer, I took comfort in this form of meditation, just as I had as a boy. Instead of requesting the affections of a girl, or an economic improvement in our challenged household, or the fading of the ghosts that seemed to haunt my father -- always with an attempt to seal the deal by hitting 10 consecutive foul shots -- I prayed to be healed. Please, God, please, I would whisper, then release the spinning ball with chemo-numbed fingers. One. Two. Three, please God.
How, then, can we simply -- stop? How can I? We ask this even though we know that those who are no longer with us asked themselves the same question.
They were just as loyal to the game. We know this as we stretch on the cold hardwood floor, talking about meniscus woes and floating cartilage and knees and hips and backs that are shouting, Enough, already. The inevitability, never considered before, is very much with us now, so we talk past it, discussing the Knicks and the Nets, the Giants and the Jets, the Yankees and the Mets, the athletic accomplishments of our children who, to our mind, do not appreciate as dearly as we do the availability of an open gym. Then we stand, still stiff but calling ourselves loose, the hinged movement of our knees sounding like shifting sand -- and we choose sides.
Another game ends, and disorientation sets in. I am catching my breath in space so familiar to me -- an old Catholic school gym, once used as a church -- and yet, now, so foreign.
The parochial school at St. Joseph's has closed, and the building is being rented to a small charter school. The convent has been sold for condominium use. The throngs of parishioners have thinned. The priest scandals and the tone-deaf response to them, the changes in the liturgical wording, the scale-back of Vatican II reforms, the insistence on a celibate patriarchy -- all these have left me wondering where I'm supposed to be on the court. Where is my position?
In basketball terms, I feel as if I've lost my man.
But I keep seeking communion. Like those older congregants on the other side of the church wall, I dutifully attend an early-morning Sunday service that nourishes me in ways that others might not understand. For now at least, when some of my friends rush out the door to make the 9 o'clock Mass, I stay behind, looking for one more game, looking to get open.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Each Sunday at St. Joseph's in Maplewood, N.J., pickup games take place in what once was the church as Mass is being said on the other side of one wall. (B13)
Players in their 40s and 50s take jump shots with basketballs that, just like the players, nearly always need more air.
A basketball flung in frustration created a hole where a crucifix once hung.
 The gym provides a view of the cross atop the church, and meditations on life. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



864 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Retailers Retreat, a Japanese Chain Sees an Opening

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Many American retailers are cutting back at shopping malls. Chains like Gap Inc., Abercrombie & Fitch, Coldwater Creek and Talbot's say they have too many stores at too many malls. Hundreds of stores are on the chopping block.
Now, that pain is being seen as an opportunity -- for some foreign retailers.
Uniqlo, the Japanese basics brand, is starting aggressive growth plans at shopping malls that are expected to include 20 to 30 new stores a year over the next eight years.
In its first move, Uniqlo, which has three stores in New York City and one opening this fall in downtown San Francisco, has signed a lease at the Garden State Plaza mall in Paramus, N.J. The store will be in a space previously occupied by an Old Navy store. 
Other international retailers, from the low end, like Massimo Dutti and Topshop, to the high end, like the PPR brands Yves Saint Laurent, Bottega Veneta and Balenciaga, are also adding new stores in the United States.
Over all, the retail real estate market is starting to recover from the recession. Rents rose in the first quarter and retail vacancies declined for the first time since 2005 as some companies opened new stores and expanded existing ones, according to the research firm Reis.
''This is a country of shopaholics,'' said Faith Hope Consolo, chairman of the retail group at Douglas Elliman, who is handling inquiries from retailers in Australia, New Zealand and Canada about opening in this country.
Overseas companies are looking to the American market because of relatively easy access to credit, fewer regulations than some other countries, cheaper rents because of the recession and the promise of getting Wall Street's attention, she said. And many shoppers here like the panache of clothing from abroad.
''It's a fickle market here -- the consumer always wants something new,'' Ms. Consolo said.
Uniqlo is drawing particular attention because it has succeeded in selling basic and affordable clothing, a category that American companies like Gap and Old Navy once dominated. But it failed in a previous effort to expand into American shopping malls. In 2006, it closed stores in three malls in New Jersey it had opened in 2005.
This time, company officials said, they have learned from their mistakes -- most notably, a recognition that the Uniqlo (pronounced YOU-nee-klo) brand needed a bigger introduction in the United States. Last time, the retailer leased standard-size mall locations -- about 7,000 square feet each -- that did not distinguish the brand from competitors. The new Garden State Plaza space, by contrast, is 43,000 square feet, and it has external exposure, meaning Uniqlo's signs can be seen from a nearby highway and the mall's parking lot.
''Our brand is still not a household name, so we need a bigger box than some of our competitors,'' said Shin Odake, the chief executive of Uniqlo's United States division.
Well saturated in Japan, Uniqlo is now posting most of its growth overseas. Fast Retailing, the Uniqlo parent company based in Tokyo, said sales in Uniqlo's international division grew 68 percent to 84.8 billion yen ($1.07 billion) in the first half of its fiscal year, from September to February. Profits increased 45 percent to 11.4 billion yen for non-Japan stores in that period.
Uniqlo posted a loss at its United States stores for that period, but analysts say the region is crucial for the company's growth.
''They need to have a competitive positioning in the world's largest market,'' said Masafumi Shoda, an analyst at Nomura Securities, in an e-mail.
Unlike other low-priced international brands, like Zara, H&M and Mango, which rush fashionable items into stores weeks after trends are seen on runways, Uniqlo's clothes are simple. There is ''a strong emphasis on fabrication,'' said Faye Landes, a retail analyst with Consumer Edge Research.
Uniqlo is best known for its solid and striped basics like T-shirts, shorts and cashmere sweaters, available in a wide spectrum of colors. Uniqlo emphasizes high-tech fabric, for example, in a moisture-wicking T-shirt it sells in summer. And prices are low -- T-shirts start at $9.90, and cashmere sweaters at $79.90.
Yasunobu Kyogoku, chief operating officer for Uniqlo's United States division, said the company was able to get prices that low because it did not change its merchandise plans based on the latest fashion fad. Instead, it books factory capacity in advance, and produces garments at a steady pace year-round, rather than rushing to produce trendy items from specialty factories.
''Typically in retail there's a seasonality to the products you sell and therefore a seasonality to factories -- when they're running at full capacity and when they're not,'' Mr. Kyogoku said. ''To be able to balance out, over 365 days a year, full capacity, you're able to create more efficiencies.''
After retreating from its last foray into American malls, Uniqlo took a different approach, opening a store in New York's high-traffic SoHo district in 2006 and adding two more stores in New York last year, on 34th Street and on Fifth Avenue. The stores, filled with spinning mannequins and steel and white decor, serve in part as an advertisement for Uniqlo.
And the company almost quadrupled its spending on advertising in the United States in 2011 versus 2010, to $8.3 million, according to Kantar Media, with ads pushing its prices. With the promotions started, Uniqlo executives said it was time to re-enter malls.
''If you have just another store in a shopping mall, there's no reason for a customer to buy at your store because we are selling clothes, and it is not so much different from the clothes that other people are selling,'' Mr. Odake said. ''So unless the customer knows about your brand or what the company stands for, there is no reason for the customer to shop at your store.''
To hit the company's stated target of $10 billion in sales in the United States by 2020, ''we need to go where the customer is, and in the United States, malls are the premier location where Americans shop,'' Mr. Kyogoku said. The Uniqlo executives declined to discuss specifics about the expansion plans, beyond saying they also included stores in other big American cities. The company is also working on an e-commerce site in the United States, the executives said.
''Even though I think it may be too early to go to mall locations,'' Mr. Shoda, the retail analyst, said, the company ''needs actual trials in there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Uniqlo is drawing particular attention because it has succeeded in selling basic and affordable clothing. (B1)
 The merchandise at the Uniqlo store on Fifth Avenue. The company has plans to open 20 to 30 stores at American malls. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (93%); GAP INC (93%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (54%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (93%); AFT (FRA) (93%); GPS (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



865 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
RACY PAINTING STIRS
DEBATE IN SOUTH AFRICA
South Africa's governing party went to court to try to force an art gallery in Johannesburg to remove a painting that appears to depict South Africa's president, Jacob Zuma, with his genitals exposed. The tussle is the latest battle over free speech in a country where the government has taken increasingly firm steps to squelch critics. PAGE A4
HEBREW CLASSES IN GAZA 
Students in Gaza will soon be able to sign up for a new course called Know Your Enemy, which is a Hebrew language class. It has been nearly two decades since the language was taught in Gaza's public schools. While some see the classes as training for future spies, others have more practical, even mundane goals. Gaza Journal. PAGE A7
National
CHANGES IN HEALTH CARE
SAID TO HAVE MOMENTUM
The health care law is already transforming the way care is delivered, and the changes will continue regardless of how the Supreme Court rules on the mandate, some Democratic Party officials said. PAGE A12
LOCKDOWN AFTER PRISON RIOT
The F.B.I. is investigating what caused as many as 300 inmates at the Adams County Correctional Center in Natchez, Miss., to start a riot that left a guard dead and 20 people injured. PAGE A12
New York
U.S. FILES FRAUD SUIT
AGAINST JOBS AGENCY
Federal prosecutors, claiming that they have found widespread fraud in Mayor Michel R. Bloomberg's much-vaunted job placement program, filed a multimillion-dollar lawsuit against Seedco, a nonprofit agency that was once among New York City's favorite contractors . PAGE A16
A JUNCTION NAMED HAROLD
The Harold Interlocking, a century-old intersection of 14 train tracks in Queens, is where hundreds of trains traveling between Pennsylvania Station and points east and north are sorted each day. The junction plays a central role in the life of the city but is invisible until something goes awry. PAGE A16
Business
JAPANESE CLOTHING CHAIN
PLANS FOR GROWTH IN U.S.
Uniqlo, the Japanese basics brand, is betting on a comeback for the American consumer and is taking advantage of recession-lowered rents with an aggressive growth plan to expand in shopping malls in the United States. PAGE B1
RETURN OF AN ICON FOR FORD
The Ford Motor Company received a second investment-grade rating that allowed the automaker to reclaim assets -- including its iconic blue oval logo -- that it pledged as collateral in a lifesaving loan package in 2006. PAGE B1
Sports
HANDLING OF ASSAULT CASES
UNDER SCRUTINY IN MONTANA
The United States Justice Department is investigating whether the University of Montana and local law enforcement responded adequately to numerous claims of sexual assaults over the last three years, some involving football players. The football coach and the athletic director have been let go, and one player has been arrested. PAGE B16
Arts
'SLEEP NO MORE,'
ENHANCED BY M.I.T. LAB
''Sleep No More,'' the theater event presented in a Chelsea warehouse, lets masked attendees follow an open-ended tale that mashes up ''Macbeth'' with elements of Hitchcock films like ''Rebecca'' and ''Vertigo.'' Dave Itzkoff took part in an experiment to see if this experience could be tweaked technologically by M.I.T. engineers to yield new narratives. PAGE C1
Dining
LAYING DOWN THE RULES
FOR SUMMERTIME DRINKING
Drinking assumes a more casual, easygoing tone in the summer, yet the old seasonal-drink restrictions no longer hold. Toss aside the stodgy, outmoded dogma of summer as white-wine season. Warm-weather drinks should not be determined by their color, but by their weight. The Pour, Eric Asimov. PAGE D1
Obituaries
KATIE BECKETT, 34
She had been hospitalized almost since birth when President Ronald Reagan invoked her case as an example of irrational federal regulation in 1981. PAGE A21
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); INDECENT EXPOSURE (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); RIOTS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TRAINS (68%); ARRESTS (65%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (62%); RETAILERS (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (81%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (81%); F (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (81%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



866 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Cabdrivers Unsure They Will See Benefits of a Fare Increase

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
As he ended his shift on Tuesday at a gas station in Midtown Manhattan, Alderete Faustino, a New York City cabby for 25 years, squinted warily at the receipt that laid out his earnings for the day.
He had made $141 in cash fares, plus another $150 from credit cards, for a total of $291. Not bad for 12 hours of work.
Then, he ticked off his losses. He had paid about $110 to the garage upfront, just to rent his cab. Drivers pay out-of-pocket for gasoline, and it cost $38 to fill up his tank. Another $15.50 went to the state, for a transit tax. 
The grand total: about $127, or $10.58 an hour, which Mr. Faustino deemed his average wage. ''That's more or less what I do,'' he said, sounding a bit resigned.
Cabbies do not make a lot of money in New York. The Taxi and Limousine Commission estimates that drivers earn an average of $130 a day, down from $150 in 2006. Adjust those figures for inflation, and the pay cut comes out to nearly 25 percent over six years.
And even as the city prepares to raise taxi fares by as much as 20 percent, many drivers are skeptical that they will see any benefits.
''Every time they raise it, it's for the garage,'' Mr. Faustino said, as he headed off to collect his day's pay from the dispatcher. ''Everything goes to the garage.''
His skepticism, echoed by several drivers interviewed on Tuesday, is understandable. Almost every time the city raises fares, it also raises the so-called ''lease caps,'' the maximum amount that a fleet can charge a driver to rent a car for a 12-hour shift.
For the driver, higher fares and higher rents can result in little or no net gain. Securing a taxi for the most lucrative time slots -- evenings, from Thursday to Saturday -- can leave a cabby in a $133.77 hole before a single fare has been collected.
That pattern could change this time around, if the Bloomberg administration gets its way. Officials at the Taxi and Limousine Commission, facing a protracted negotiation with the notoriously feisty yellow cab industry, are reluctant to discuss their strategy publicly. But one person with direct knowledge of the city's plans said the commission was reluctant to raise lease rates, saying the industry had not presented a strong case for a change.
The city is also looking at ways to eliminate part or all of a fee on credit card transactions, widely despised by drivers, that allows taxi fleets to collect 5 percent of any fare paid on a card. Some of that money is used to pay credit card companies and vendors; the rest tends to be pocketed by the garage.
''The fee has become a profit center for the fleets,'' said David S. Yassky, the taxi commissioner, in an interview on Tuesday. He described the current fee as ''generous.''
Those who remember ''Taxi,'' the classic television sitcom, may wonder what happened to the bohemian cabby of the 1970s. Back then, garages and drivers split the proceeds down the middle, and shifts were shorter, lasting 8 hours rather than a grueling 12.
The industry has long since shifted to a more feudal system. Drivers pay upfront to rent their cab, and receive no benefits or options for disability payments.
Drivers often face other hidden -- and possibly illegal -- fees, like a tip paid to a garage dispatcher in order to begin a shift sooner. Bhairavi Desai, founder of the New York Taxi Workers' Alliance, said that cabbies could lose another $20 on these charges, and that garages could add a $25 fee if a cab is returned late.
The tight margins of the hack trade can leave cabbies feeling frustrated. ''Sometimes, I don't like it, because I have the potential to lose money,'' said M. D. Islam, a cabby from Queens who has been driving for six months. He often earns less than $100 a day, he said; if his cab breaks down, or he can't find passengers, he may end up in the red.
Still, pay can vary by experience, skill, or just plain luck. Gifty Ofosu, of New Jersey, has driven for more than a decade; she said she could make $200 on a good day, especially if she catches a few trips to the airport.
Many fleet owners, for their part, say they deserve a raise in the lease rates, which have stayed constant since 2004, citing higher costs for insurance, vehicle maintenance, and new technologies mandated by the city.
''Fleets have a tremendous amount of financial obligations and responsibilities,'' said Michael Woloz, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, a fleet owners' group. ''A garage runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It doesn't happen by magic; it's a costly operation and a lot of garages employ 50 or 60 people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



867 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Iran Recalls Its Ambassador From Azerbaijan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
BAKU, Azerbaijan -- Iran has recalled its ambassador from neighboring Azerbaijan, citing a religious insult, in the latest sign of escalating tensions between the countries.
Iranian officials said the envoy, Mohammad B. Bahrami, was summoned to Tehran to discuss recent protests outside the Iranian Embassy in Baku, in which demonstrators were said to have insulted symbols of Islam. Mr. Bahrami left on Monday. 
''He was recalled for consultations,'' an embassy official, Ahmed Nemati, said in a statement. This month three protests were held outside the embassy. Some demonstrators carried pictures of the Iranian supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, including one that showed him with a bare midriff.
In recent months, relations have grown increasingly tense between Azerbaijan, an oil-rich former Soviet republic on the Caspian Sea, and Iran, its southern neighbor.
Iran is under severe pressure by the United States and other Western nations over its nuclear program and facing a new round of economic sanctions. Tehran has complained of Azerbaijan's improving relationship with Israel, which has included purchasing Israeli-made weapons, and Azerbaijan has denied reports that it had agreed to let Israel use military bases on its territory for a possible airstrike on Iran.
Azerbaijan, meanwhile, has accused Iran of plotting terrorist attacks in Baku. Earlier this year, Azerbaijan arrested 22 people and accused them of being terrorist agents working for Iran.
The diplomatic squabble unfolded as Azerbaijan is playing host this week to the hugely popular Eurovision Song Contest. The television spectacle has attracted visitors from around the world, including many Iranians. A spokesman for the Azerbaijan Foreign Ministry, Elman Abdullayev, suggested envy was a factor in the recall of the ambassador.
''Unfortunately, the development of Azerbaijan, holding such a grand event as Eurovision, the arrival of many guests here, are perceived by some with jealousy,'' Mr. Abdullayev said.
Azerbaijan has complained about Iranian jabs at Eurovision in recent weeks, including rumors on some Iranian Web sites that a gay pride march would be held in Baku during Eurovision. Azerbaijan is a mostly Muslim country but has a secular government, while Iran is an Islamic theocracy.
The picketing outside the Iranian Embassy in Baku was apparently a response to anti-Azerbaijan demonstrations in Tehran.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); TERRORISM (65%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) CASPIAN SEA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); AZERBAIJAN (94%); IRAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



868 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Disclosure of Short-Sellers' Bets Would Benefit the Market

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
Just a few questions during a recent conference call cost the nutritional supplements company Herbalife more than $1 billion in stock market value.
Short-sellers - investors betting a stock will go down - had again shown their power in the market. Despite this influence, the securities laws do not require them to disclose trading or positions when talking about a stock.
Herbalife may be an argument in favor of such a requirement. In that instance, David Einhorn, founder and president of Greenlight Capital, was the inquisitor. Mr. Einhorn is known for questioning the financial condition of Lehman Brothers months before its collapse. Since then, he has also successfully taken aim at Green Mountain Coffee Roasters and the St. Joe Company. He is so prominent that he can send shares spiraling down simply by questioning a company, if investors fear he has discovered something wrong. 
Herbalife discovered this on May 1 during what had begun as a routine analyst call about its latest results. Mr. Einhorn emerged on the call and asked a handful of questions, including one about the percentage of the company's sales to consumers who are not distributors, and another asking why Herbalife was no longer disclosing sales broken down by types of distributor.
The questions were fairly innocuous and appeared to be probing the breakdown between distributors and the actual buyers of Herbalife products. Yet soon after Mr. Einhorn's questions, the company's shares tumbled. Investors were assuming he knew something and had placed a big short bet.
Mr. Einhorn, however, did not and has not disclosed whether his firm has any position whatsoever in the stock. Does that make sense when every analyst has to disclose such information?
Such wild gyrations of stocks based on the barest mention by short-sellers revive the debate on rules requiring disclosures of big short positions.
Short-selling provides significant market benefits, including adding liquidity and incentives for price discovery as investors seek to profit from public company problems. The short-seller James Chanos was instrumental in helping point to possible fraud at Enron.
Short-sellers have a right to try to talk a stock down, just as much as other investors can try to talk a stock up. Yet when a public company is under fire, market manipulation is often the cry when there is short-selling. (In short sales, a trader borrows shares to sell, hoping they will fall before buying them back at a profit.)
During the financial crisis, short-sellers came under fierce attack. A ban on shorting was put in place to protect financial stocks.
In the United States, however, the list of companies covered by the ban was so broad that even Ford Motor was on it, not just the core financial firms. A subsequent study has found that the ban reduced market liquidity and, except in the United States with respect to financial stocks, did not work.
Since the financial crisis there has been talk of prohibiting shorting, or regulating the practice further.
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Securities and Exchange Commission to conduct a study on real-time disclosure of shorting. Yet the agency is many months late in publishing this study, and even if it recommends such disclosure, Congress would have to act.
The Dodd-Frank Act also amends the reporting rules to require the S.E.C. to adopt rules requiring the ''aggregate amount'' of shorting of a security to be disclosed on a monthly basis. The Managed Funds Association, a group representing the hedge fund industry, is claiming this does not require reporting of individual positions. The S.E.C. has yet to respond to this position or even taken steps to adopt this requirement.
The events of the last few weeks show that while prohibiting or regulating shorting itself may not be appropriate, we may need more disclosure.
Indeed, two weeks after the Herbalife call with analysts, more questions emerged about shorts and markets.
At the Ira Sohn conference, a gathering of hedge fund investors, speculation was rife that Herbalife would be a focus of a presentation by Mr. Einhorn. Analysts at Caris & Company even lowered their rating on Herbalife to average from a buy in anticipation that Mr. Einhorn would have something negative to say about it.
It was classic Wall Street - buy or sell on speculation, not facts, since Caris did not base the downgrade on anything other than Mr. Einhorn's presence.
But the surprise was that Mr. Einhorn did not mention Herbalife at all. This set off a small rally in Herbalife stock as it shot up almost 17 percent, pushing the company up $800 million in value.
Mr. Einhorn instead directed his attention on Martin Marietta Materials, among other companies. Mr. Einhorn spoke for about four minutes on Martin Marietta, the construction materials company, stating that it has ''lots of problems'' and that its chief executive has a ''degree in megalomania.''
Mr. Einhorn offered no real specifics about these problems or the megalomania, but the comments were enough. Martin Marietta slid 8 percent that day, losing about $300 million in value. Dick's Sporting Goods, another company he mentioned, fell 4 percent.
Once again, the market was trading on speculation, and Mr. Einhorn did not disclose whether he had any position in these companies.
This is a different world than long investing, speculating that stocks will go up. Investors buying stocks are required to disclose when they have a 5 percent or more position in a publicly traded company and funds must disclose any long positions on a quarterly basis to the S.E.C.
But these requirements do not apply to short-sellers. Instead, the market is left to speculate. But even more so in the case of shorting than long positions, disclosure seems to be necessary to prevent manipulation as well as to ensure that the market functions efficiently and can properly assess not only big short bets but cheap talk. Markets, unfortunately, thrive on fear, and such disclosure would tamp this down.
Mr. Einhorn is to some extent a victim of his success. And it may very well be that Mr. Einhorn is right about one or more of those companies and there is something rotten. Mr. Einhorn declined to comment.
I will be the first to say that he should be allowed to short a company, allowing the market to function more efficiently. It may also be that requiring extensive short disclosure may harm companies as investors now see more information about negative bets and are overwhelmed with this information.
But Herbalife has lost almost $3 billion in market value since Mr. Einhorn posed his questions.
The markets would function more smoothly if Mr. Einhorn were required to disclose whether he had a significant short position. This would let people see if he is merely talking or has real money at stake.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); COFFEE (73%)

COMPANY: ST JOE CO (70%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

TICKER: JOE (NYSE) (70%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GMCR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (70%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (70%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (70%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



869 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: At CUNY, Stricter Admissions Bring Ethnic Shift

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA; C .J. Hughes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
More than a decade after the City University of New York ended open admissions to its four-year colleges, a marked shift has occurred at its top institutions as freshman classes now enter with far better academic credentials and also a different demographic mix.
The changes began in 2000, with new minimum requirements for test scores for college admission, continued as academic standards were raised in stages over the years and accelerated sharply with the recent recession, as CUNY's bargain prices beckoned far more applicants.
At the university's five most competitive four-year colleges -- Baruch, Brooklyn, City, Hunter and Queens -- nearly 12 percent of freshmen entering in 2001 had SAT scores of 1,200 or more. In 2007, for the last prerecession class, the figure was up to 16 percent, and by last fall, it had jumped to 26 percent.
At the same time, black representation among first-time freshmen at those colleges dropped, to 10 percent last fall from 17 percent in 2001. Over the same period, the Hispanic share rose slightly for several years, then fell once the recession began, to 18 percent, while the white portion fell slightly, to 35 percent. 
Asians are now entering the top colleges in the greatest numbers, composing 37 percent of those classes, up from 25 percent a decade earlier.
The ethnic changes at CUNY's top colleges confirm the predictions made during the battle over ending open admissions, one of the city's most charged political disputes of the 1990s: Proponents said the colleges would rise in status, while opponents said black and Hispanic enrollment would fall.
''We're not condemning CUNY; we just don't think they've taken into account the long-term effects of what's happening,'' said David R. Jones, the president and chief executive of the Community Service Society of New York, an antipoverty group, which has just completed a study of the changes. ''If you're taking a lower percentage of blacks and Latinos out of high school, you should try to make sure this doesn't continue.''
The CUNY chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, said enrollment changes among first-time freshmen were a concern, but he noted that transfer students had outnumbered first-time freshmen at the five top-tier colleges for the past three years. The racial and ethnic mix has shifted among transfer students, as well, but not as drastically, according to CUNY figures.
Where students end up matters more than where they start, Dr. Goldstein said, adding, ''We are graduating more black and Hispanic students than we ever have before.''
Across the country, the most selective public colleges have been growing more so for decades, with many of them seeing a notable shift in the past few years. The share of entering freshmen who were in the top 10 percent of their high school classes rose to 73 percent last fall from 69 percent in 2007 at the University of Texas at Austin, to 57 percent from 49 percent at Binghamton University and to 80 percent from 76 percent at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, to name a few.
''There is plenty of evidence that our flagship public universities have been growing more selective for 30 years, with a decided uptick in this recession,'' said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers.
Whether there has been a resulting demographic change is unclear, because most colleges have changed the way they record racial data, and in some states, new laws banning affirmative action have influenced enrollment.
With 12 senior colleges, 6 community colleges, several graduate schools and about 260,000 students in degree-granting programs, CUNY is one of the largest systems in the country. Unlike most public and private universities, its admissions are race-blind, based entirely on grades and test scores.
Tuition for the next school year will be $5,430 for a New York State resident who is a full-time student at a four-year college, one of the lowest prices in the country. Considering the charged debate that surrounded the decisions to establish and then to abolish open admissions, the greatest surprise may be how little political noise the results have generated.
For almost 30 years, beginning in 1970, CUNY admitted any high school graduate to at least one of its colleges, though that meant admitting many who needed remedial courses. Enrollment surged, graduation rates dropped, and more high-achieving students went elsewhere.
Pressed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, CUNY's senior colleges stopped accepting students who needed remedial work, and generally required applicants to meet minimum standards for SAT scores and other measures.
Dr. Goldstein said the system's increased use of transfer enrollment had been a success, with those students performing as well at the top-tier colleges as their peers who started there. A typical transfer student does not have good enough high school credentials to win acceptance directly to the most selective colleges, but is admitted after a successful term at a community college or a less-competitive senior college. The ethnic changes at those colleges have been less pronounced than at the top five.
But Lazar Treschan, the director of youth policy at the Community Service Society and an author of the report, said that transfer students typically received one or two years' benefit from a top college, rather than four, and that there were still far too few students making the jump from community colleges to four-year institutions.
''Saying 'we'll let in more black and Hispanic students, but only after they've already had a couple of years of success in college' really skews what we mean by opportunity and diversity,'' he said.
The changes at CUNY mimic, to some extent, changes in the city's top public high schools, which admit students solely on the basis of an entrance exam and have become steadily more Asian and less black in recent years. The shift is evident in the faces at Baruch College in Manhattan, where the enrollment is almost half Asian and about 10 percent black, a regular topic of discussion, said David Mayomi, 33, a black student who studies international business and lives in Brooklyn.
''This is our city, and we represent a large part of the community, but we represent a small percentage of the people here,'' he said, questioning whether the college gave preferential treatment to Asians.
Another student, Joyce Chan, 21, said that when Asian students chose to attend a CUNY college, their parents often pushed for Baruch because of its specialty, business education. A graduate of the Bronx High School of Science whose parents are immigrants, Ms. Chan was initially accepted into Baruch's honors program, which offered her a free computer, an iPod and a travel stipend, in addition to complimentary tuition, she said. But a recent F grade in a math class forced her to withdraw from it.
''Our parents want us to have jobs that are stable,'' said Ms. Chan, who is majoring in public affairs. ''They want us to have jobs that are better than what they have. Business and medicine and law are stable.''
At another four-year college, the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, a number of students said it had not been their first choice of a CUNY campus.
''It was actually, like, my third,'' said Brian Mercedes, 20, a junior from Manhattan who is studying criminal justice. He said he was one of several students he knew in high school who wanted to go to Baruch but did not get in.
Students at Baruch and John Jay said they had been warned in high school that CUNY colleges, particularly the top tier, had become more selective.
''The SAT scores for all of these schools are going up, but I was still pretty surprised I didn't get into Hunter,'' said Charles Cooper, 19, who is from Manhattan and is an economics major at John Jay. He said he might transfer to a more selective college.
He said he had been accepted to several private colleges, but ''this is the best deal out there, and who wants to take out loans at our age?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The new demographics at the City University of New York's top colleges are evident at Baruch
its enrollment is almost half Asian (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) CHARTS: Different Faces at CUNY: The end of open admissions in 2000 and the recent recession have led to significant shifts in competitiveness and demographics at the City University of New York's top five four-year colleges.
Test scores: There are more freshmen with high SAT scores, and fewer with scores below 1,000.
 Demographics: More than one-third of freshmen are Asian. Other groups, particularly blacks, have lost ground (Source: City University of New York enrollment figures for Baruch, Brooklyn, City, Hunter and Queens Colleges) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); RANKINGS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); ETHNICITY (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



870 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Optimistic Day on Wall St. Weakens in Last Hour

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
Stocks erased gains in the final hour of trading on Tuesday as concern that Greece would exit the euro and another decline in Facebook shares overshadowed economic optimism.
Commodity and technology shares in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell, while financial companies gained. Facebook shares slumped 8.9 percent, bringing their two-day slide to 19 percent. A gauge of home builders in S.& P. indexes rose 1.9 percent amid a better-than-estimated housing report. Best Buy stock rallied 1.6 percent after the company reported first-quarter profit that exceeded estimates. Dell stock tumbled 12 percent in after-hours trading after the company revenue forecast missed analysts' projections.
The S.& P. 500 rose 0.64 point, or 0.05, percent to 1,316.63. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 1.67 points, or 0.01 percent, to 12,502.81. The Nasdaq composite average fell 8.13 points, or 0.29 percent, to 2,839.08. 
The day had started with modest gains until Dow Jones reported that Lucas Papademos, the former prime minister of Greece, said the nation was considering preparations to leave the shared currency. European Union leaders are planning to gather in Brussels on Wednesday to discuss how to revive growth. Equities rallied earlier on Tuesday as sales of existing homes in the United States rose in April while investors speculated that China and Europe would stimulate growth.
The S.& P. 500 is now down as much as 8.7 percent from an almost four-year high in April. Still, the benchmark gauge is up 4.7 percent for 2012, lifted by strong economic and corporate reports. About 70 percent of the S.& P. 500 companies that have reported first-quarter results have topped analysts' estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Led by Facebook and Dell, technology shares were dragged lower on Tuesday. Shares in Facebook, which raised $16 billion in an initial public offering last week at $38 a share, fell to $31.
Dell shares slumped at least 12 percent after the close of regular trading. Dell, the world's third-largest personal computer maker after Hewlett-Packard and Lenovo, lost share in the global PC market in the first three months of the year, according to the market researcher Gartner.
Home builders rallied as PulteGroup shares advanced 2.5 percent to $9.08, while Lennar stock rose 2.2 percent to $27.61. A measure of diversified financial shares had the biggest gain among 24 groups in the S.& P. 500, climbing 1.4 percent. The KBW Bank Index rose 1.1 percent as 22 of its 24 stocks advanced.
JPMorgan Chase stock jumped 4.6 percent to $34.01, rebounding from a 20 percent plunge following the May 10 disclosure that it has lost at least $2 billion in trading. Best Buy shares rose 1.6 percent to $18.46. The retailer lured customers with discounts on smartphones. Less demand for TVs and notebook computers reduced comparable-store sales in the quarter by 5.3 percent.
Stock in Urban Outfitters climbed 7.4 percent, the biggest gain in the S.& P. 500, to $28.10. The retailer, which rehired its co-founder, Richard Hayne, as chief executive this year, reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts' estimates on record sales.
Ralph Lauren shares added 2.7 percent to $150.27. The company reported profit that beat analysts' estimates, helped by sales gains at its own shops and department stores.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 10/32, to 99 24/32, and the yield rose to 1.78 percent from 1.74 percent late Monday.
Online Correction: May 22, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article said Facebook stock was down 17 percent on Tuesday. It was actually off 17 percent from its initial public offering price on Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); COMPUTER MAKERS (70%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); PULTEGROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (51%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (92%); GREECE (88%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



871 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: The Modest Worth Of Big Banks

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; ;Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
What can we afford to do about the financial industry?
Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase would have us believe that regulators' attempts to clip the wings of financial companies are about as misguided as trying to curb spam by shutting down the Internet. To most Americans, a financial crisis that lopped $19.2 trillion off household wealth and produced the deepest recession since the 1930s may be reason enough to limit what financial institutions can do. Andrew G. Haldane, executive director for financial stability at the Bank of England, estimates that the crisis wiped out one to 3.5 years' worth of the world's economic output, in present value.
Bankers, however, still hold dear to the argument that financial innovation has driven prosperity over the last 50 years. In their view, new techniques -- including the credit-default swaps and mortgage-backed securities at the center of the financial crisis -- improved the industry's ability to understand risk and distribute it among a more diverse group of investors, making credit more widely available. Tying the hands of finance in the name of risk reduction would, they contend, impose incalculable costs on society as a whole. 
This view may seem out of place a couple of weeks after JPMorgan admitted it lost $2 billion, maybe $3 billion, on a bad bet on the price of corporate debt. Still, it deserves investigation: how much economic damage would be inflicted by limiting what financial leviathans can do? Put differently, what has our high-tech financial industry really done for the rest of us of late?
It appears that the answer is less than Mr. Dimon would have us believe.
Part of the problem is measuring what the financial industry does. It manages our savings, runs the payment system, offers financial advice, and lends to businesses and consumers. This is valuable. Effective credit allocation increases productivity. Performing these services requires banks to bear risk. For instance, banks use deposits that we can withdraw at a moment's notice to finance long-term loans.
It is easy, however, to overstate what this is worth. Value added by the financial industry, its direct contribution to the economy, topped $1.2 trillion in 2011, according to government statistics. That's 8.3 percent of gross domestic product, double its share of three decades ago. To paraphrase Goldman Sachs's Lloyd C. Blankfein, this looks like God's work on steroids.
But the measure is hopelessly flawed. Because banks' output is measured by the interest they charge for credit, their contribution to the economy appears to increase when they take bigger risks at higher yields. By this measure, your Uncle Fred's session at the slots in Vegas should count as G.D.P. Banks' fast-growing contribution to the economy is an illusion, the mechanical result of a huge expansion in the risks they decided to take.
Banks borrowed hand over fist to finance their lending, juicing it with high-tech products and parking much of it in subsidiaries like special-purpose vehicles to evade legal limits on leverage. According to Mr. Haldane, at the peak of the financial bubble in 2008 large complex financial institutions in the United States (a group that includes JPMorgan) held assets amounting to 50 times their capital, on average. This means that for every $50 dollars in investment, they borrowed $49.
All this credit was great for big banks -- whose return on equity rose in tandem with their leverage. In 1989, the chief executives of the seven biggest banks in the country made about 100 times the income of the typical American household, on average. On the eve of the crisis in 2007, they made more than 500 times the median.
But the lending was of dubious value to the rest of us. Economists know there is a point after which more lending stops helping and starts hurting growth. One study puts it at about 110 percent of gross domestic product. On the eve of the crisis, credit to the private sector in the United States reached 213 percent of G.D.P., up from 96 percent in 1982. And all we got was a mass of busted residential mortgages.
Banks didn't just overdo the credit. A lot of high-tech finance just moves money around without increasing the size of the pie. High-speed trading may increase bankers' fees, but its economic benefits are dubious. Financial technology allows banks to operate with less capital than regulators think prudent. And it helps firms avoid taxes. Rather than increase transparency and understanding, financial innovations like mortgage-backed securities and credit-default swaps cloud where the real risks are.
This is not to say that finance is useless. But there is no evidence that we need a financial industry of the huge size and complexity we have.
The economics suggest that big banks are less efficient at credit creation than smaller ones. And there is no evidence that the simpler financial system we had from the 1940s through the 1970s restrained growth. In fact, for all its innovation, the financial industry of today is less efficient than it was in the age of the railway, according to research by Thomas Philippon at New York University. That is, it charges the rest of society more for financial intermediation than it did 130 years ago.
Considering the evidence, regulators could at the very least remove the taxpayer subsidy that has paved the road for banks to become so big.
The knowledge that no government would ever allow a Citigroup or a JPMorgan to fail amounts to an enormous subsidy. It reduces the cost of capital of the biggest banks and gives them an edge over smaller rivals whose bankruptcy would not convulse the economy.
The subsidy to the world's top 22 banks topped $1.2 trillion a year between 2007 and 2010, according to one study. It adds nothing to economic well being. But it provides an incentive for banks to bulk up: in 2008 three banks held some 40 percent of all the assets in the banking system, up from 10 percent in the early 1990s. And the system has become more concentrated since then.
Regulators are proposing two broad ways of curbing our megabanks. One is the Dodd-Frank financial reform's attempt to forbid financial institutions from doing certain risky things. The Volcker Rule portion of the reform, for instance, would bar commercial banks, which take deposits from the public and are formally insured by taxpayers, from trading securities for their own account. Dodd-Frank forbids big commercial banks from investing more than 3 percent of their assets in hedge funds.
The other is to require banks and some other big financial institutions to raise a lot of capital to ensure they can endure severe shocks. If a bank borrows $9 to invest $10, it can lose at most $1 before going bust. If it only borrows $5 to make the $10 investment, it obviously can lose more. Banks with more capital will be more careful, because they have more skin in the game. They will have less incentive to grow to raise profitability.
Other options could be considered. Some people want to restore limits imposed in the 1930s and removed in the 1980s and 1990s, which barred commercial banks from engaging in investment banking activities. A more direct way to end the taxpayer subsidy would be to put a cap on the size of financial institutions, so we could afford to let them go bankrupt without risking the world. As the Bank of England head Mervyn King once said: ''If banks are thought to be too big to fail, then they are too big.'' JPMorgan today has about four times the assets of Lehman Brothers when it failed.
Bankers have lobbied furiously against these restrictions. Mr. Dimon said new global capital requirements negotiated in Basel, Switzerland, are ''anti-American.'' The Institute for International Finance -- a lobby group for banks -- said the restrictions would destroy 7.5 million jobs by 2015.
But what would really hurt the economy would be to let the restrictions be lobbied away. The capital requirements have been heavily diluted from what regulators first proposed, and banks still oppose them. Banks also demand enormous loopholes in the yet-to-be-completed Volcker Rule, proposed limits on derivatives trading and other restrictions.
Big banks' steadfast opposition to the rules is understandable. If executed properly, the rules could cost them billions in foregone profit. For the rest of society, the benefits appear to outweigh the costs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A JPMorgan Chase bank in Manhattan. The institution has resisted attempts to impose more regulations on the industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARDO MUNOZ/REUTERS)
 Andrew G. Haldane, a director at the Bank of England. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); STATISTICS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (78%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



872 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: The Benefit Is Mutual From China's Private Link to the Treasury's Auctions

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The revelation that China is the sole country that can bid on and buy debt directly from the United States Treasury, rather than through a financial intermediary, has raised concerns that the Obama administration is giving a secret, sweetheart deal to its biggest creditor.
But experts said that the arrangement was probably beneficial to both parties, and was a product of changing trends in the market for Treasury debt as much as the deep economic ties between the two countries. 
Recently, more and more big buyers of Treasury debt -- large pension funds, mutual funds, broker-dealers and money managers -- have chosen to bypass the primary dealers on Wall Street and bid for themselves. Indeed, at a Treasury auction on Tuesday, direct bidders bought about 9 percent of the $35 billion in two-year notes for sale.
''There's just no secret about direct bidding,'' said a former Treasury official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because his current employer has not authorized him to speak to the press. ''It has, very publicly, become more and more popular over the years. And there is no discrimination against central banks. If any other country wanted to do this, they could.''
No other central bank has done so, but experts said that countries that make major bond purchases, like Japan, Singapore and Brazil, might choose to bid directly in the future.
China, which holds more than $1.1 trillion of American debt, has been able to bid on Treasury bonds directly since last June, as first reported by Reuters. It is the only country that can do so, a Treasury official confirmed. The Chinese Embassy in Washington declined to comment.
Such direct bidding would allow China to obscure potentially valuable information on its appetite for bonds from Wall Street. Foreign central banks customarily buy debt through primary dealers, specially designated major financial institutions, including Barclays and Goldman Sachs, that bid for their clients at Treasury auctions.
The primary dealers do not charge commissions to make bids for foreign central banks, like the People's Bank of China. But they do gain access to information foreign governments may prefer that they do not have.
The news about the arrangement raised questions about whether the Treasury had given China special status among the dozens of countries that routinely buy American bonds.
''That Treasury wouldn't want to put one purchaser over position of other purchasers -- that seems obvious,'' said Nicholas R. Lardy of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
He also said that China had in the past used a number of techniques to make its positions less obvious. ''China has plenty of ability to obscure its purchases when going through primary dealers,'' he said. ''That's why we never know on a month-to-month basis whether its purchases are going up or down.''
But the Treasury Department has no restrictions on what entities are permitted to bid directly. ''Any entity or individual may bid directly as long as the entity or individual has made all the necessary arrangements'' for access to the auction system and for payment and delivery of the debt, a department guideline reads.
Experts also said that China's move spoke to the close economic relationship with the United States: China is the biggest offshore holder of American government debt, and the United States the single biggest national market for Chinese exports.
''If they made a special deal for China which they didn't offer to other governments, then I think they have a problem,'' said Edwin M. Truman, former international affairs chief at the Treasury.
But, he said: ''If you're a debt manager, it helps you in trying to manage your auctions to deal directly with a large player rather than indirectly. That is the case for treating China specially.''
Eswar S. Prasad, a former head of the China division of the International Monetary Fund, said, ''The reality is that China's holdings of U.S. treasuries reflect the symbiotic relationship between the two countries, rather than leverage that either one has over the other.
''For the United States, the notion of being dependent on China to help finance its budget deficits creates justifiable anxiety,'' said Mr. Prasad, now a professor at Cornell. ''On the flip side, the domestic political narrative in China that the fruits of its workers' labor are being used to finance U.S. profligacy is an uncomfortable one for China's leadership.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner with a Chinese official, Li Keqiang. China has direct access to United States debt markets. (POOL PHOTO BY JASON LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%); LI KEQIANG (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



873 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Economy Could Tip Back Into Recession on Washington Impasse, Budget Office Says

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The economy could relapse into a recession if President Obama and Congress remain at an impasse and allow several big tax increases and spending cuts to take effect at the start of 2013, the Congressional Budget Office reported on Tuesday. 
The nonpartisan budget office analyzed the impact of what has come to be called the year-end fiscal cliff. Largely by coincidence, several big tax cuts, including those from the Bush era, will expire as deep across-the-board spending cuts take effect. Many economists say the jolt of tax increases and spending cuts would shock the economy after four years of stimulus measures.
In the first half of 2013, the economy would contract at an annual rate of 1.3 percent, the report concluded, instead of growing by a similar rate. Slow growth would resume in the second half, it said.
''Such a contraction in output in the first half of 2013 would probably be judged to be a recession,'' the report said.
Avoiding that danger in the short run, by extending tax cuts and repealing automatic spending cuts, would hold its own economic perils for the long term by adding to annual deficits, the budget office said. It suggested a combination of higher deficits in the short term with adoption of tax and spending policies meant to gradually reduce annual deficits later in the decade.
The budget office estimated that the tax and spending changes ahead would slash the deficit from the 2012 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, through the 2013 fiscal year by $607 billion, or 4 percent of the gross domestic product -- $560 billion after accounting for higher unemployment compensation costs and lower tax collections from individuals and businesses because of the slow economy.
Among the changes that will take effect if the White House and Congress do not act:
The Bush-era tax rates will expire on Dec. 31. Republicans want to make them permanent, which would reduce tax receipts by more than $1 trillion over a decade, while Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats insist that for the wealthiest taxpayers the rates should return to the higher levels of the Clinton era.
Millions of middle-income taxpayers will have to pay the alternative minimum tax -- which was intended only for the richest Americans -- when they file their returns next year.
A temporary two percentage point cut in Americans' payroll taxes, effective in 2011 and 2012, will end on Dec. 31.
Automatic cuts of $1.2 trillion will be made, half in domestic programs and half in the military, because the president and Congress did not agree to a 10-year deficit cutting package last year.
Reimbursements to doctors who treat Medicare patients will be cut significantly, taxes will increase for wealthy taxpayers to help pay for health insurance for more Americans and temporary business tax cuts, part of stimulus measures, will expire.
Adding to the fiscal hazards ahead, the nation's debt limit must be raised early next year, according to the Treasury Department. A repeat of last year's damaging deadlock is threatened because Republicans again are demanding domestic spending cuts equal to the amount of the increase in the debt ceiling. But Democrats say further deficit reduction must include higher tax rates for the wealthy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); CORPORATE TAX (63%); MEDICARE (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



874 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Prized Logo Is Returned To Ford

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The blue oval is back home.
The Ford Motor Company received a second investment-grade rating on Tuesday, allowing the automaker to reclaim assets -- including the iconic logo -- that it pledged as collateral in a lifesaving loan package in 2006. 
Moody's Investors Service upgraded Ford because of what it described as its strong position in North America and overall financial health. Fitch Ratings made a similar upgrade last month.
Ford put up its logo, headquarters, factories and other assets to qualify for $23.5 billion in loans that helped it survive the recession without needing a government bailout like General Motors and Chrysler. Under the terms of the loan package, Ford had to earn investment-grade ratings from two ratings agencies to get its assets back.
The ratings will help lower Ford's borrowing costs in the future. The more profound impact, however, will be felt on morale at Ford, the nation's second-biggest auto company.
The company never lost the right to use the insignia on its cars and trucks. But its formal return to the company signals an important milestone in Ford's turnaround.
Getting the blue oval back was both a relief and a validation of the comeback, Ford's chairman, William C. Ford Jr., said Tuesday.
''We weren't just pledging our assets,'' Mr. Ford said in a conference call with reporters.
''We were pledging our heritage.''
Ford was viewed as the shakiest of the Detroit automakers when it made its big borrowing in the fall of 2006, soon after Mr. Ford wooed Alan R. Mulally from the aviation industry to become the company's chief executive.
Under Mr. Mulally's guidance, the company sold brands, streamlined operations and forced its international divisions to work more closely on new models with North American personnel.
The result has been steady improvement in sales, product quality and profitability. Ford last month reported first-quarter net income of $1.4 billion and its 11th consecutive quarterly operating profit.
Mr. Mulally called the ratings upgrade a significant event and proof that the company's ''One Ford'' strategy was working.
But he gave no indication that the event would affect his retirement plans.
''It does not change any of my plans to continue to serve this great corporation,'' said Mr. Mulally, who is 66.
Ford has paid back about $21 billion of the money it borrowed in 2006. It still has $13.7 billion in debt related to auto operations that it plans to reduce to $10 billion by mid-decade.
Moody's said its decision to upgrade Ford was primarily because of the reduction in its critical break-even level in North America. In 2009, Ford needed to ship 3.4 million vehicles to break even, the agency said. That figure is now 1.8 million.
''This sound North American business model is further supported by a product portfolio that is increasingly competitive with that of Asian automakers,'' Moody's said in a statement.
The ratings agency pointed out that Ford still faced challenges from its exposure to the depressed European auto market and expansion of operations in Asia, particularly China, where it trails rivals like General Motors, Volkswagen and Toyota.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (B1)
 Alan Mulally, left, Ford's chief executive, with William C. Ford Jr., the company's chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RON SOLIMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



875 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Leader of '76 Insurgency Is Now a Target of One

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY -- A conservative firebrand identifying himself as a nonpolitician denounces the economic and moral decay of a liberal agenda run amok in Washington, and urges voters to boot out a crusty incumbent who has fallen in love with his own reflection. Sounds like Tea Party 101, right?
Now overlay that image with plaid leisure suits and shaggy sideburns, and a different firebrand emerges in a much different time: Senator Orrin G. Hatch.
In 1976, in his first Senate race, Mr. Hatch led a one-man conservative uprising in Utah and helped shape the very idea of the insurgent candidacy in modern politics. Now he is the latest Washington veteran hoping to fend off the fate that took down Senator Richard G. Lugar in a Tea Party challenge in Indiana this month, and upended the Senate race in Nebraska with Deb Fischer's Tea Party-tinctured victory over the Republicans' handpicked candidate. 
That Mr. Hatch finds himself in this position at all makes for a strange -- others might say just -- plot twist of history. Mr. Hatch, now 78, was a complete unknown six months before his first election. Then in a bolt of energy and rhetorical swordsmanship against his opponents, he wrested the United States Senate nomination from his own party's establishment candidate and went on to beat a well-financed three-term Democratic incumbent.
Even at the time, his rise was seen as a signal flare of something completely new. In the American West, Democrats, who had been electable in significant numbers through the 1950s, '60s and '70s, even in Utah, were heading for a generation in the dustbin. With Mr. Hatch -- and only a few years later, to even greater effect, Ronald Reagan -- leaping from the trenches, Democrats here still have not fully recovered.
Now Mr. Hatch is facing his first primary challenge since that pivotal first election 36 years ago, and a little-known conservative former state senator, Dan Liljenquist, is studying everything Mr. Hatch did and said back then, trying to use Mr. Hatch's own '70s show against him in next month's party vote.
The result is a closely watched, and for many Republicans here, deeply emotional contest that is raising profound questions about whether Mr. Hatch is still the man they have loved long and well, or whether he was right back then when he said voters should throw out the bums if they hang on too long.
''I'm torn,'' said Richard McMillan, 73, a retired high school history teacher who said he had voted loyally for Mr. Hatch every six years and now is not sure what to do. ''I don't dislike Hatch, but I kind of wish he'd go away gracefully and we could all applaud.''
Mr. Hatch, for his part, in asking Utahns for what he has said would be a final, seventh term, denies that anything now feels remotely like 1976. ''It's quite a bit different,'' he said in an interview. ''I ran against a Democrat,'' he added. ''I would never run against another Republican.''
But in getting to the November election and the Republican nomination in 1976, Mr. Hatch did vanquish a Republican primary opponent who was better known and widely favored to win, and Mr. Liljenquist, 37, in facing what he admits are uphill odds, said that that is the race to study. In heavily Republican Utah, the party's nomination, decided by primary voters, is the crucial contest since Democrats are so deeply outnumbered.
Mr. Liljenquist (pronounced LILian-quist) said in an interview: ''When we look at 1976, there are a lot of parallels. You have a country that was reeling from threats around the world. That's the same case now, and the economy, too, wasn't going particularly well.''
A surge of electricity was pouring into conservative ranks as well in 1976, he added -- not unlike the Tea Party movement today -- partly in reaction to the liberal post-Watergate end-zone dance by the Democrats, whose fortunes rose after President Richard M. Nixon's resignation in 1974. This year, a Tea Party-affiliated group called Freedom Works has backed Mr. Liljenquist.
''Senator Hatch rode a wave of discontent with the establishment people -- people who had been there years and years and were part of the system, and then after 36 years he has become the system,'' said Mr. Liljenquist, who was in diapers when Mr. Hatch took office.
But to many Utahns, even some Democrats and independents who said they would never vote for him, Mr. Hatch is almost an institution. Through his seniority, longevity and impact on the state -- and the campaign's message that if Republicans take control of the Senate, he will become chairman of the powerful Senate Finance Committee -- Mr. Hatch has become, in a way, bigger than party or ideology.
''A vote for Hatch is a vote for Utah,'' said Matt Tyler, 45, a bank asset liability officer in Salt Lake City, who was on his lunch hour on a recent afternoon. Mr. Tyler said he leaned more toward the Democrats and would probably not vote for either Mr. Hatch or Mr. Liljenquist in November. But since a Republican is almost certain to win the Senate seat, he said, it should be Mr. Hatch because of his clout.
Mr. Hatch has also refused to be a sitting duck. Through months of intensive groundwork before last month's state party convention, his campaign staff groomed and recruited party delegates, and back-bench supporters of those delegates, aiming to head off the challenge he knew was coming. The effort, though not successful enough to avoid a primary, created a bank of about 70,000 likely Hatch votes, said the campaign's manager, Dave Hansen. That number, Mr. Hansen said, is about half the total, from a standing start on the day after the convention, needed to win based on assumptions of likely turnout.
The Hatch campaign has also agreed to only one debate before the June 26 primary, on a local radio talk show, a fact that Mr. Liljenquist is using in a new television ad to argue that Mr. Hatch is hiding in plain sight.
What was wrought in the '70s in Utah -- now seen by historians as one of the first breaking waves in what became the Republican tide of the Reagan era -- is now simply the background of political life in Utah, unquestioned because so many residents have never known anything else.
But it was Mr. Hatch and his imitators, historians say, who helped forge that system. In the State Legislature, Democrats who controlled the House and Senate in the mid-'70s have now been in the minority since the era of hip-hugging disco pants. The last Democrat to represent Utah in the Senate was the man Mr. Hatch defeated, Frank Moss.
Mr. Hatch's fight this year, facing a threat in a primary rather than the general election in November, is a measure of how much the state has become a de facto one-party system, historians say, with the spoils of power fought over not between Democrats and Republicans, but between Republicans of varying conservative stripe.
''That's how far to the right Utah has turned,'' said W. Paul Reeve, an associate professor of history at the University of Utah.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Orrin G. Hatch, 78, left, is facing a challenge in the Utah Republican primary from Dan Liljenquist, 37, foreground. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUD BURKETT/THE SPECTRUM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, left, Republican of Utah, in 1978 during his first Senate term, with Senator Bob Dole of Kansas. Below, Mr. Hatch, at left, is seeking what he says would be his final term. Dan Liljenquist, at right, who is trying to unseat him in part by studying his first Senate campaign, says, ''When we look at 1976, there are a lot of parallels.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES W. HARRITY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
 LAURA SEITZ/DESERET NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (78%); HISTORY (71%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (92%); DEB FISCHER (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK LUGAR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (90%) UTAH, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



876 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Gains in Health System Seen as Lasting by Some

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The new health care law is already transforming the way care is delivered, and the changes will continue regardless of how the Supreme Court rules on the mandate for most Americans to carry health insurance, a Democratic senator and an Obama administration official said Tuesday.
The comments by the senator, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, and the official, Dr. Richard J. Gilfillan, director of the federal Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, indicated how Democrats were preparing for a Supreme Court ruling on the 2010 law. The law, which President Obama pushed through Congress on a party-line vote, promises to be a salient issue in elections for the White House and Congress this year. 
Mr. Whitehouse said ''there is no link, no link whatsoever,'' between the insurance mandate and the work of Dr. Gilfillan's agency, which promotes innovations in Medicare and Medicaid.
''The delivery system reforms will survive, and we should not be stalling and dawdling because we are anxious about what the court will do,'' Mr. Whitehouse said at a forum held by the Center for American Progress, a research and advocacy group with close ties to the White House. ''We don't have that luxury, and I don't think it's a genuine risk.''
Dr. Gilfillan said, ''We are confident that the law will be upheld'' by the court. But in any event, he said, ''the marketplace is boiling with new ideas, new opportunities,'' and the private sector is seizing the opportunities.
Increasingly, Dr. Gilfillan said, private insurers are embracing ideas that Congress authorized for Medicare, like coordinating care, rewarding providers who deliver superior care and penalizing those who subject patients to needless risks.
As an example, Dr. Gilfillan cited a recent announcement by Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Iowa and the Iowa Health System that they would team up to form an accountable care organization, intended to coordinate care and hold down costs. This collaboration is not for Medicare patients, but for 25,000 people with group or individual coverage provided by Wellmark.
Dr. Gilfillan and Senator Whitehouse said other changes in the delivery and financing of health care were gaining momentum. These include paying a fixed amount to doctors and hospitals for a bundle of services, rather than a separate fee for each service; designating a ''medical home'' with a primary care doctor to coordinate services for each patient; and imposing financial penalties on hospitals with large numbers of patients who are readmitted within a few weeks after they are discharged.
Mr. Whitehouse said these efforts could be contributing to a slowdown in the growth of health spending, first observed during the recent recession.
Dr. Gilfillan said ''there is too much work going on for it not to be having some effect.''
But, recalling how the growth of health costs seemed to slow when President Bill Clinton tried to remake the health care system, Dr. Gilfillan said: ''We saw this in the 1990s, a pause and then bang up again. We don't want to relax.''
Republicans said the changes described by Dr. Gilfillan could speed the consolidation of hospitals, physician groups and other health care providers, increasing their ability to charge higher prices to patients and insurers.
The new law ''scrambles the economics of America's health care system in a way that reduces competition,'' said Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. He and other Republicans cited that as a reason for trying to repeal the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MEDICAID (58%)

COMPANY: WELLMARK INC (85%); IOWA HEALTH SYSTEM INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (85%)

PERSON: SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



877 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: After Paul Falters, Backers Push Agenda in Party and Other Races

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Armed with an inherited fortune and a devotion to Ron Paul, John Ramsey, a 21-year-old college student from Nacogdoches, Tex., plunged into a little-watched Republican House primary in Northern Kentucky this spring to promote his version of freedom.
More than $560,000 later, Mr. Ramsey's chosen standard-bearer, Thomas H. Massie, a Republican, cruised to victory Tuesday in the race to select a successor to Representative Geoff Davis, a Republican who is retiring. 
The saturation advertising campaign waged by Mr. Ramsey's ''super PAC,'' Liberty for All, may be the most visible manifestation of a phenomenon catching the attention of Republicans from Maine to Nevada.
With their favorite having lost the nomination for president, Mr. Paul's dedicated band of youthful supporters are setting their sights down-ballot and swarming lightly guarded Republican redoubts like state party conventions in an attempt to infiltrate the top echelons of the party.
''Karl Rove's fear-and-smear-style Republicans are going to wake up at the end of the year and realize we are now in control of the Republican Party,'' said Preston Bates, a Democrat-turned-Paulite who is running Liberty for All for Mr. Ramsey.
In Minnesota, Paulites stormed the Republican gathering in St. Cloud last weekend, bumping aside two conventional Republican candidates to choose one of their own, Kurt P. Bills, a high school economics teacher, to challenge Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat, this fall.
Backers of Mr. Paul, a Republican congressman from Texas, crashed Republican conventions in Iowa, Maine, Minnesota and Nevada in recent weeks, snatching up the lion's share of delegate slots for the Republican National Convention in Tampa this August, a potential headache for the national party and its presumptive nominee, Mitt Romney.
And Paulite candidates for Congress are sprouting up from Florida to Virginia to Colorado, challenging sitting Republicans and preaching the gospel of radically smaller government, an end to the Federal Reserve, restraints on Bush-era antiterrorism laws and a pullback from foreign military adventures.
''I'd call it a strict constitutional approach,'' said Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky and Ron Paul's son. ''And I think it's spreading.''
Republican Party officials say they are in daily contact with Representative Paul, in a delicate effort to harness the energy around him without inciting his supporters. ''We have had open dialogue with Dr. Paul and his campaign to ensure we are all focused on winning in November,'' said Sean Spicer, the Republican National Committee's communications director.
Mr. Ramsey said that other Paul supporters had brought the Kentucky race to his attention and that he would spend whatever it takes ''to get this country moving in a freer direction.'' ''How much money would you spend for freedom?'' he asked Tuesday, after buying airtime from Lexington to Louisville with money he inherited from his grandfather in 2010 as he was being pulled into the libertarian orbit of Mr. Paul.
He met Mr. Bates on the Paul campaign, and in March they incorporated Liberty for All with nearly $1 million of Mr. Ramsey's money. More than half of it went into Kentucky's Fourth District in a whoosh of advertising. The impact has been significant.
Mr. Massie, the Lewis County judge executive and an engineer trained at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said he opened the seven-way Republican primary with a lead. But he lost it after Mr. Davis and former Senator Jim Bunning backed one of his rivals, Alecia Webb-Edgington. Then small advertising buys from two other candidates pummeled him with negative accusations.
The sprawling Fourth District of Kentucky presents competitors with a challenge. To reach all its voters, a candidate must advertise in four media markets in Kentucky and Ohio. Mr. Massie acknowledged that he could not do that, but that Liberty for All could. Soon, the advertising for his rivals was drowned out by attacks on his behalf.
''They owned the airwaves, everything from the Food Channel to Court TV,'' he said of the PAC.
The Ramsey money does not have a clear path from Kentucky, but Liberty for All appears to have a taste for the obscure. Its next candidate is Michael D. Cargill, a gay, black gun store owner running for constable in Travis County, Tex.
But the political action committee will have money to spend. Mr. Ramsey said that between his wallet and a fund-raising push, the PAC expected to have $10 million this summer.
As they were nominating Mr. Bills at the Minnesota Republican Convention, the Paul forces also seized 12 of the state's 13 Republican National Convention delegate slots. In Maine, they took 21 of the 24 slots. In Nevada, they grabbed 22 of the 28.
The strategy of crashing state conventions has secured Mr. Paul large slates of delegates in Alaska, Colorado, Iowa, Louisiana and Missouri, as well.
Such delegates are not considered a threat to the Romney nomination. But they could be vocal advocates for Mr. Paul's libertarian views on issues like the war in Afghanistan, the Patriot Act and terrorist detainee policies, which overlap some with Tea Party views but do not mirror them.
And lightly regarded Paulites running for Congress could become forces with the right amount of money. Tisha Casida, an independent in Colorado, is running against Representative Scott Tipton. Calen Fretts is chipping away at Representative Jeff Miller in Florida's Panhandle, and Karen Kwiatkowski is challenging Representative Robert W. Goodlatte in Virginia.
''I think there's a great movement going on in this country,'' said Ms. Casida, who said she was pulled into politics by Mr. Paul's message and the red tape she faced trying to open a local farmer's market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of Representative Ron Paul, above, are backing the candidacies of Kurt P. Bills, below left, for the Senate in Minnesota, and Thomas H. Massie for a House seat from Kentucky. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GENEVIEVE ROSS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JAMES CRISP/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (91%); THOMAS MASSIE (90%); MITT ROMNEY (77%); GEOFF DAVIS (59%); RAND PAUL (58%); KARL ROVE (57%); AMY KLOBUCHAR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (68%) KENTUCKY, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



878 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Big Day for Entrepreneur Who Promises More

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -- He does not have the name recognition of some other space entrepreneurs, people like Richard Branson, the founder of the Virgin empire, or Paul Allen of Microsoft fame, or Jeff Bezos, the Amazon.com billionaire.
That will probably change if things keep going his way. Elon Musk, a computer prodigy and serial entrepreneur whose ambitions include solving the world's energy needs and colonizing the solar system, was the man of the hour -- or of 3:44 a.m. Tuesday, Eastern time -- when the rocket ship built by his company, SpaceX, lifted off gracefully in a nighttime launching and arced off in a streak of light amid loud applause.
''Falcon flew perfectly!!'' Mr. Musk posted exultantly on Twitter from his iPhone at 4:04 a.m. ''Dragon in orbit, comm locked and solar arrays active!! Feels like a giant weight just came off my back :)''
If all goes as planned, his unmanned Dragon capsule, lifted into orbit by his Falcon 9 rocket, will berth at the International Space Station on Friday bearing a modest cargo: 162 meal packets (45 of them low-sodium), a laptop computer, a change of clothes for the station astronauts and 15 student experiments. 
Far more important than the supplies is the proof of concept. Mr. Musk is trying to show the world that a determined entrepreneur can start a rocket company from scratch and, a decade later, end up doing a job that has until now been the exclusive province of federal governments.
''Every launch into space is a thrilling event,'' John P. Holdren, President Obama's assistant for science and technology, said in a statement. ''But this one is especially exciting because it represents the potential of a new era in American spaceflight.''
It is the latest achievement by Mr. Musk, a cocky businessman who was born in South Africa and is one month shy of his 41st birthday. Best known for helping found PayPal and selling it to eBay in 2002 for $1.5 billion, he currently multitasks by running two companies he founded: SpaceX, officially known as the Space Exploration Technologies Corporation, and Tesla Motors, which in 2008 brought to market a head-turning all-electric sports car, the Tesla Roadster. He is also chairman of SolarCity, a company that designs and installs solar energy systems.
SpaceX is based in Hawthorne, Calif., a few miles from Los Angeles International Airport, and Tesla is in Palo Alto in Northern California, but Mr. Musk runs both hands-on. He shuttles up and down the state, spending a few days a week at each. Early Saturday morning, he was in SpaceX's mission control for the first launching attempt of the Falcon 9 when the computers called a last-second abort, shutting down engines that had already ignited.
Two days later, he was crowing about a victory for Tesla's new all-electric sedan.
''Major Tesla milestone,'' he wrote on Twitter on Monday. ''All crash testing is complete for 5* (max) safety rating. Cars can now be built for sale to public!''
On Tuesday, the Falcon 9 launched, putting Mr. Musk at the center of NASA's ambitious effort to turn over basic transportation to low-Earth orbit to private companies. On the same day, Tesla put out a news release announcing that customer deliveries of its electric sedan, the Model S, would begin on June 22 -- ahead of schedule.
The Model S ''represents Tesla's transition to a mass-production automaker and the most compelling car company of the 21st century,'' Mr. Musk is quoted as saying, sparing no modesty.
(His characteristic confidence was also on view on Sunday night, when he told his 38,000 followers on Twitter that the abort on Saturday was actually overcautious: ''Simulations show launch ok with bad valve,'' he wrote. ''Still, better to stop & fix. Recalling rockets after launch is not an option.'')
The Dragon is scheduled to stay at the station until the end of the month as astronauts unpack its cargo and replace it with items to bring back to Earth. Undocking on May 31, the Dragon will splash down in the Pacific Ocean off California. With the completion of a successful demonstration, SpaceX would begin a $1.6 billion contract to fly 12 cargo missions to the space station, and it hopes to be among the companies that NASA selects to take astronauts to the station.
''We're really at the dawn of a new era of space exploration, and one where there's a much bigger role for commercial companies,'' Mr. Musk said at a news conference after the launching Tuesday.
The moment was also an inflection point in Mr. Musk's own career. After leaving South Africa for Canada at 17, he wound up at the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned degrees in economics and physics.
In 1995, Mr. Musk went on to a graduate program in applied physics and materials science at Stanford. He stayed two days before dropping out to start Zip2, a company that developed Web sites for media companies; he and his brother sold it to Compaq in 1999.
Mr. Musk then founded X.com, which provided financial services and payment by e-mail. X.com merged with another company, Confinity, to form PayPal, and Mr. Musk built it into the primary means that eBay bidders use to pay for their purchases.
After the sale of PayPal, Mr. Musk looked for new things to do. By the standards of Internet tycoons, he was a pauper: after taxes, he had a fortune of about $170 million.
Unlike most Web entrepreneurs, however, he did not start more Internet companies. Instead he chose ventures involving complex technology and plowed almost all of his PayPal fortune into them: $100 million into SpaceX, which he founded in 2002, $50 million into Tesla and $10 million into SolarCity.
Just four years ago, SpaceX went through a near-death experience. The first three launchings of the company's small Falcon 1 rocket failed. One more failure, Mr. Musk said, and he would have run out of money. As he went through a divorce from his first wife, with whom he has five sons, he had to borrow money from friends.
The fourth launching succeeded. Late in 2008, NASA awarded SpaceX the cargo contract. The first two Falcon 9 launchings, in 2010, also succeeded.
Early Tuesday morning, the success streak continued. As the countdown clock hit zero, the engines remained ignited. Less than 10 minutes later, the Dragon was in orbit. It then aced several other early tasks like the deployment of solar arrays and navigational sensors and the testing of GPS equipment.
''Anything could have gone wrong,'' Mr. Musk said. ''And everything went right, fortunately.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Falcon 9 lifted off from Cape Canaveral, Fla., on its way to the International Space Station. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RAOUX/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 After selling PayPal, which he helped found, Elon Musk started two other companies, SpaceX and Tesla Motors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM RUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (76%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SPACECRAFT (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); SPACE STATIONS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); AIRPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (63%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); SOLARCITY CORP (57%); PAYPAL INC (52%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (63%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); SCTY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (63%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (73%); JEFFREY P BEZOS (73%); PAUL ALLEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



879 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Parsing List of 5 Names At Insider Trading Trial

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
8:34 p.m. Updated
When Caryn Eisenberg took a job as the executive assistant for the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam, she said that she received this very clear instruction: Don't ever bother Mr. Rajaratnam during the first half-hour or the last half-hour of the trading day, except if he got a call from a shortlist of very important people.
That five-person list included Rajat K. Gupta, the former director of Goldman Sachs on trial on charges that he leaked secret information about the bank to Mr. Rajaratnam, who was convicted last year of insider trading. 
Among the government's accusations is that Mr. Gupta gave Mr. Rajaratnam advance word of Warren E. Buffett's $5 billion investment in Goldman during the depths of the financial crisis.
Mr. Gupta's jury trial, in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff, kicked off its second day with the testimony of Ms. Eisenberg, who worked for the Galleon Group, the hedge fund run by Mr. Rajaratnam, in 2008 and 2009. Ms. Eisenberg is now employed by the brokerage firm Cantor Fitzgerald.
The prosecutor Reed Brodsky reviewed with Ms. Eisenberg her two-year tenure at Galleon, where her job as Mr. Rajaratnam's executive assistant, she said, ''was to do anything in the office that needed to be done for him and his family.'' Ms. Eisenberg said that her first week on the job, her predecessor told her a list of important people for whose calls she should interrupt Mr. Rajaratnam.
The list, handwritten by Ms. Eisenberg in a red notebook that was entered into evidence on Tuesday, included five names: Mr. Gupta, Rajiv Goel, Parag Saxena, Stanley F. Druckenmiller and Anil Kumar.
Mr. Goel and Mr. Kumar have both pleaded guilty to providing Mr. Rajaratnam with inside information about publicly traded companies. Each testified against Mr. Rajaratnam at his trial.
Mr. Saxena runs New Silk Route, an India-focused private equity firm that Mr. Rajaratnam and Mr. Gutpa helped start.
Perhaps the most surprising name on the list was Mr. Druckenmiller, who was among the world's most successful hedge fund investors. Mr. Druckenmiller, a former top lieutenant to the billionaire investor George Soros, shut down his fund, Duquesne Capital Management, in 2010.
Neither Mr. Saxena nor Mr. Druckenmiller has ever been accused of any wrongdoing.
Mr. Druckenmiller's name came up twice on Tuesday. During Ms. Eisenberg's cross-examination, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta showed the jury a travel itinerary for an overnight trip to the Borgata hotel and casino in Atlantic City for an annual celebration of an exclusive, high-end fantasy football league that Mr. Rajaratnam and several Goldman executives participated in. Also in the league were the billionaire hedge fund managers Mr. Druckenmiller and Paul Tudor Jones II. The league has a total purse of $1 million, with all the proceeds donated to charity.
According to the itinerary, helicopters flew the fantasy football players from Manhattan to Atlantic City, where they were met by limousines and taken to the Borgata for dinner, drinks and a night of gambling.
The exhibit appeared to be part of the defense's strategy to hammer away at the cozy ties between Goldman and Galleon and suggest to the jury that Mr. Rajaratnam could have received inside information about the bank from various other sources beside Mr. Gupta. Though supposedly a football fan, Mr. Gupta was not part of the fantasy league festivities.
He was, though, an important person to Mr. Rajaratnam, which was the government's main theme on Tuesday.
Mr. Brodsky, the prosecutor, focused on a call Mr. Rajaratnam received on Sept. 23, 2008, a few minutes before the market close. Ms. Eisenberg testified that the caller did not identify himself but said it was urgent. Recognizing the voice as one of the ''important people'' on Mr. Rajaratnam's list, she tracked down her boss, who was not at his desk. (Mr. Brodsky later established through phone records that Mr. Gupta called Mr. Rajaratnam at 3:54 p.m. on that date.)
Ms. Eisenberg said that Mr. Rajaratnam quickly ran back to his office to take the call. Immediately afterward, she testified, Mr. Rajaratnam called the Galleon trader Gary Rosenbach into his office for a closed-door meeting. She said that Mr. Rosenbach went back to his desk, got on the phone, and said ''buy Goldman Sachs'' a few times just before the market closed.
She also told the jury that she remembered that Mr. Rajaratnam ''was smiling more'' after this call came in and Mr. Rosenbach had purchased the Goldman stock.
How did Ms. Eisenberg remember these events so precisely, Mr. Brodsky asked?
She said it was because the next day, on Sept. 24, she learned about Mr. Buffett's big investment in Goldman and it made her remember the flurry of Goldman trades the afternoon before. Mr. Brodsky, knowing that the Buffett investment was announced at 5 p.m. on Sept. 23, asked Ms. Eisenberg to explain why she was in the dark about the Goldman news until the following morning.
''I went shopping at Bloomingdale's,'' she said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rajat K. Gupta arriving at court Tuesday in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEITH BEDFORD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); EVIDENCE (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); WITNESSES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); JUDGES (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (91%); STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (79%); GEORGE SOROS (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



880 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Official Says Iran Is Open To U.N. Monitors

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Reporting was contributed by Alan Cowell from Paris, Jodi Rudoren from Jerusalem, Thomas Erdbrink from Tehran, Paul Geitner from Brussels, Peter Baker from Washington, and Rick Gladstone and William J. Broad from New York.

 BODY:
AMMAN, Jordan -- Iran signaled a willingness on Tuesday to allow potentially intrusive international inspections of secret military facilities, raising expectations that it was searching for a diplomatic solution to the standoff over its nuclear program.
With talks between Iran and six global powers set to begin Wednesday in Baghdad, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Yukiya Amano, said he had reached something of a breakthrough with Iranian officials on the agency's longstanding request for access to the facilities. Mr. Amano's assertion suggested that Iran was seeking to set a positive tone for the nuclear talks and perhaps ease pressure from strict Western-led sanctions that are about to become even more severe.
Mr. Amano did not specify a timetable or other details. Iran's critics were quick to suggest that the conciliatory-sounding signal from Iran could amount to little more than a negotiating tactic as the Iranians prepare for talks on the more complex issue of Iran's uranium enrichment with the six powers -- the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany. 
But Mr. Amano told reporters at the atomic agency's headquarters in Vienna that there had been an ''important development'' in the agency's effort to reach a ''structured agreement'' on how its inspectors would conduct an investigation into whether the Iranians had sought ways in the past to weaponize enriched nuclear fuel, a longstanding suspicion by the United States, Israel and the European Union.
''The decision was made to conclude and sign the agreement,'' said Mr. Amano, who visited Tehran on Sunday and Monday -- his first trip there since his appointment in 2009. He has expressed strong suspicions himself about what he has called Iran's lack of cooperation in its dealings with the agency.
Mr. Amano's upbeat assessment, coming on top of recent optimistic signals from Western diplomats, suggested that Iran's chief negotiator, Saeed Jalili, was signaling Iran's sincerity in talks with the six powers -- the United States, France, Britain, Germany, Russia and China -- on a more wide-ranging deal to bring Iran back into compliance with Security Council resolutions and ensure that Iran is not trying to build a nuclear weapon.
The most immediate goal of the Baghdad talks for the six appears to be to get an agreement by Tehran to stop enriching uranium to 20 percent purity -- near the level required for a nuclear weapon -- and to discuss exporting its stockpile of uranium enriched to that level. And the six want to be sure Iran is doing more than public relations and is prepared to move quickly to take concrete steps to calm global and regional concerns.
The Baghdad talks were expected to get under way about noon, with a plenary session where the six powers will present a detailed proposal to Iran on concrete confidence-building steps and hear an Iranian presentation before a break for lunch and more discussions, said a senior Western official, who requested anonymity because of the delicacy of the talks.
The official cautioned that an I.A.E.A. agreement with Iran on how to proceed to settle outstanding issues from the past would be good news but would take time to turn into action. The agency, the official said, is trying to get a picture of Iran's past program, but the Baghdad negotiations are about divining Iran's intentions and bringing the country into full compliance. ''These are two separate processes,'' the official said.
The White House welcomed Mr. Amano's announcement with caution. ''It's an agreement in principle that represents a step in the right direction,'' said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary. ''But as we've said in the past about the totality of Iran's obligations and their fulfillment of them, we will make judgments about Iran's behavior based on actions, not just promises or agreements.''
Even Mr. Amano said the talks had not yet produced an agreement on how the I.A.E.A. could conduct the inspections and interviews it demands. ''There remain some differences,'' Mr. Amano said, but he noted that Mr. Jalili had told him that those differences ''will not be the obstacle to reaching agreement.''
In past meetings with the six, Mr. Jalili has argued that Iran's compliance with the I.A.E.A. meant that sanctions should be lifted. That may be an argument he renews Wednesday.
Iran's state-run news media noted that no deal had been made so far with Mr. Amano, and focused instead on what the government has portrayed as steady Iranian advances in nuclear and rocket technology. Iran state television said scientists had successfully loaded uranium fuel into a medical isotope reactor on Tuesday, and the Islamic Republic News Agency said Iran would launch a satellite on Wednesday with an upgraded model of its Safir 2 rocket. The United States and its allies have expressed concern that such a rocket could be altered to carry a warhead.
The negotiations with Iran on its nuclear program so far have been talks about talks. In Baghdad, American and European officials hope to begin the talks themselves -- to start negotiating about what Iran must do to ease global concerns that it is developing a nuclear weapon, and then proceed through a series of detailed meetings and negotiations over the next few months.
Iranian officials are eager for the United Nations, the United States, the European Union and their allies to lift economic sanctions that are clearly hurting Tehran. But Western officials have emphasized in recent days that any removal of sanctions -- or postponement of sanctions on oil exports that take effect July 1 -- will require concrete action by Iran of the kind that the Baghdad meeting alone is unlikely to yield.
If the Baghdad talks produce progress, American officials have said, they are prepared to offer some easing of existing restrictions on the imports of airplane parts, technical assistance to Iran's lagging energy industry, help with nuclear safety and even counternarcotics, or firm statements of Iran's right under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to a peaceful nuclear program so long as it meets international safeguards.
But if the sanctions are a prime reason for Iran to negotiate seriously, Western officials said, they must not be removed prematurely. Even more, they argue, the impending embargo on Iran's oil exports is another incentive for Iran to grapple seriously with the problem and not play for time.
A senior European diplomat who was not authorized to discuss the talks publicly said Iran's uranium enrichment to 20 percent purity is a particular concern, since the stockpile reduces considerably the ''breakout'' period should Iran decide to assemble a nuclear weapon. It represents an especially delicate issue for Israel, which has said that it would act militarily, if necessary, to stop Iran from building a nuclear weapon.
The Israeli defense minister, Ehud Barak, reacted skeptically to Mr. Amano's talk of an agreement. ''It appears that the Iranians are trying to attain a technical agreement to create the illusion of progress in the talks, in order to relieve some of the pressure ahead of tomorrow's discussions in Baghdad and to push back at the sharpening sanctions,'' Mr. Barak said in an e-mailed statement. ''Israel believes that Iran must be placed in an unequivocally clear position where there won't be any window or crack for it to advance toward nuclear weapons.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yukiya Amano, center, director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, getting into his car after returning to Vienna from a visit to Tehran, his first since his appointment in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEONHARD FOEGER/REUTER) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSPECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (90%); GERMANY (90%); IRAQ (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); FRANCE (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



881 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Attack on Bain Goes On, But Doubts Linger

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. continued the assault on Mitt Romney's business background on Tuesday, saying it did not qualify him to be president, even as another prominent Democrat expressed misgivings about the White House strategy. 
A day after President Obama said that Mr. Romney's experience running Bain Capital was ''what this campaign is going to be about,'' Mr. Biden traveled to New Hampshire to press home the point. When Bain bought troubled firms, he said, the result sometimes was that ''the companies go under, everybody loses their job, the community is devastated but they make money.''
''Making money for your investors, which Romney did very well, is not the president's job,'' Mr. Biden said. ''The president has a different job.'' Mr. Biden added that he was not criticizing private equity firms. But, he said, ''I'm suggesting the people who run them, the same quality and objective of running a private equity firm is not what qualifies you to be president.''
The vice president's comments doubled down on the Obama campaign's effort to turn Mr. Romney's political strength against him early enough in the general election cycle to leave him discredited by the time fall arrives. The danger of Mr. Romney's business background as a political asset was underscored by a new Washington Post/ABC News poll that found him tied with the president among voters who were asked who would do a better job handling the economy.
But the White House approach has stirred dissent in the party. Two days after Cory A. Booker, the Democratic mayor of Newark, called the focus on Bain Capital a ''nauseating'' part of campaigning, another top Democrat, former Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania, added his own concerns about the attacks.
''I think they're very disappointing,'' he told the Web site BuzzFeed. ''I think Bain is fair game, because Romney has made it fair game. But I think how you examine it, the tone, what you say, is important as well.''
Mr. Rendell praised Mr. Booker. ''People in politics should tell the truth,'' he said. ''He could have qualified it better; he could have framed it better. But if you're in this business, none of us like negative ads.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); MAYORS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ED RENDELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



882 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sees Other Countries Luring Expatriates to Return

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
The United States is facing intense competition from foreign countries, especially China, that are seeking to persuade highly skilled citizens who have settled in this country to return home to start businesses there, according to a report released Tuesday by an immigration group led by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.
''China is proving the most aggressive and ambitious'' among the United States' economic competitors in seeking to reverse a brain drain and lure back their scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs, the report by Mr. Bloomberg's group, the Partnership for a New American Economy, found. 
The report was broadly critical of the American immigration system, which it said is slow, inflexible and not synchronized with the nation's labor needs. ''Self-inflicted economic wounds'' caused by the system, the report says, discourage foreigners from investing and block foreign students with advanced degrees from American universities from remaining here. The report was prepared by Mr. Bloomberg's group and the Partnership for New York City, a business organization.
Two years ago, China started a program focused on ''talent development'' to draw in Chinese who studied or worked abroad, according to the report. China is offering bonuses equivalent to about $158,000 to experienced university professors and researchers, particularly in the sciences and technology, who return to teach.
Returning scholars and business people are offered housing subsidies and tax exemptions to locate new enterprises in government-designated districts. One program is designed to attract Chinese expatriates who hold overseas patents in specialized science fields, the report found. China is also recruiting Chinese managers in high-level positions in non-Chinese companies.
A review of the results of the Chinese program showed that 55 percent of Chinese who returned under its auspices came from the United States.
Last year, the study found, about 160,000 students from China were enrolled in American universities, more than from any other country, and they were far more likely than Americans to be studying engineering, science or technology. While the growth of American students in those fields is ''among the lowest of any academic category,'' the analysis reported, about 60 percent of foreign graduate students in this country in 2010 were enrolled in those subjects.
Limits on residence visas for foreign students graduating from American universities has forced thousands to leave in recent years, the study finds. The United States has no visa for foreign entrepreneurs with novel ideas for starting businesses here.
But Canada and other countries are also vigorously recruiting highly skilled foreigners trained in the United States who are frustrated with the cumbersome immigration system here, according to the report.
Singapore gives a one-year visa as well as matching funds to foreign entrepreneurs who invest $50,000, with the possibility of renewal. Chile offers work visas and subsidies up to $40,000 to technology entrepreneurs who go there to start businesses.
Mr. Bloomberg has been an outspoken advocate for immigration, saying it has been vital to the continued growth of New York. The report dismissed as a ''short-term challenge'' the lingering high unemployment in this country that has generated forceful resistance to expanding immigration in Congress.
In a move Tuesday that showed progress in the American system but also highlighted its inefficiencies, Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that grants immigration documents, started a Web site where for the first time foreigners can apply electronically. Until now, all procedures have been done on paper.
Alejandro Mayorkas, the agency's director, called the Web site a ''significant milestone'' in its history.
For now, though, the site will handle only one type of application, for temporary visitors who want to stay longer. The agency hopes all documents will be processed electronically ''within the next few years,'' said Christopher Bentley, an agency spokesman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); PATENTS (65%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



883 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: In One Corner, a Champion of Government. In the Other, Its Foe.

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The currency of political persuasion is emotion -- and the way President Obama and Mitt Romney are spending it crystallizes their starkly contrasting appeals.
An Obama campaign video shows the president's national political director, Katherine Archuleta, tearfully crediting Mr. Obama with having saved her daughter's life. She portrays the president as a hero of government whose health care law assures her daughter, a cancer survivor, insurance coverage forever.
A video by a political committee backing Mr. Romney follows a nearly identical tack: evocative music and a tearful description of Mr. Romney as ''the man who helped save my daughter.'' But the testimonial, from a former partner at Bain Capital, depicts Mr. Romney as a hero of business who once shut down his firm to aid search efforts until the partner's missing teenager was found.
Those competing stories are rooted in more than the biographies of the Democratic incumbent, a former professor and community organizer, and his Republican challenger, a onetime financial industry titan. They also reflect the divergent ideologies and core constituencies of the two parties. 
Mr. Obama champions government as a linchpin of future economic growth and the average American's protector from the excesses and failures of the free market.
Mr. Romney condemns government as a menace whose excesses and failures imperil the free market's ability to enhance individual opportunity and make the nation prosperous.
Each has more negative than positive material to work with. Their back-and-forth is a clash between institutions reduced to equal levels of public disdain after years of economic weakness, Wall Street's collapse and bailout, high unemployment levels and shifting election outcomes.
A Pew Research Center poll found in February that only 22 percent of Americans rated the federal government as having a positive effect on American life -- precisely the same proportion who rated banks and other financial institutions positively.
''It's clearly a standoff,'' said Pew's pollster, Andrew Kohut, though one involving coalitions of different shapes.
Blacks and Hispanics were twice as likely as whites to rate government positively, for example, and nearly four times as likely as white evangelicals. Mr. Obama's argument draws stronger support from single women, Mr. Romney's from white men and married women.
The contours of the partisan debate have grown familiar since Ronald Reagan called government the problem, not the solution, and the 2000 election established how closely it divides the nation.
But each side sees an opening for a breakthrough in November.
For the Romney team, it is the juxtaposition of a Democratic incumbent struggling with hard times against a Republican candidate uniquely suited to extend the arc of conservative ascendancy that began with Reagan's antigovernment campaign in 1980.
''We haven't had a candidate that's been as successful from a business standpoint as Romney has been,'' said Carl Forti, a strategist for the pro-Romney ''super PAC'' that produced the advertisement featuring his business partner. As hostile as swing voters may be toward Wall Street and big corporations, he added, ''they absolutely know government's worse.''
For Mr. Obama's advisers, the opening lies in their ability to tie Mr. Romney to the market's generation-long failure to deliver rising living standards to average Americans. ''The country tried everything Romney says, and it brought the economy to the brink of collapse,'' said Mr. Obama's pollster, Joel Benenson. ''The American people know our country has a big role to play in investing in education, in R&D to produce new industries and in infrastructure.''
That explains the Obama campaign's recent attack on Mr. Romney's record at Bain Capital. An Obama campaign video with sorrowful former steelworkers cast Mr. Romney as a corporate ''vampire'' who with his partners bought a Missouri manufacturer, siphoned away profits for themselves and bankrupted it. Mr. Obama's defense this week of his campaign's Bain attacks underscored the ideological clash. The president asserted that pursuit of private-sector profits was insufficient preparation for service as chief executive of government, who is obliged to consider the interests of all constituents, including workers.
The Romney campaign answered that tale of villainy with one of heroism. Its ad highlighted a different company that ''Mitt Romney's private-sector leadership team'' helped start, creating 6,000 jobs.
''If that's not the American dream, I don't know what is,'' a grateful worker concluded.
The route to the American dream sketched by Mr. Obama involves critical assistance from the government. In an interactive Obama campaign graphic, the fictional character ''Julia'' benefits from programs like Head Start, small-business subsidies and the new health care law. The campaign recently spent $1 million on a targeted mailing to women in swing states trumpeting benefits they would lose if Mr. Romney won a repeal of the health law.
Mr. Romney dismissed the ''Julia'' device as an illustration of the centrality of government to Mr. Obama's vision. He said at a rally this year, ''If you're looking for free stuff you don't have to pay for, vote for the other guy.''
Mr. Obama promotes the two-year-old financial regulation law as protection against the depredations of Wall Street, with all the more urgency after JPMorgan Chase's recent multibillion-dollar trading loss. Mr. Romney insists that the law inhibits private-sector-led growth and supports its repeal.
He takes the same view of the government's involvement in bailing out auto companies, saying it rewarded unions friendly to Democrats at the taxpayers' expense; his campaign's new Web video features nonunion workers complaining that Washington had not helped them. Mr. Obama says the government bailout saved the industry.
Both sides supplement philosophical arguments with practical ones. Mr. Romney casts the administration's interventions as simply ineffective; Mr. Obama's campaign says Mr. Romney failed to deliver on jobs and government-slimming promises as governor of Massachusetts.
Yet they consistently offer voters a fundamental contrast of outlook.
Mr. Obama wants government to enhance opportunity and temper inequality through investments in education, research, infrastructure and new energy technologies -- paid for with help from higher taxes on the wealthy. Mr. Romney, speaking in Des Moines last week, articulated the opposite view.
''The private sector is by far the most efficient and cost-effective'' at generating economic growth, Mr. Romney said. ''As President Obama and old-school liberals absorb more and more of our economy into government, they make what we do more expensive, less efficient and less useful.''
''They make America less competitive,'' he concluded. ''You do not owe Washington a bigger share of your paycheck.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scenes from presidential campaign videos that cast President Obama as a hero of government, top, and his challenger, Mitt Romney, as a hero of business. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA
 RESTORE OUR FUTURE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MEN (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); CANCER (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); HEALTH CARE LAW (56%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



884 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Tall Tales About Private Equity

BYLINE: By STEVEN RATTNER. 
Steven Rattner, a contributing opinion writer, was a Treasury Department official in the , Obama administration.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA started his general election campaign by taking aim at Mitt Romney's job creation record at Bain, setting off a lively debate over the fairness of the attacks.
I am among those who have been drawn into the argument -- there was even a snippet of me defending private equity in a Romney campaign ad.
As a former Obama administration official, I was uncomfortable about being used in a Romney ad in support of his position. 
However, I was also concerned that the Obama ads, while narrowly accurate, might be seen to portray Bain Capital (and implicitly, private equity) in an ugly light because a few of the companies the firm invested in went bankrupt while Bain Capital still made money
On Monday, Mr. Obama struck the right balance, emphasizing that he wasn't attacking private equity but was questioning Mitt Romney's Bain Capital credentials to be the job creator in chief.
That's fair, particularly because Mr. Romney himself has been foolishly reweaving history to claim, as recently as last week, that he helped create 100,000 jobs during his time at Bain.
In fact, Bain Capital -- like other private equity firms -- was founded and managed for profit: ideally, huge amounts of gain earned legally and legitimately. Any job creation was a welcome but secondary byproduct.
The language in one prospectus seeking Bain Capital investors was clear: ''The objective of the Fund is to achieve an annual rate of return on invested capital in excess of the returns generated'' by other investments. Any job creation was accidental.
In Mr. Romney's case, his jobs assertion rests heavily on just a few early investments.
Originally hatched to provide venture capital to young enterprises, Bain Capital notched a few such successes, notably Staples and Sports Authority. These were small stakes in companies -- about $2.5 million in Staples -- over which Bain had little influence.
While I defend the role financiers play in making our economy work, I also concede that Mark Zuckerberg was far more central to the success of Facebook and its 3,200 jobs than the venture capitalists who invested early.
Although Bain Capital sold off those early investments years ago, Mr. Romney takes credit for every job ever created at every company Bain Capital invested in during his tenure -- while ignoring jobs eliminated after his departure.
''The steel factory closed down two years after I left Bain Capital,'' he said last week about GST Steel, the Kansas City, Mo., company that went bankrupt in 2001. ''I was no longer there, so that's hardly something which is on my watch.''
Meanwhile, when Staples went public in 1989, it had 1,100 employees; at the end of 1998, right before Mr. Romney exited Bain, it had 42,000 workers. Yet Mr. Romney takes credit for the 89,000 employed at the close of 2010.
As the years clicked by, Bain Capital and Mr. Romney smelled the chance to make more money by raising larger amounts. That, in turn, led them toward classic leveraged buyouts -- the purchase, often heavily financed by debt, of more established companies.
These enterprises were often what Wall Street describes as ''undermanaged,'' which means the Bain Capital team could take ''aggressive action'' that often included cutting costs -- read: jobs -- to increase profitability.
That's not wrong; it's part of capitalism. Whatever its flaws, private equity has made a material contribution to sharpening management. But don't confuse a leveraged buyout with job creation.
Under Mr. Romney's leadership, Bain Capital engaged in the less attractive practice of putting more debt on seemingly successful investments in order to take dividends out. In at least four instances of Bain Capital investments during Romney's tenure, these ''recapped'' companies, of which two were featured in the Obama ads, subsequently went bankrupt, costing thousands their jobs.
To be sure, some of Bain's large leveraged buyouts -- notably, Domino's Pizza -- added jobs. But Mr. Romney left Bain Capital two months after the Domino's investment (7,900 new jobs claimed) was finalized.
Aware of private equity's reputation, Mr. Romney still trots around the country erroneously calling himself a ''venture capitalist.''
And in a further effort to deflect attention from the Bain Capital debate, Mr. Romney last week argued that President Obama was responsible for the loss of 100,000 jobs in the auto industry over the past three years.
That's both ridiculously false (auto industry and dealership jobs have increased by about 50,000 since January 2009) and a remarkable comment from a man who said that the companies should have been allowed to go bankrupt and that the industry would have been better off without President Obama's involvement.
Adding jobs was never Mitt Romney's private sector agenda, and it's appropriate to question his ability to do so.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); PLANT CLOSINGS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (65%) MISSOURI, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



885 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: For Black Mormons, a Political Choice Like No Other

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY -- When Marguerite Driessen, a professor here, entered Brigham Young University in the early 1980s, she was the first black person many Mormon students had ever met, and she spent a good bit of her college time debunking stereotypes about African-Americans. Then she converted to Mormonism herself, and went on to spend a good deal of her adult life correcting assumptions about Mormons.
So the matchup in this year's presidential election comes as a watershed moment for her, symbolizing the hard-won acceptance of racial and religious minorities.
''A Mormon candidate and a black candidate? Who would have thunk?'' Ms. Driessen said. ''I think 30 years ago, we would not have had this choice.'' 
After examining the dual -- and sometimes conflicting -- identities, she has decided that she will cast her vote for President Obama over Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee. Ms. Driessen believes that there is plenty in the Book of Mormon to support Mr. Obama's candidacy, and she likes to cite chapter and verse, like Mosiah 29:39 and 23:13.
''It says it is your job, people, to elect people who will protect your liberties,'' said Ms. Driessen, a constitutional lawyer. ''That is my standard.''
Being black, liberal and Mormon, Ms. Driessen represents a small but emerging point of view that is in stark contrast to the traditional profile of American Latter-day Saints, who tend to be conservative, Republican and white.
While many within the church community are rooting for Mr. Romney, the minority Mormon voices are becoming more assertive, perhaps because of the strength of their growing numbers. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has experienced explosive worldwide growth through its missionary work, particularly in countries with large black populations. In the United States, it is the second-fastest growing religion, according to a recently released decennial census of religions.
While the church does not track members by race, there are thriving Mormon churches with hundreds of black members today in many urban areas, including Washington, Chicago and New York, although African-Americans represent only a tiny fraction of the six million Mormons in the United States.
The conversion of blacks in this country has been a challenge, given the church's turbulent history of excluding people of black African descent. Until 1978, black men were not allowed to become priests or bishops; dark skin was considered a biblical curse. During the 1960s, when Mitt Romney's father, George, made civil rights a personal priority during his time as a Republican governor of Michigan, his progressive views put him at odds with church doctrine.
Over the last decades, however, there has been an aggressive campaign to diversify, and racism in the church -- which was itself once powerless and persecuted as a cult -- has been repeatedly denounced.
''I feel a definite sense of pride in the U.S.A. that we have a Mormon candidate and black candidate,'' said Catherine Spruill, who lives in a suburb of Salt Lake and is mixed-race like Mr. Obama and Mormon like Mr. Romney. ''I feel pride for my people, because America picked that.''
There is even a black Mormon Congressional candidate, Mia Love, who will soon be on the ballot in Utah. She is running as a conservative Republican for the newly created Fourth District, which includes part of Salt Lake County. A campaign video describes her in these terms, among others: ''mother, mayor, leader, gun owner.''
With the larger tent has come a more diverse array of political ideologies and expressions in a church culture that has been known for its strict hierarchy and members' adherence to authority and rules, for instance the prohibitions on caffeine and alcohol. Of more than a dozen black Mormons interviewed for this article across the country, eight were Democratic-leaning Obama supporters, two were undecided, and two others said they were committed to voting for Mr. Romney.
''With respect to Romney being a Mormon, bless his heart,'' said Tracie J. Walker, 48, of Washington. ''I think he's a strange character. He got confused by money, I think. So he doesn't understand reality today.''
None of the black Mormons who spoke to a reporter said he or she would vote strictly based on race or religion, only conscience. Even after the president's endorsement of same-sex marriages last Wednesday, invoking Christianity and the golden rule -- ''treat others the way you would want to be treated,'' he said -- Mormon supporters of Mr. Obama did not waver, saying they made a distinction between their own private religious beliefs and what they think is right for secular society.
''To my way of thinking the secular government has no business messing in these private affairs among individuals,'' Ms. Driessen said. ''What other people choose to do is not a problem for me, as long as it doesn't harm me.''
Ms. Spruill, 31, who converted to Mormonism while serving in the Navy 13 years ago, said the decision did not matter to her, either, adding, ''I applaud the president's fortitude.''
Religion is always on her mind, however, and she particularly enjoys a certain political punch line that is making the rounds among some black Mormons here.
It goes like this: Mr. Obama calls Mr. Romney to say he thinks it is time the country had a Mormon president. But just as Mr. Romney is thanking the president for the apparent concession, Mr. Obama interrupts him to say, ''My baptism is on Saturday.''
Undoubtedly, some black Mormons are still wrestling with the decision of whom to vote for.
''It's tough because you've got the first black president, but he's running against a candidate who has the values I believe in,'' said Eddie Gist, 43, a black Mormon who lives in Salt Lake City. Mr. Gist said he may end up leaning more toward Mr. Romney, but added, ''I really can't go wrong either way.''
In 1971, the church founded the Genesis Group, a support organization for black Mormons in Salt Lake City. Today, it counts nearly 500 members, according to Don Harwell, the group's president, who converted in 1983.
Mr. Harwell, who is black and originally from Los Angeles, said that church members kept politics out of Genesis activities and temple life, so he could not speak to their presidential preferences. As for himself, he is a registered Republican. Mr. Harwell and his wife, Jerri Harwell, a professor who supports Mr. Obama, are frequent political sparring partners.
''I've met Romney, I've talked to Romney, and I feel good about Romney,'' he said over dinner one night this month with Ms. Harwell in Salt Lake. ''My biggest thing is getting somebody in there with integrity and business sense, and that's what he brings.''
Ms. Harwell disagreed: ''He hasn't even worked in years.''
Asked whether she felt compelled to bend to peer pressure in conservative Utah, where religion and culture are so thoroughly intertwined, Ms. Harwell said no.
''The religion is very much a part of me, but I was born black and I will die black.''
Beyond that, she feels that Mr. Obama is the better candidate. ''My problem with Romney, politically, is that he cannot relate to the common man,'' she said. ''I'm afraid of what would happen to the economy given his frame of reference.''
Paul Sleet, a black computer systems engineer and photographer in St. Louis, joined the Mormon Church in 1989. He has five children, one of whom is serving as a missionary.
''Everything the church represents seems to be more clearly represented by Michelle and Barack Obama,'' he said.
''I'm 100 percent Mormon and committed to my religion,'' he said, ''but I've never really thought about whether I'd have the same pride in a Mormon being elected president.
''I don't know if I'd have the same tears in my eyes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about black Mormons' views of the presidential candidates misstated the date President Obama endorsed same-sex marriage. It was May 9 -- not ''last Wednesday'' (May 16).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CATHERINE SPRUILL: ''I feel a definite sense of pride in the U.S.A. that we have a Mormon candidate and black candidate,'' Ms. Spruill, 31, said at her Mormon church in West Jordan, Utah.
JERRI AND DON HARWELL: ''My problem with Romney, politically, is that he cannot relate to the common man,'' she said over dinner. Her husband countered: ''I've met Romney, I've talked to Romney, and I feel good about Romney.''
 MARGUERITE DRIESSEN: ''A Mormon candidate and a black candidate? Who would have thunk?'' Ms. Driessen said at her home in Lindon, Utah.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FRIBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); RELIGION (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); GOVERNORS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); MEN (63%); CENSUS (50%)

COMPANY: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) UTAH, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



886 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Case Against Chairman of Banco Santander Is Dropped

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
MADRID -- Spain's national court on Tuesday closed a tax fraud investigation focusing on Emilio Botin, the chairman of Banco Santander, and 11 of his relatives.
The court said the case was abandoned, without any charges being brought, because the Botin family had straightened out its tax problems before June 2011, when the investigation was announced. At the time, people close to the family said the Botins had already paid about 200 million euros (about $288 million based on the exchange rate at that time) in back taxes.
Lawyers from Uria Menendez, a Madrid law firm representing the Botin family, said they welcomed the court decision. 
''The full dismissal of this case by the national high court judge, at the request of the public prosecutor and the state attorney, confirm what we said when the case was opened in June 2011: that the family had voluntarily and completely regularized its tax obligations, which were and are all up to date,'' the lawyers said in a statement.
Still, the announcement in June that Mr. Botin was the subject of a tax evasion investigation was a shock to Spain's already fragile banking sector. The national tax agency's inquiry was based on a list of undeclared Swiss bank accounts sent to the Spanish authorities by their French counterparts. The list was handed over to France by a former information technology expert at HSBC.
The Botin family's dealings with HSBC dated to 1937, when Mr. Botin's father, who was also named Emilio, left Spain after the start of the Spanish Civil War and opened an account in Switzerland. He died in 1993, but the Botins' lawyers said his son and other heirs found out about the secret bank account only two years ago, when the list of HSBC account holders came to light.
Mr. Botin took the helm of Banco Santander in 1986, making him one of the country's longest-serving banking chairmen. His stature in Spain is such that his rare pronouncements on the economy often eclipse those of politicians.
Over the last two decades, Mr. Botin transformed Santander into Europe's largest bank by market value, with significant investments in Brazil, the United States and Britain. That diversification has helped Santander weather the collapse of Spain's real estate market better than most of its rivals -- in particular savings banks whose exposure to rising mortgage defaults has fueled concerns that Spain might need international assistance to keep its banking sector afloat. This month, Spain partially nationalized Bankia, the country's largest real estate lender.
The tax fraud investigation into the Botin family came at an awkward time for Santander because of a separate court case involving Alfredo Saenz, the bank's chief executive and Mr. Botin's second in command, who was found guilty of making false claims in the 1990s against debtors of Banesto, a troubled bank that was eventually taken over by Santander.
The ruling included a ban from banking, but Mr. Saenz eventually received an official pardon from the previous Socialist government in November, in what was one of the final decisions made by Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, then the prime minister, just days after he lost a general election to Mariano Rajoy and his conservative Popular Party.
The issue of offshore accounts came back to the forefront in March, when Mr. Rajoy's government announced a partial tax amnesty designed to bring to the surface about 25 billion euros in revenue hidden in the underground economy and in offshore financial centers. The repatriated money will be taxed at 10 percent, the government said.
Online Correction: May 22, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated when Mr. Zapatero pardoned Mr. Saenz. It was after he lost the general election, not before. (He was in office for another three weeks.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emilio Botin, chairman of Banco Santander, Spain's largest bank, and 11 relatives paid $288 million to settle back taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NACHO CUBERO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); TAX FRAUD (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); NATIONALIZATION (75%); JUDGES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%); CIVIL WAR (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: BANCO SANTANDER SA (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (83%)

TICKER: SANT (LIS) (92%); SANT (BIT) (92%); SANB3 (BOVESPA) (92%); SAN (NYSE) (92%); SAN (MCE) (92%); SAN (BMV) (92%); BNC (LSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (83%); HSB (PAR) (83%); HBC (NYSE) (83%); 0005 (HKSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: EMILIO BOTIN (91%); ANA PATRICIA BOTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (90%) SPAIN (97%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



887 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Was Greed Good?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: No. 

 BODY:
As the debate moves - appropriately! - to a discussion of Romney's career at Bain, one thing I've noticed is that everyone on the right, and a fair number of people who should know better, basically believes that Gordon Gekko was right. Before the Gekkos came along, they assert, American business was sluggish, unproductive, and uncompetitive. Then came the LBOs and all that, and our economic energy was unleashed.
As I said, everyone on the right knows that this happened. Needless to say, none of it is at all true.
Let's look at how trends changed after 1980 or so, when the underlying rules of American business (and politics) shifted. Start with productivity - I use a log scale, so that the slope of the trend represents the rate of growth. See the big acceleration? Neither do I - productivity growth has actually been slower since the rise of Bain-type operators.
Ah, but competitiveness - we began selling competitively on world markets instead of running big trade deficits, right? Well, no.
So did anything change? Why, yes: income distribution became radically more unequal.
And that, I think, explains why everyone on the right knows, just knows, that great things happened after the forces of greed were unleashed. Great things did indeed happen to their patrons. For ordinary Americans, not so much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



888 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 29 words

HEADLINE: Business Day Live: Greek Banks Receive Financing

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: A Silicon Valley lawsuit highlights the scarcity of women in top technology jobs. Why Greek businesses fear a return to the drachma. Athenians talk about the economic crisis. 

 BODY:
 A Silicon Valley lawsuit highlights the scarcity of women in top technology jobs. Why Greek businesses fear a return to the drachma. Athenians talk about the economic crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (86%); INVESTMENT BANKING (86%) Financial Services; Investment Banking; Technology; Venture Capital; Video

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



889 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Sequoia Capital Said to Be Expanding to Brazil

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: Sequoia Capital would be the latest Silicon Valley stalwart to tap into the region's growing economy. 

 BODY:
SAO PAULO, Brazil -- Sequoia Capital is expanding to South America, becoming the latest Silicon Valley stalwart to tap into the region's growing economy, according to two Brazilian investors with direct knowledge of the plans.
The venture capital firm plans to send one of its partners, David Velez, to Brazil in July to head up its regional office, likely in So Paulo. It is also seeking a research associate, said the investors, who asked to be anonymous because the plans were not finalized. Officials at Sequoia declined to comment.
The move has apparently been in the works for over a year. Doug Leone, a Sequoia partner, came to Brazil in December 2010, to look for potential investments and entrepreneurs looking to expand, according to the two investors. The firm hired Mr. Velez in 2011 to oversee South American investments. 
Mr. Velez, a graduate of Stanford's engineering school, had helped start General Atlantic's Brazilian operations. Before that, he was an investment banker at Morgan Stanley in the financial sponsors group, based in New York. 
Sequoia has not yet invested in any Brazil-based technology companies, but the country is an important market for two South American investments that the firm made late last year. 
Its first investment in South America was a $10 million infusion to Scanntech, based in Montevideo, Uruguay. Sequoia was introduced to the company through Sergio Monsalve, a partner at Norwest Venture Partners. 
Scanntech, started in 1991, makes technology to connect independent grocers and retailers with suppliers. Customers include Kraft, Coca-Cola, Scotiabank and Visa. The company had revenue last year of $18 million, which is projected to grow to $36 million this year.
Austral Capital, a venture capital firm based in Chile that had previously invested in Scanntech , also contributed $1.5 million in the recent round. Mr. Velez and Austral's Felipe Camposano serve on Scanntech's board.
Scanntech considers Brazil critical to its growth and is also looking to Asia, said one of Scanntech's co-founders, Ral Polakof.
Sequoia may seem an unlikely partner because it does not have deep expertise in Brazil. But Mr. Polakof said that the venture capital firm's expansive reach made it appealing. "I want Scanntech to become a global company," he said.
He also said that Sequoia would not invest less than $10 million, the total that Scanntech sought to raise, which prevented it from bringing on Brazilian firms as co-investors.
"For the next two years, I do not want to have to raise more capital," Mr. Polakof said. 
Sequoia's second investment was in Despegar, an online travel company for the region based in Argentina and Brazil. Founded in 1999, the company's majority shareholder is Tiger Global Management. 
Despegar declined to comment on the investment, but Securities and Exchange Commission filings indicate that the company has raised a total of $50.85 million in recent months. Its investors include Sequoia and Accel Partners.

        
Silicon Valley Firm Raises Deal Fund
        
Does Silicon Valley's Spending Spree Signal a Recovery?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) Accel Partners; David Velez; Despegar; Doug Leone; Norwest Venture Partners; Scanntech; Sequoia Capital; Tiger Management; Venture Capital; Technology

COMPANY: NORWEST VENTURE PARTNERS (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (54%); COCA-COLA CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Sequoia Capital

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%); BNS (TSX) (54%); BNS (NYSE) (54%); KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); URUGUAY (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



890 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: At CUNY, an Ethnic Shift Because of Stricter Admissions

BYLINE: TANYA CALDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: First-time freshmen at the university's top-tier schools are entering with higher SAT scores, more Asian students, and fewer black and Hispanics. 

 BODY:
More than 10 years after the City University of New York ended its open-enrollment admissions at its four-year colleges, the freshman classes at its top institutions have "far better academic credentials and also a different demographic mix," our colleague Richard Prez-Pea reports: 
At the university's five most competitive four-year colleges - Baruch, Brooklyn, City, Hunter and Queens - nearly 12 percent of freshmen entering in 2001 had SAT scores of 1,200 or more. In 2007, for the last prerecession class, the figure was up to 16 percent, and by last fall, it had jumped to 26 percent.
At the same time, black representation among first-time freshmen at those colleges dropped, to 10 percent last fall from 17 percent in 2001. Over the same period, the Hispanic share rose slightly for several years, then fell once the recession began, to 18 percent, while the white portion fell slightly, to 35 percent.
Asians are now entering the top colleges in the greatest numbers, composing 37 percent of those classes, up from 25 percent a decade earlier.
The ethnic changes at CUNY's top colleges confirm the predictions made during the battle over ending open admissions, one of the city's most charged political disputes of the 1990s: Proponents said the colleges would rise in status, while opponents said black and Hispanic enrollment would fall.
"We're not condemning CUNY; we just don't think they've taken into account the long-term effects of what's happening," said David R. Jones, the president and chief executive of the Community Service Society of New York, an antipoverty group, which has just completed a study of the changes. "If you're taking a lower percentage of blacks and Latinos out of high school, you should try to make sure this doesn't continue." 
The CUNY chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, has said that CUNY's five top-tier colleges have had more transfer students than first-time freshmen in the past three years.
"We are graduating more black and Hispanic students than we ever have before," he said.

        
'Relatively Average, Nothing Special' and Worried About College
        
Roundup: Remedial Classes at CUNY, James Franco at Yale, Presidents on Tuition
        
Some Wisdom About College From Veteran Professors
        
Ahoy! Which Are The Nation's 'Boatiest' Colleges?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); ETHNICITY (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Baruch College; Brooklyn College; CUNY; demographics; Hunter College; Queens College; Goldstein, Matthew; Admissions Standards; Blacks; Colleges and Universities; Hispanic-Americans; Race and Ethnicity; City University of New York; Admissions Buzz

ORGANIZATION: City University of New York

PERSON: Goldstein, Matthew

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



891 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Esquire: The magazine names Milwaukee -- the one-time beer capital of the nation, and still a drinker's paradise -- the Bar City of the Year. The drinks correspondent shines a well-deserved spotlight on Cream City icons like the century-old Wolski's Tavern and the wonderful (trust me), dimly lighted time capsule Bryant's Cocktail Lounge. Order a brandy old-fashioned. ... -- Robert Simonson
Esquire: ... And in the same roundup, Tom Junod remembers drinking a martini on Ninth Avenue with a Mafia don. -- Jeff Gordinier 
NPR: OK, now I'm curious. Birch sap syrup? -- Julia Moskin
Bloomberg Businessweek: Spam, the junk e-mail, is hardly a popular term at the Minnesota headquarters of Spam, the tinned pork product. Indeed, this article is an in-depth chronicle of the travails of the Hormel company to survive "the greatest marketing challenge in its 75-year history," the association of its premier brand with the universally negative connotation of the word spam. -- Glenn Collins 
Garden and Gun: Kim Severson on fried pies with a dash of moonshine. -- Susan Edgerley
The New York Observer: As the grumbling about last weekend's Great GoogaMooga festival keeps rumbling on, the chef Eddie Huang says enough already: The biggest problem was holding the thing in Brooklyn, which can never be satisfied. ...
: ... And the rancor continues over Thomas Keller and Andoni Luis Aduriz's comments in The Times last week that their first job is creating tasty food, not saving the planet. Paula Crossfield likens the two chefs to dinosaurs; their argument "sounds even staler than the day-old bread at Bouchon Bakery." -- Patrick Farrell
Brooklyn Guy: The Brook does Austria, or rather he attends a gathering that celebrated the myriad, undervalued wines of Austria and drinks very well. -- Eric Asimov 
Elizabeth Minchilli in Rome: Straight out of Italy, here's a fine idea for your Memorial Day feast: Wrap spring onions in pancetta and then char them over a hot fire. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The photographer Jun Belen is working his way through a stunning alphabet of Filipino food. He started with Achuete Oil a year ago, breezed past Calamansi Sorbet and Pork Belly Binagoongan; now he's up to Sawsawan. -- Julia Moskin
Palate Press: A round-table discussion on -- what else? -- alcohol levels in Santa Barbara County wines. -- Eric Asimov 
The Washington Post: The high-end Curaao category, once dominated the orange liqueurs Cointreau and Grand Marnier, is getting mighty crowded. -Robert Simonson
The Economist: For the first time, American beef, bacon, soybeans and fruit can enter Colombia duty free -- and thousands of foods and products can enter the American market tariff free from Colombia -- thanks to a new week-old free-trade agreement. But wait: Colombian chicken producers are already howling that American chicken will undercut their chicken at half the price, and that the United States does not honor poultry hygiene certificates from Colombia. That precludes any imports. -- Glenn Collins 
Westchester Magazine: Julia Sexton on how Blue Hill at Stone Barns is transforming the bologna sandwich into "a poetic ode to lunchmeat." -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Men are moving into the kitchen at home, writes Daniel Duane, hinting that part of the fun (for him, anyway) is escaping less appetizing chores. -- Patrick Farrell
: Be forewarned: This piece about brain tapeworms could be the most disgusting thing you'll read all year. And the takeaway? You might not want to undercook your pork. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMAIL MARKETING (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); PORK (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); BEEF (68%); MEATS (68%); BAKERIES (66%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); ITALY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



892 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: New Study Outlines How the Military Could Create a Leaner, Less Expensive Force

BYLINE: THOM SHANKER


HIGHLIGHT: A new study released Wednesday by the Center for a New American Security offers some provocative ideas for how the Pentagon could reshape itself for this new era. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The war in Iraq is over. The war in Afghanistan is winding down. Today, the challenge facing the Pentagon is identifying the best military plans in an era to be defined by economic austerity. The world will be just as dangerous, but in different, even more unexpected ways, than in the years after the Sept. 11 attacks, when the Defense Department had a virtual blank check to pay for its programs.
A new study, "Sustainable Preeminence: Reforming the U.S. Military at a Time of Strategic Change,"released Wednesday by the Center for a New American Security, a policy research center in Washington, offers some provocative ideas for how the Pentagon could reshape itself for this new era. 
The authors - Lt. Gen. David W. Barno, a retired three-star Army officer who served as the top American officer in Afghanistan, Nora Bensahel, Matthew Irvine and Travis Sharp - call for merging several of the regional combatant commands, which are the global headquarters controlled by powerful four-star officers responsible for military actions in their corners of the world. Civilian and contractor work forces should be reduced, they say. The Army should transfer more of its combat brigades into the Reserves. The Navy should retire an aircraft carrier. And the Air Force should focus on building a stealthy, long-range attack and intelligence-gathering aircraft - but one without a pilot in the cockpit, and so flown remotely.
Although former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates began a quest to seek efficiencies and savings in military spending, and the current Pentagon chief, Leon E. Panetta, has proposed a budget with cuts approaching $500 billion over the next 10 years, the study argues that the Pentagon still has not enacted reforms "necessary to sustain U.S. military preeminence into the future."
"Too many DOD structures, processes, programs and operational concepts are legacies of the past, which create unnecessary redundancies, waste valuable resources and encourage unproductive competition among the services rather than cooperation," the study says. 
The study argues that more money is not the answer. "We disagree with those who argue that preserving American military preeminence requires maintaining or increasing current levels of defense spending," the authors state, adding that the Pentagon "must maintain America's military preeminence but spend less on defense by operating more efficiently and effectively."
The authors certainly join the Obama administration's strategic pivot in advocating that naval and air forces should be prioritized "to project power and deter aggression in the vast Asia-Pacific" but without ignoring the "volatile greater Middle East."
And it makes the case - no less noteworthy because past efforts have so famously failed - that the Pentagon should reduce unnecessary duplication of effort.
But in a clear break with a decade of spending that focused on the "today" wars of Afghanistan and Iraq, the study advocates "investments in technologies that leap ahead of the planned next generation of existing systems, especially technologies related to unmanned, autonomous and artificial intelligence systems."
How, exactly, should all that be done?
One redundancy identified in the study is in the efforts of the military's global combatant commands, and the authors propose eliminating two. That would be done by merging the new and smaller Africa Command into the European Command. Other efficiencies, the authors say, could be found by combining Northern Command - responsible for the defense of American territory as well as coordinating military activities with Canada and Mexico - with Southern Command, a light-footprint headquarters responsible for American military affairs in Central and South America.
The study sets a specific target for reducing the Pentagon's civilian work force by 100,000 over the next decade, in keeping with the diminished number of people in uniform over that time. Because about 30 percent of the Pentagon's civilian work force will be eligible to retire by March 31, 2015, the Defense Department "should be able to accomplish some of the reductions through attrition," the authors say. The study sets a goal of reducing contract employees by at least 15 percent more, which would reduce their numbers to the levels on the payroll in 2003.
In assessing the individual armed services, the study says that "to accommodate budget cuts and the end of two major ground wars," the Army "should transfer up to one-quarter of its active component armored brigades to the reserve component." The report also calls for delaying the Army's next ground combat vehicle until 2021.
Under the report's budget proposals, the Navy would see its carrier fleet reduced to 10 from 11, would truncate its program for the littoral combat ship - designed to fight adversaries near their own shores - and buy more of the older F/A-18 warplane instead of the newer F-35C. It calls for 25 percent of all carrier-based strike aircraft to be remotely piloted by 2025.
The Air Force, according to the report, "should create a new requirement for a long-range, stealthy unmanned strike/intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft in addition to its plans for a new bomber."
They call on the Marine Corps to end its purchase program for the MV-22 Osprey, a tilt-rotor aircraft, and rely more on Navy and Air Force for troop transport missions. 
"The U.S. military should increase interdependence across the four services and among the active and reserve components," the study argues. "Some services and components have acquired substantial assets beyond the requirements of their core missions, and the past 10 years of elevated defense spending have accelerated this trend. While some redundancy provides a useful hedge against risk, today's extensive overlap among and within the services is unnecessary and inefficient, especially when joint interdependencies can yield comparable war-fighting effectiveness at less expense."
No doubt many civilian and uniformed budget planners will push back against the proposals. And expect another round of public debate - and studies - if Congress and the administration fail to strike a budget deal, which could trigger even deeper cuts in Defense Department spending under a punitive fiscal arrangement called sequestration. 

        
A Quick Roundup of the Pentagon's Proposed Budget Cuts
        
A Recap of the Pentagon Briefing on Defense Cuts
        
Panetta Fights Off Questions About a Possible Israeli Strike in Iran
        
Pentagon Counters Dim Assessment of Afghan War
        
The Next War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AIR FORCES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%) Budgets; pentagon; Barno, David W; Federal Budget (US); United States Defense and Military Forces; Center for a New American Security; Defense Department; Afghanistan; Iraq; At War; Budget

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%); US NAVY (55%) Center for a New American Security; Defense Department

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%) Barno, David W

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%) Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



893 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: The Call of the Wild, Answered

BYLINE: SUSANNAH HOPKINS LEISHER


HIGHLIGHT: Hiking along remote reaches of the Appalachian Trail invites reflection on resilience and discovery. 

 BODY:
So, black fly season is upon us. We had about a week of weather mild enough to let the fire go out in our stove, and then they started to hatch! Black flies, for those not familiar with the little critters, are not much bigger than fruit flies, a different type of unpleasantness from the hard-biting green-headed flies encountered at beaches in the Northeast. 
They cluster and hang about, angling for a nip. Bites (maybe only for those of us who are new to them) tend to swell up to the size of almonds and itch a fair bit. 
We decided to ignore the black flies as best we could, tossed school for a day (one of the big pluses of home schooling during our year in the woods), and went off for an overnight hiking trip on the Appalachian Trail. Our aim was a lean-to three miles from the start of the Hundred Mile Wilderness, the most remote stretch of the Appalachian Trail's 2,100 miles, and either the tail end or the soul-stirring start for hundreds of "through-hikers" who take up the Georgia-to-Maine (or Maine-to-Georgia) challenge each year. 
We'd actually been on the first mile of the trail last fall for a day hike and run into the same issues then that we have experienced since our youngest was able to walk: he doesn't want to walk! He's been known to peter out by the time he reaches the end of the parking lot, and last fall, though he got a bit farther, his little legs and spirit just weren't up to more than a pack-free mile or so. 
We still had a blast then, the kids' getting wild in a mountain brook that tumbled across our path and just escaping sprained ankles in the twisted rocks of the tempting little waterfall.

We've always had a wide range of hiking temperaments in the family. While living in Australia, we took a family holiday across New Zealand in a camper van. (Three kids 5 and under in a camper van for a week -- and a busted toilet!) 
Among our New Zealand adventures was an impromptu hike up to a waterfall on the South Island. We had had no intention of making it all the way up, but it was our middle son, not even 4\xC2, who goaded us all the way up to the splendid falls, urging us on at every turn in the trail and savoring the pure water at the top, the first he'd ever had that wasn't from a tap or a bottle. (The youngest, of course, had a free ride all the way up, courtesy of Dad.) 
The middle one wasn't quite old enough to articulate the why -- his why -- of the climb. I think it was the call of the unknown and wild beyond.
Last Friday morning, as we distributed packs in the parking lot, I had my doubts about how far we'd make it before Mom and Dad ended up splitting the entire load. Or, indeed, bailing completely and just coming home. There were those black flies to contend with, and even though I'd bought cheap head nets at the local grocery store, we'd heard so much about the misery of black fly season that I was prepared for the kids to rebel.
But the woods worked their magic on us all. The protected forests of the Appalachian Trail corridor are a dramatic counterpoint to our heavily harvested local woods. Instead of young third-growth woods, important engines of the region's economy, we were surrounded by great old white pine and hemlock, lush carpets of moss over cracked granite and quartz, and undisturbed mountain lakes. 
The flies did discourage us from lingering along the way (they breed in running water), but were more a nuisance than a torment. And each of us delighted in the gradual dimming into oblivion of the road sounds behind us. Our eldest led the way from one white Appalachian Trail blaze to the next, our youngest claimed the trail map and registered our progress against various landmarks, and our middle boy kindly lagged behind to keep me company. 
My muscles are a far cry from their Peace Corps Nepal zenith, but as long as I can take my time with those darn arthritic hips, I can still carry a fair amount and go where I want to go. That's encouraging.
The bottom line is that the kids all made it there and back under their own steam and carried their packs virtually the entire way (with a few brief periods of respite courtesy of Mom and Dad). Indeed, our eldest, with his own frame backpack, carried all of his gear (sleeping bag, pad, clothes, knife) without any problem.
 At the shelter, the kids took charge of the fire (only allowed at official Appalachian Trail campsites), gathering wood and tinder, nursing the flames and keeping the fire going until bedtime. In between bouts of eating and rough-housing inside one of our two bug-free tents, they cavorted in the moss-lined gorge with its deep and swift-flowing ice-cold stream, and at night, after a meal of the spaghetti they get once a week at home but which they insist tastes so much better in the woods, they slept soundly under the stars. No rain, so no need for rain flies over the tents. 
This year has been one of significant physical growth for our boys. Their bodies are filling out, muscles beginning to emerge, chests to strengthen and legs to lengthen, sometimes painfully. So the fact that our youngest managed the longest hike of his life while carrying his fair share and having fun is perhaps not surprising. 
I think that this has maybe also been a year of growth in other ways for our boys. Although they certainly wouldn't put it this way, I think their spirits have grown through being nourished by the mere presence of wild things and vistas, and the absence of bustle and artifice. 
The call of the unknown and wild beyond is, I hope, growing into a call that they both viscerally recognize and know they can answer.

        
On a Mountaintop, Dreaming of the Next Step
        
Rural Life Without the Hard Edges
        
Meditation on the Colors of Nature
        
A Season of Confounded Expectations
        
Counting the Family Carbon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIKING (91%); CAMPING (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (76%); MOUNTAINS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) A year in the woods; Appalachian Trail; camping; hiking; Maine; Camps and Camping; Hikes and Hiking; forests; Living

COMPANY: CALL OF THE WILD INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW ZEALAND (67%); AUSTRALIA (67%) Appalachian Trail; Maine

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



894 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Goal)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: In Mexico, Santos Turns the Tables

BYLINE: KEYVAN ANTONIO HEYDARI


HIGHLIGHT: Santos Laguna defeated Monterrey to win its fourth Mexican league title. 

 BODY:
GUADALAJARA, Mexico - Recent chases for silverware and titles have been a tale of two cities, and three teams from the north of the country, a region gripped by violence and cartels fighting for lucrative drug routes to the United States.
Last Sunday, Santos Laguna of Torren was crowned champion of the Mexican 2012 Clausura tournament, beating Monterrey in the finals. In the semis, it knocked off defending champion Tigres (also of Monterrey) in a dramatic finish. Santos beat Monterrey, 2-1 (3-2 on aggregate), to claim its fourth Mexican title, and break a streak of three second-place finishes in as many recent finals. These include the Concacaf Champions League finals, also against Monterrey (and the 2011 Clausura, when Monterrey was champion).
On Monday, the team celebrated a Mass in a chapel on the grounds of the Estadio Nuevo Modelo, and undertook a parade through the region it represents, known as the Comarca Lagunera (the lake basin). The procession started in a small town, Lerdo, went through somewhat larger Gmez Palacio and finished in Torren, on Avenida Independencia.
"It's incredible how big we are in the whole Comarca Lagunera. It was on par with the pope being in town. Six hours of total mayhem," said Herculez Gmez, an American-born forward who plays for Santos. "It was the passion they were showing."
Work absenteeism in the area was reported to be 80 percent on Monday.
"A great joy, for all these days, for al the people who have deserved this for a while," said Rodolfo Salinas, a midfielder from Torren.
The other local boy on Santos, Oribe Peralta, is the symbol, hero and the team's top goal scorer. Nicknamed Cepillo (hairbrush), he has scored 28 goals in the last two half seasons. From the dodgy working-class neighborhood of La Partida, Peralta scored the two goals against Tigres that sent Santos to the final, and the winning goal in the second leg of the finals.
A natural left-footer, Peralta is now a candidate to strengthen the Mexican Olympic team, and was the goal scorer for the Pan American Games champions. After the final whistle, Peralta and his son joined in a tearful embrace.
"He's the best pure forward I've ever played with. I want him on my team," said Gmez, who underwent physical tests on Tuesday and will was scheduled to join the U.S. national team camp on Wednesday. "We don't even have time to rest. This team has been carefully constructed over the years. It was just a matter of time. world-class facilities, coaching staff. Everything you want in a top team. Santos has it all. The championship is validation."
In August 2011, this was the same stadium where a Santos-Morelia match was suspended by a shootout between police and criminals outside the stadium that produced a Mexican zeitgeist: a panic scene and a scramble by players and fans. The violence is a stigma and a cross both Monterrey and Torren have carried.
"With the negative spotlight this place has received, this [team] is their outlet," said Gmez, whose family lives in Las Vegas. "I've learned to be consistent here. You're under a microscope."
Players are home and indoors by 10 p.m. After the triumph in the final, however, street celebrations lasted until 2 a.m. "It's not easy. I can't just hang out," he said. But the teams from the north - in Monterrey and Torren - attract players because of their economic power (Monterrey and Santos are each owned by breweries), professional administration and serious, huge support.
Santos had lost three finals, to the teams from Monterrey. The Monterrey coach, Victor Vucetich, is known as the King Midas of Mexican soccer. He had won all 12 finals his teams had contested, yet he turned down the Mexican national team coaching position for family reasons. Benjamn Galindo, known as El Maestro, had lost all three finals in which he led Santos.
Novelty: The regular-season leader, el superlder, has finally won the title. The best team won, and ended the curse of the superlder. The last superleader, Chivas, was knocked out in the first round, and not since 2007 had the regular-season leader lifted the trophy.
"There's a reason Santos is always in the finals," Gmez said."The team is full of national teamers. You don't have salary caps in Mexico, so we're competing to play every day against the best."

        
Battle of the Breweries in Mexican Final
        
Tijuana Rising
        
In Mexico, a Double Dose of Derby
        
In Mexico, Violence Scars the Game
        
M.L.S. Cup: A View From Mexico

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); OLYMPICS (72%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (64%) Herculez Gomez; Mexican league; Monterrey; Santos Laguna; Soccer; Santos (Soccer Team); Mexico

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Santos (Soccer Team)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



895 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: An Open Letter to India's Graduating Classes

BYLINE: MOHIT CHANDRA


HIGHLIGHT: Recent grads are spoiled and unambitious, says an Indian manager for a multinational corporation. 

 BODY:
Dear Graduates and Post-Graduates,
This is your new employer. We are an Indian company, a bank, a consulting firm, a multinational corporation, a public sector utility and everything in between. We are the givers of your paycheck, of the brand name you covet, of the references you will rely on for years to come and of the training that will shape your professional path.
Millions of you have recently graduated or will graduate over the next few weeks. Many of you are probably feeling quite proud - you've landed your first job, discussions around salaries and job titles are over, and you're ready to contribute.
Life is good - except that it's not. Not for us, your employers, at least. Most of your contributions will be substandard and lack ambition, frustrating and of limited productivity. We are gearing ourselves up for broken promises and unmet expectations. Sorry to be the messenger of bad news.
Today, we regret to inform you that you are spoiled. You are spoiled by the "India growth story"; by an illusion that the Indian education system is capable of producing the talent that we, your companies, most crave; by the imbalance of demand and supply for real talent; by the deceleration of economic growth in the mature West; and by the law of large numbers in India, which creates pockets of highly skilled people who are justly feted but ultimately make up less than 10 percent of all of you.
So why this letter, and why should you read on? Well, because based on collective experience of hiring and developing young people like you over the years, some truths have become apparent. This is a guide for you and the 15- to 20-year-olds following in your footsteps - the next productive generation of our country. Read on to understand what your employers really want and how your ability to match these wants can enrich you professionally.
There are five key attributes employers typically seek and, in fact, will value more and more in the future. Unfortunately, these are often lacking in you and your colleagues.
1.You speak and write English fluently: We know this is rarely the case. Even graduates from better-known institutions can be hard to understand.
Exhibit No. 1: Below is an actual excerpt from a rsum we received from a "highly qualified and educated" person. This is the applicant's "objective statement:"
Huh? Anyone know what that means? We certainly don't.
And in spoken English, the outcomes are no better. Whether it is a strong mother tongue influence, or a belief (mistakenly) that the faster one speaks the more mastery one has, there is much room for improvement. Well over half of the pre-screened rsums lack the English ability to effectively communicate in business.
So the onus, dear reader, is on you - to develop comprehensive English skills, both written and oral. 
2. You are good at problem solving, thinking outside the box, seeking new ways of doing things: Hard to find. Too often, there is a tendency to simply wait for detailed instructions and then execute the tasks - not come up with creative suggestions or alternatives.
Exhibit No. 2: I was speaking with a colleague of mine who is a chartered accountant from Britain and a senior professional. I asked him why the pass percentage in the Indian chartered accountant exam was so low and why it was perceived as such a difficult exam.
Interestingly (and he hires dozens of Indian chartered accountants each year), his take is as follows: the Indian exam is no harder than the British exam. Both focus on the application of concepts, but since the Indian education system is so rote-memorization oriented, Indian students have a much more difficult time passing it than their British counterparts.
Problem-solving abilities, which are rarely taught in our schooling system, are understandably weak among India's graduates, even though India is the home of the famous "jugadu," the inveterate problem solver who uses what's on hand to find a solution. Let's translate this intrinsic ability to the workforce.
3. You ask questions, engage deeply and question hierarchy: How we wish!
Exhibit No. 3: Consistently, managers say that newly graduated hires are too passive, that they are order-takers and that they are too hesitant to ask questions. "Why can't they pick up the phone and call when they do not understand something?" is a commonly asked question.
You are also unduly impressed by titles and perceived hierarchy. While there is a strong cultural bias of deference and subservience to titles in India, it is as much your responsibility as it is ours to challenge this view.
4. You take responsibility for your career and for your learning and invest in new skills: Many of you feel that once you have got the requisite degree, you can go into cruise control. The desire to learn new tools and techniques and new sector knowledge disappears. And we are talking about you 25- to 30-year-olds - typically the age when inquisitiveness and hunger for knowledge in the workplace is at its peak.
Exhibit No. 4: Recently, our new hires were clamoring for training. Much effort went into creating a learning path, outlining specific courses (online, self-study) for each team. With much fanfare, an e-mail was sent to the entire team outlining the courses.
How many took the trainings? Less than 15 percent. How many actually read the e-mail? Less than 20 percent.
The desire to be spoon-fed, to be directed down a straight and narrow path with each career step neatly laid out, is leading you toward extinction, just like the dinosaurs. Your career starts and ends with you. Our role, as your employer, is to ensure you have the tools, resources and opportunities you need to be successful. The rest is up to you.
5. You are professional and ethical: Everyone loves to be considered a professional. But when you exhibit behavior like job hopping every year, demanding double-digit pay increases for no increase in ability, accepting job offers and not appearing on the first day, taking one company's offer letter to shop around to another company for more money -- well, don't expect to be treated like a professional.
Similarly, stretching yourself to work longer hours when needed, feeling vested in the success of your employer, being ethical about expense claims and leaves and vacation time are all part of being a consummate professional. Such behavior is not ingrained in new graduates, we have found, and has to be developed.
So what can we conclude, young graduates?
My message is a call to action: Be aware of these five attributes, don't expect the gravy train to run forever, and don't assume your education will take care of you. Rather, invest in yourself - in language skills, in thirst for knowledge, in true professionalism and, finally, in thinking creatively and non-hierarchically. This will hold you in good stead in our knowledge economy and help lay a strong foundation for the next productive generation that follows you.
Together, I hope we, your employer, and you, the employee, can forge an enduring partnership.

        
Indians Host Clinton While Also Wooing Iran
        
What is the Ministry of Health Trying to Tell Doctors?
        
BRICS Agitate for a Seat at the Table
        
Signs of an Asian Arms Buildup in India's Missile Test
        
Meet Nancy Powell, the United States' New Ambassador to India

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%) China; India; United States; Careers and Professions; Hiring and Promotion; Labor and Jobs; New York Times; Bangalore (India); Brazil; Japan

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (70%) Bangalore (India); Brazil; India; Japan

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012



896 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: New Rules for Prepaid Debit Cards

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will impose new restrictions on prepaid debit cards, highly profitable products for banks that until now have been mostly unregulated. 

 BODY:
The nation's consumer financial watchdog is preparing restrictions on prepaid debit cards, a largely unregulated product that is flourishing even amid concerns about high fees and poor disclosures.
On Wednesday, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is expected to introduce a preliminary rule for prepaid products - the first of its kind. The bureau, which is expected to complete an overhaul in the next year, will also hold a hearing on Wednesday in Durham, N.C., that will feature testimony from consumer advocates and some of the card industry's biggest players.
Until now, prepaid cards have escaped the regulations passed after the financial crisis. As new rules have targeted credit cards and traditional debit cards, a number of banks barreled into the prepaid market.
 While the consumer bureau's new effort would not rein in most fees that come with the cards, like a $5 monthly maintenance fee, it would require companies to reimburse consumers for unauthorized charges.
Card providers argue that they offer a competitive price and help consumers control their spending. But some federal regulators and consumer advocates worry that companies are steering low-income consumers into a relatively expensive product rather than plain vanilla checking accounts.
"The people who use prepaid cards are, in many instances, the most vulnerable among us," Richard Cordray, the consumer bureau's director, said in a statement, adding that "right now prepaid cards have far fewer regulatory protections" than traditional banking products.
David Newville, policy manager with the Center for Financial Services Innovation, said the proposed regulations would provide much needed transparency.
They are "what we would like to see," he said.
The new oversight would coincide with a boom in the prepaid business. In 2009, borrowers had roughly $29 billion worth of prepaid cards, according to the Mercator Advisory Group, which provides research for the payments industry. By 2013, the volume of money on prepaid cards is expected to swell to $90 billion.
As big banks clamor for customers, they are muscling their way into the market, which until a few years ago was largely the terrain of less traditional financial firms like Green Dot and NetSpend. They also would be subject to the new rule.
In March, Wells Fargo introduced a reloadable prepaid card. And, Regions Financial, based in Birmingham, Ala., unveiled a prepaid card aimed at borrowers who typically do not have a traditional bank account.
JPMorgan announced earlier this month that it would start offering prepaid cards. Branded as "Liquid," the card carries a $4.95 monthly maintenance fee but does not charge customers to add money.
The banks were drawn, in part, because prepaid cards were largely untouched by the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law and other recent crackdowns that have siphoned billions of dollars in income from debit and credit card fees.
The law exempted prepaid cards from the so-called Durbin Amendment, allowing banks to impose high fees on merchants when consumers make a purchase with a prepaid card.
Advocacy groups have questioned whether card issuers clearly explain to cardholders the fees that come with the product, including charges to activate the card, load money on it, check a balance at cash machines and speak to customer service.
Some consumer advocates say the fees erode the money loaded onto the cards. Wells Fargo, for example, charges $3 for customers to withdraw money using a bank teller and $5 to replace a lost card.
A study by Pew, a nonprofit research group, also indicated that some customers were unaware their prepaid cards are not necessarily protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The bureau's new proposal would not address that issue.
But under the bureau's so-called advanced notice of proposed rulemaking, the agency is seeking to apply a longstanding federal rule for debit and gift cards to prepaid products. The rule, known as Regulation E, requires companies to reimburse customers for unauthorized transactions that pop up when a prepaid card is lost or stolen.
Consumer advocates including Adam Rust of Reinvestment Partners cheered the bureau's plan.
"This is why we have a C.F.P.B.," said Mr. Rust, who will join Visa and NetSpend executives among panelists at Wednesday's hearing. "We don't have basic protections in place for these cards."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREPAID CARDS (95%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); DEBIT CARDS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (74%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Consumer Protection; Credit and Debt; Credit Cards; Personal Finances; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); NETSPEND HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (94%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); NTSP (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (72%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



897 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2243 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Facebook I.P.O. Raises Regulatory Concerns | The Facebook initial public offering was supposed to be Morgan Stanley's crowning achievement, but it is turning out to be a big embarrassment, raising broader questions from regulators about the I.P.O. process.
Rival bankers and big investors have complained that Morgan Stanley botched the debut. They contend the bank set the price too high and sold too many shares to the public. Facebook's management team is also shouldering some blame. David Ebersman, the company's chief financial officer, spent more than a year orchestrating the stock offering, drafting the prospectus and meeting with investors long before the company picked its bankers.
Facebook's fate as a public company is hardly sealed. Many newly public companies stumble out of the gate and later become top performers with appealing stocks, a group that includes Amazon.com.
But regulators are concerned that banks may have shared information only with certain clients, rather than broadly with investors. On Tuesday, William Galvin, the secretary of state in Massachusetts, subpoenaed Morgan Stanley over discussions with investors about Facebook's offering. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Wall Street's self-regulator, is also looking into the matter. And the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary L. Schapiro, said on Tuesday that the agency would examine issues related to Facebook's I.P.O., but she did not elaborate. DealBook 
New Rules for Prepaid Debit Cards | The nation's consumer financial watchdog is preparing restrictions on prepaid debit cards, a largely unregulated product that is flourishing even amid concerns about high fees and poor disclosures.
On Wednesday, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is expected to introduce a preliminary rule for prepaid products, the first of its kind. The bureau, which is expected to complete an overhaul in the next year, will also hold a hearing on Wednesday in Durham, N.C., that will feature testimony from consumer advocates and some of the card industry's biggest players.
Until now, prepaid cards have escaped the regulations passed after the financial crisis. As new rules have taken aim at credit cards and traditional debit cards, a number of banks barreled into the prepaid market. While the consumer bureau's new effort would not rein in most fees that come with the cards, like a $5 monthly maintenance fee, it would require companies to reimburse consumers for unauthorized charges. DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
How Much Are Banks Worth to the Economy? | In the aftermath of JPMorgan's trading loss, Eduardo Porter writes in the Economic Scene column in The New York Times that "there is no evidence that we need a financial industry of the huge size and complexity we have." NEW YORK TIMES
Budget Office Says Impasse in Washington Could Lead to Recession | The Congressional Budget Office offered a sobering projection for what has come to be called the year-end fiscal cliff, when several big tax increases and spending cuts are set to take effect, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
PTT Outbids Royal Dutch Shell for Cove Energy | The oil and natural gas exploration company Cove Energy has accepted a $1.91 billion takeover offer from PTT Exploration and Production of Thailand, which trumps a rival bid from Royal Dutch Shell. DealBook 
RailAmerica May Put Itself Up for Sale | RailAmerica, one of the largest operators of short-line railroads in the United States, says it is in preliminary discussions toward a possible sale. DealBook 
SAP Agrees to Acquire Ariba for $4.5 Billion | SAP, which battles with Oracle in the enterprise software sector, will be expanding its cloud-based services with the acquisition. DealBook 
Alibaba Said to Seek $4 Billion of Debt Financing | For its $7.1 billion deal to buy back part of the stake owned by Yahoo, the Alibaba Group is looking to borrow as much as $2 billion from the China Development Bank and another $2 billion from a syndicate of lenders, two unidentified people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Barclays to Receive $5.5 Billion for BlackRock Stake | Barclays said it would receive net proceeds of $5.5 billion from a sale of its entire stake in the asset manager BlackRock, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Italian Banks Sell Stakes in London Stock Exchange | UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo sold the stakes they owned in the London Stock Exchange, pricing the deal at the bottom of an expected range. UniCredit said the sale would add about $153 million to its bottom line, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Greek Banks to Receive Government Support | Greece's four largest commercial banks are set to receive 18 billion euros (about $23 billion) from the government this week to help protect them against losses, bankers in Athens said on Tuesday, according to The New York Times. Uncertainty runs high, as consumers and businesses in Greece continue to withdraw substantial amounts of money from their bank accounts. NEW YORK TIMES
Bank of America Agrees to Buy Back Mortgages | Bank of America agreed to repurchase about $330 million of mortgages from Freddie Mac, saying "the valuation method used at origination did not meet the investor's technical requirements," but that problems had been fixed, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Barclays Said to Plan Sale of All Italian Branches | An unidentified person familiar with the matter tells The Wall Street Journal that Barclays has received three letters of interest for many of its Italian branches. WALL STREET JOURNAL
In Europe, Small Banks Take Advantage of Layoffs | Job losses at large banks and brokerages in Europe have created a pool of available talent for smaller rivals, Reuters reports. REUTERS
A Chinese Goldman Sachs? | The China Securities Regulatory Commission is looking to allow domestic brokerages to expand into arenas like futures and derivatives markets, asset management and private equity, to promote competition with global investment banks, Reuters reports, citing a regulatory document. REUTERS
Swiss Trading House Heads to Singapore | Trafigura, the Swiss commodities trading giant, is moving to the low-tax environment of Singapore, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY 
A Private Equity Veteran Weighs In on Political Debate | Steven Rattner, who formerly was a private equity executive and also an official in the Obama administration, writes in an Op-Ed piece in The New York Times: "On Monday, Mr. Obama struck the right balance, emphasizing that he wasn't attacking private equity but was questioning Mitt Romney's Bain Capital credentials to be the job creator in chief. That's fair, particularly because Mr. Romney himself has been foolishly reweaving history to claim, as recently as last week, that he helped create 100,000 jobs during his time at Bain." NEW YORK TIMES
Warburg Pincus Invests in Energy Exploration Start-Up | Warburg Pincus and other firms agreed to invest $1.25 billion in Venari Resources, an oil and natural gas exploration company that focuses on the Gulf of Mexico, continuing private equity's push into offshore energy exploration. PRESS RELEASE | wall street journal
Patriot Coal Hires the Blackstone Group | Amid speculation that Patriot Coal planned to restructure, the company said it was working with the Blackstone Group on a continuing plan to refinance debt, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Shipping Companies Turn to Private Equity | Firms like Triton Partners and the Oaktree Capital Group are filling a gap left by European banks that are cutting back financing to shipping companies, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Disclosure by Short-Sellers Would Improve Market Clarity | Wild gyrations of stocks based on the barest mention by short-sellers are reviving the debate on whether rules should require disclosures of big short positions, the Deal Professor writes. Deal Professor 
Rajaratnam's Assistant Testifies in Gupta Trial | The former executive assistant for the hedge fund titan Raj Rajaratnam described a call she received from Rajat K. 0Gupta on Sept. 23, 2008, about 10 minutes before the market closed. DealBook 
Hedge Funds Crowd Into Apple | According to the latest Hedge Fund Intelligence report from Street of Walls, Apple stock was by far the most popular position among a group of hedge funds that included firms like Greenlight, Lone Pine and Appaloosa. Other popular holdings included Google and Express Scripts. STREET OF WALLS
Fortress Builds a Mortgage Servicing Firm | The Fortress Investment Group, which owns Nationstar Mortgage Holdings, is buying up mortgage servicing rights in an effort to make Nationstar the largest nonbank mortgage servicer by the end of the year, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Canadian Railway Shut Down by Strike | The strike by about 4,800 workers of the Canadian Pacific Railway came just days after the chief executive stepped down and the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman won a proxy battle for control of the company, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Owners of Getty Images Said to Weigh an I.P.O. | Hellman & Friedman, the private equity firm, is working with Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to study possible options for Getty Images, which include a sale or I.P.O. that could value the business at $4 billion, The Financial Times reports, citing five unidentified people familiar with the plans. FINANCIAL TIMES
Mongolian Mining Company Said to Plan an I.P.O. | Altain Khuder, a Mongolian iron ore mining firm, is looking to raise about $300 million through an initial offering in Hong Kong, an unidentified person with knowledge of the matter told Reuters. REUTERS
Vodafone Says I.P.O. Unlikely This Year | The chief executive of Vodafone, the British telecommunications giant, said a clash with the government of India had led the company to delay an initial public offering, Reuters reports. REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Partner at Kleiner Perkins Claims Sexual Harassment | Ellen Pao, a partner at the prominent venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, is suing the firm, claiming she faced sexual harassment and discrimination and that senior partners did not act on her complaints, the Bits blog reports. The case is sure to be closely watched in Silicon Valley, where women constitute a tiny fraction of investment partners. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Start-Up Raises $200 Million to Deliver Ultrahigh-Speed Internet | Gigabit Squared, based in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, plans to announce on Wednesday that it has secured financing for a project to provide superfast Internet service to six communities surrounding research universities around the country, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Serial Entrepreneur Dreams of Space | Elon Musk, who is best known for helping found PayPal and selling it to eBay for $1.5 billion, "is trying to show the world that a determined entrepreneur can start a rocket company from scratch and, a decade later, end up doing a job that has until now been the exclusive province of federal governments," The New York Times writes. new york times
Video Start-Up Attracts $25 Million | Airtime, which was conceived by the co-founders of Napster, raised $25 million in a Series B round of financing from investors led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, AllThingsD reports. ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
JPMorgan Retains a Former S.E.C. Official | JPMorgan Chase has hired William McLucas, a partner at the law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr and a former head of enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission, as it responds to regulatory scrutiny of its huge trading loss, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
At Hearing, Regulators Discuss JPMorgan Investigation | Two regulators confirmed reports that their agencies had opened investigations into JPMorgan Chase's trading debacle and said they were weighing whether it would reshape rules for Wall Street. DealBook 
Sino-Forest and Executives Charged With Fraud in Canada | The Ontario Securities Commission on Tuesday filed charges against the Sino-Forest Corporation, a Chinese company that once traded in Toronto, and five of its former executives, saying the company had overstated its timber resources and misled investigators. DealBook 
Chairman of Banco Santander Won't Face Tax Charges | The national court in Spain dismissed a tax fraud investigation that focused on Emilio Botn, the chairman of Banco Santander, and his relatives, without any charges being brought, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
A Mutual Benefit Seen in China's Direct Link to Treasury | Experts said that China's arrangement with the Treasury Department, in which it can buy debt directly, bypassing Wall Street, is not secret and could benefit both parties, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
How Google Gets Out of Trouble | The New York Times reports: "The tale of how Google escaped a full accounting for Street View illustrates not only how technology companies have outstripped the regulators, but also their complicated relationship with their adoring customers." NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PREPAID CARDS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SUBPOENAS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); DEBIT CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (95%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (95%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (53%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



898 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: The Problems With Limiting Large Banks

BYLINE: RICHARD E. FARLEY


HIGHLIGHT: If the SAFE Banking Act becomes law, it would, at best, result in more banks "going on welfare" during the inevitable next banking crisis, writes Richard Farley, a lawyer specializing in finance deals. 

 BODY:
"Too big to fail is simply too big," Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio is fond of repeating on the subject of banking regulation. 
On May 9, Senator Brown, the chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection, introduced the SAFE Banking Act - short for the Safe, Accountable, Fair and Efficient Banking Act of 2012. The proposed rule would limit the size of banks and, the senator assures us, prevent another financial crisis and recapture the unfair subsidies given to large banks. It would end corporate welfare for Wall Street megabanks, Senator Brown proclaims. 
As if on cue, the very next day, JPMorgan Chase, the best of the big American banks, announced a $2.3 billion trading loss related to a poorly conceived or executed risk management strategy. Immediately, the "shrink the banks" chorus broke into singing the praises of the SAFE Banking Act as the law to save us from JPMorgan's bad bet and other bank menaces. 
If the SAFE Banking Act becomes law, it would, at best, result in more banks "going on welfare" during the inevitable next banking crisis. At worst, we may see what a bank crisis looks like without the power of the full faith and credit of the United States at the regulators' disposal.
The SAFE Banking Act would impose three limits on the size of banks: no bank could have deposits representing greater than 10 percent of all insured bank deposits; no bank could have nondeposit liabilities in excess of 10 percent of all United States financial sector liabilities; and no bank could have nondeposit liabilities in excess of 2 percent of gross domestic product (3 percent, in the case of nonbank financial institutions).
 These limits seek to reduce federal government exposure to banks that are "too big to fail" by making big banks small enough to safely fail. In the committee report in support of the proposed legislation, Senator Brown describes the safety net that covers the vast majority of liabilities in the American financial system: underpriced federal deposit insurance, access to the Federal Reserve's discount window and the "implicit guarantee" of solvency given to the large banks under the "too big to fail" doctrine. 
"Too big to fail" provides a taxpayer subsidy to the megabanks in the form of bolstered credit ratings that enable them to borrow more cheaply than smaller banks not benefiting from such a guarantee. Break up the big banks, goes the argument, and no bank will be too big to fail. A more even playing field for all banks would result, since none would be unfairly advantaged by lower borrowing costs from an implicit taxpayer-backed guarantee of solvency.
But would we be better off if no bank were too big to fail? And what might happen if all the banks were too small to save?
One thing we know for certain: banks will continue to make loans that will not be repaid, none of which, when initially made, were thought to be bad loans. Many of these bad loans will be discovered to be unsound at the same time across many banks. When the scale of loans going bad all at once is large enough, you will have a banking crisis. 
During the Great Depression, the bad loans precipitating the banking crisis were largely loans to farmers that went bad as a result of the severe agricultural recession. During the savings and loan crisis, it was too much lending for commercial real estate, particularly in the oil regions of the United States, which were devastated after the collapse of crude prices in the mid-1980s. In the 2008 financial crisis, the culprit was subprime residential real estate lending.
At the time of the Great Depression, bank deposits were dispersed among many thousands of small, mostly local community banks - the type immortalized by the Bailey Building and Loan Association in Frank Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life." When the loans went bad, there were thousands of banks with at least enough bad loans to render them insolvent or close enough to insolvent that the banks' depositors and other creditors were not going to wait around. 
More than 9,000 banksfailed during the Great Depression, over 600 in November and December of 1930 alone. During the S.&L. crisis, 1,800 banks failed. Yet during the much more severe 2008 financial crisis and its aftermath, fewer than 450 banks failed; only one, Washington Mutual, was a large bank. 
What might it have been about the structure of the banking industry and the tools available to regulators in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis that limited the carnage to a relatively few banks that, in total, held a systemically insignificant percentage of banking assets and deposits? Certainly, deposit insurance limits bank runs, but most banks have many liabilities that are not insured deposits, many of which are short term and can be called overnight. 
Without question, the "too big to fail" option, even if not implemented, prevents bank runs. And a manageable number of megabanks holding a high percentage of banking assets and deposits contribute to that viability.
In 1970, the top five American banks had only 17 percent of all banking assets. Today, the top five banks have , and the top 10 banks have nearly 80 percent.
In his committee report, Senator Brown argues about the dangers of these big banks and the concentration of assets by invoking the words of others - including Sheila C. Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; Thomas M. Hoenig, former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City; Richard W. Fisher, the Dallas Fed president; and, of course, the omnipresent Wall Street critic Paul Volcker. It is useful for the Senate to consider reasons this concentration might be at least beneficial, and to recognize that just restricting the size of banks is not the solution to averting the next banking crisis.
Consider perhaps the most important meeting held at the height of the 2008 financial crisis. On Oct. 13, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary at the time, summoned the chief executives of nine of the nation's largest financial institutions to Washington. 
The stated purpose of this well-publicized meeting was to coordinate the details of the Treasury's rescue plan. The more important purpose was to convince the financial markets and depositors that federal regulators could, with a few phone calls, assemble in one room, overnight, the executives who controlled an enormous portion of the nation's banking assets and fix their banks' balance sheets (whether they needed fixing or not) and get them home before bedtime. 
The effort worked. Confidence in the solvency and long-term viability of the banking system was restored. Could such an action have worked if 30, or 130, institutions needed to be summoned to represent a comparable portion of the nation's banking assets? And wouldn't that mean that the 30 or 130 institutions would have to be "on welfare" rather than the nine? 
If next time there are a great many smaller banks with bad loans that no one believes will be saved, will they all fail? This seems to look more like the Great Depression model than the current "safety net" model that has served us well.
And what if the executives of those 30, or 130, institutions are not of the caliber of the nine summoned by Mr. Paulson? Whatever their faults and shortcomings, the likes of Jamie Dimon, Lloyd Blankfein, Vikram Pandit and the rest possessed a competence and integrity during the crisis not demonstrated by many senior managers of smaller banks in prior crises. 
Can we forget the appalling incompetence of Neil Bush, director of the defunct Silverado Savings and Loan, or the pornography-obsessed Charles Keating, president of the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, who duped customers out of hundreds of million of dollars? 
Any lawmaker who would have us look back fondly on the George Bailey days of small bank management should remember that it was absent-minded Uncle Billy, kept on the payroll with unabashed nepotism, who nearly collapsed the building and loan because of his inability to execute a simple deposit transaction.
Before we jettison "too big to fail" by breaking up the megabanks, we need to take a careful look at the pitfalls of having banks be too small for us to care.

        
Financial Debate Renews Scrutiny on Banks' Size
        
At Hearing, Regulators Discuss JPMorgan Investigation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); RECESSION (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (63%) banking; great depression; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; s&l crisis; Sherrod Brown; Too Big to Fail; Banking and Financial Institutions; Law and Legislation; Recession and Depression; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Savings and Loan Associations; Another View; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Wall Street

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



899 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Buffett's Goldman Deal Is Topic in an Insider Case

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Byron D. Trott, an adviser to Warren E. Buffett and a former Goldman Sachs vice chairman, detailed how Mr. Buffett's investment in Goldman came about. 

 BODY:
Byron D. Trott has spent a career carefully cultivating the image of the discreet investment banker, a behind-the-scenes consigliere to some of America's wealthiest businessmen, including his star client, Warren E. Buffett. At Goldman Sachs, Mr. Trott was so vigilant about guarding clients' confidences that he was known to fire underlings who discussed private matters in the bank's elevators.
But on Wednesday, Mr. Trott was forced to speak publicly about one of his biggest and most important deals - Mr. Buffett's $5 billion investment in Goldman during the heart of the financial crisis in September 2008.
Mr. Trott took the witness stand for about an hour on Wednesday at the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman director charged with leaking boardroom secrets to his friend and business associate Raj Rajaratnam. Among the accusations is that Mr. Gupta gave Mr. Rajaratnam advance word of Mr. Buffett's Goldman investment.
 The government says that Mr. Rajaratnam traded on Mr. Gupta's tips, reaping big profits for his Galleon Group hedge fund. Convicted by a jury of insider trading last year, Mr. Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence. Mr. Gupta's trial, in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff, began on Monday and is expected to last about three weeks.
Mr. Trott's testimony focused on the days surrounding Mr. Buffett's investment in Goldman, a tumultuous time in the markets. But first, a prosecutor asked Mr. Trott to tell the jury who Mr. Buffett was.
"He's the most respected businessman and investor in America," Mr. Trott said.
Mr. Gupta's lawyer objected to such a superlative.
"I didn't think that was in dispute," said Judge Rakoff, breaking into a smile.
Judge Rakoff posed his own question to Mr. Trott for the jury's sake, exercising more restraint in his description: "Is he a very large and well-known investor?"
"Yes," Mr. Trott acknowledged.
Mr. Trott, 53, has established a niche advising many of the country's richest families, including the Wrigleys and the Pritzkers. As a Goldman banker, he began advising Mr. Buffett in 2002 and has advised his company, Berkshire Hathaway, on numerous deals.
"Byron is the rare investment banker who puts himself in his client's shoes," wrote Mr. Buffett in his 2008 investor letter. Five years before that, Mr. Buffett wrote that Mr. Trott "understands Berkshire far better than any investment banker with whom we have talked and - it hurts me to say this - earns his fee."
The silver-haired Mr. Trott, at ease on the witness stand and at times flashing a broad smile, gave the jury an account of how Mr. Buffett's investment materialized. He described the dark days of September 2008, when Lehman Brothers, which Mr. Trott described as a "second-tier investment bank," had filed for bankruptcy and there were questions about whether other banks like Goldman could survive.
His purpose in testifying, according to people briefed on the prosecutors' strategy, was to explain how quickly the Buffett deal came together and how few people knew about it - other than Mr. Gupta - before it was announced.
"This was about as top secret as you can get," said Mr. Trott, who left Goldman in 2009 to start his own investment firm, BDT Capital Partners.
Mr. Trott, who lives in Chicago, testified that he was at a client meeting near O'Hare Airport on Sept. 22, 2008, when he received a call on his cellphone from Goldman's co-president, Jon Winkelried. Mr. Winkelried told him that Goldman was planning to raise $10 billion in a common stock offering to help the bank address its problems and calm the markets.
Upon hearing the news, Mr. Trott said that he pitched Mr. Winkelried on having Mr. Buffett act as a "cornerstone investor" on the transaction. He said he would fly to New York immediately so he could discuss the idea with the rest of Goldman's top officers.
The next morning, on the 30th floor of Goldman's former headquarters at 85 Broad Street in Lower Manhattan, Mr. Trott outlined a deal that he thought Mr. Buffett would agree to and would also make sense for the bank.
"It was hugely credentializing," he said. "It was like getting the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval."
Later that morning, Mr. Trott said, he had a conversation with Mr. Buffett. Earlier in the year he had floated the idea of investing in Goldman to Mr. Buffett, who rejected the proposal. This time around, Mr. Trott said, the terms would have to be sweeter.
"I have a different proposal for you," Mr. Trott said, according to his testimony.
Mr. Trott offered Mr. Buffett a "preferred with warrants," a complex security that gave Mr. Buffett 10 percent annual interest on a $5 billion investment plus the option to buy additional Goldman stock at a set price.
"I know Warren very well," testified Mr. Trott. "We had done numerous deals together and I knew the structure that he would want."
After Mr. Buffett accepted the terms, Mr. Trott testified, he took the deal back to the bank's senior executives. Around lunchtime, the executives agreed to take the deal to the board for a vote. But before they could do that, they needed to inform Mr. Buffett that the deal had been officially agreed upon. But Mr. Buffett was unavailable until after 2:30 p.m. A prosecutor asked Mr. Trott why.
"He promised his grandkids that he would take them to Dairy Queen" - the ice cream and fast-food chain owned by Mr. Buffett - "and he did not want to be interrupted," said Mr. Trott, eliciting laughter from the jury.
Mr. Trott said that after firming things up with Mr. Buffett, Goldman held a board meeting by telephone at 3:15 p.m. The board approved the investment. Minutes later, the government says, Mr. Gupta called Mr. Rajaratnam and told him to buy Goldman stock. Prosecutors have said Mr. Rajaratnam reaped nearly $1 million by trading before the announcement.
Outside the jury on Wednesday, the prosecution and defense focused on another Goldman employee - David Loeb, a salesman who worked closely with Galleon. 
The prosecutor, Reed Brodsky, said that Mr. Loeb had passed illicit tips about Intel, Apple and Hewlett-Packard to Mr. Rajaratnam. A lawyer for Mr. Gupta said that Mr. Loeb can be heard on a secretly recorded telephone call giving confidential information about those companies.
The defense, which complained to Judge Rakoff that prosecutors had not disclosed evidence about Mr. Loeb, is using the government's investigation of three other Goldman executives to suggest to the jury that there were other sources of inside information within the bank.
Prosecutors have countered that these executives, including Mr. Loeb, had no access to confidential information about Goldman. A Goldman executive declined to comment.
An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of Jon Winkelried as Winkelreid.

        
Dueling Portrayals of Former Goldman Director at Insider Trading Trial
        
Gupta Faces New Charges in Insider Trading Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); SENTENCING (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); JUDGES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); VERDICTS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%) Byron Trott; Goldman Sachs; Insider Trading; Procter & Gamble; Rajat Gupta; Rajat K. Gupta; Buffett, Warren E; Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj; Trott, Byron D; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; Financial Services; Galleon Investigation; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (94%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (91%) Buffett, Warren E; Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj; Trott, Byron D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



900 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Going Negative

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins stay positive as they dissect the advertising strategies of the Obama and Romney campaigns, not to mention the super PACs waiting in the (left and right) wings. 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, why do you think there's so much negative campaigning? The crazy billionaires who want their own nutty super PAC? The years-long presidential races where the candidates just run out of stuff to talk about? Our fraying national moral fiber? Or is it just because it works?
David Brooks: The conventional view is that it works. My view is that it works in some cases. Obama ran plenty of negative ads in 2008, but he won because he rejected the sort of stale campaigning everyone is disgusted by. Now he is running exactly the sort of campaign he once rejected. I don't see how going against your core identity can be a good thing.
Gail: Well, he thought he could end pointless partisan bickering, too.

David: The thing that actually surprises me most is a shift in morals. Of course politicians have always lied. But now dishonesty is seen as a sign you are playing the game the way it should be played. A few months ago Romney ran an ad that took some Obama comments about the economy completely out of context. It was blatantly dishonest, but it was meant to show the world how tough Romney was.
Similarly, Obama's ad about Romney's Bain experience makes two claims. First, that the steel company GST was successful until Bain acquired it. That is blatantly false. Second, that Romney dumped people on the street and cut them off when the company shut down. That too is blatantly false. Romney had left Bain by that point.
Blatant falsity is now seen as a sign that you are a true professional.
Gail: Actually, I just brought up the subject in hopes that we could revert to one of our historical discussions, in which I could point out the terrible things the other side said about Grover Cleveland. But let me get current.
David: Can I just say that there's been a historic decline in the quality of our Grovers. From Cleveland to Norquist. Pretty sad.
Gail: As you know, Mayor Cory Booker of Newark made a big splash over the weekend when he went on Meet the Press and said all the negative campaigning was making him sick. Some Democrats felt he should have said that all the negative campaigning made him sick.
David: That's because some Democrats, like some Republicans, are partisan hacks. At some point it should be possible for politicians to have an honest opinion about their own party, and not just do the talking points. By the way I don't know if you saw the crawlback video Booker released later in the day, but that was painful to watch. So humiliating to see someone collapse under a bit of pressure.
Gail: Let me ask you about the Republican side. As Jeff Zeleny and Jim Rutenberg reported in The Times, Republican strategists were trying to get the billionaire who owns the Chicago Cubs to consider an ad campaign resurrecting the Reverend Wright issue against President Obama. I didn't realize there are still Republicans who are sulking because "crusty old" John McCain wouldn't let them run Rev. Wright ads in 2008. That was pretty much the only shred of the old John McCain that was left in that campaign and I think they should leave it alone.
David: I haven't written much about the Citizens United case, mostly because it is so well ventilated by others at our paper. But it's really awful. One of the truly terrible effects of the decision is that the most reckless and indecent consultants, who have always been floating around the fringes of politics, can now make a great living if they can persuade some billionaire to fund their whack-job ad campaigns. This Wright campaign never got off the drawing board, but a lot of bottom feeders are going to get very rich off Citizens United.
Gail: I hated the Rev. Wright thing because it was nothing but a ploy to capitalize on some voters' uneasiness about Obama's race. And I'd be equally opposed to seeing the Democrats poke around at discomfort about Mitt Romney's Mormonism. You don't run on a guy's religion. I'm sure the Obama campaign won't, but you do have to watch out for those crazy billionaires. Although this year it does seem that the Republicans have pretty much of a crazy billionaire monopoly.
David: That's an interesting point. Republican billionaires do seem crazier than Democratic billionaires. On the other hand, I think Democratic millionaires are more full of themselves than Republican millionaires - or at least that's my observation in Santa Monica, Palo Alto and Manhattan. I think it's because Republican millionaires are humbled by the fact that they are not billionaires.
 Gail: Let's go back to Cory Booker. He was upset about the Obama campaign's Bain Capital ads - an attempt, he seemed to suggest, to "indict private equity." That was, of course, before Mayor Booker felt compelled to revisit and re-explain and rephrase and re-imagine his remarks. But you pretty much agreed with his initial, pre-revision position, right?
David: You betcha. I think there's an enormous body of research showing that private equity firms increase American productivity without having a dramatic effect on American job levels. Back in the 18th century, Thomas Jefferson waged war on capital markets, but Alexander Hamilton understood that only vibrant capital markets would create enough creative destruction to allow poor boys and girls like him to rise and succeed. Otherwise the same established families would dominate society, generation upon generation.
Gail: Since Romney's running on his experience as a businessman, I think going after Bain is totally fair. The nation is going to need to have a conversation about whether Romney made his money by acquiring failing businesses, streamlining them and making them profitable - or whether he bought troubled companies, saddled them with debt, sold their most valuable assets, used the money to give a big payoff to the investors, and then let them sink. Or both of the above. And if it's both, that's very bad for the Romney camp.
David: As I understand Bain's approach, they focused on the firms that were really in the doghouse. There is absolutely no money to be made in acquiring a firm that is already well run. They focused on the really poorly managed companies. As a result they had more failures than their rivals - because some of these companies were terminally ill - but when they succeeded they made a lot more money.
Gail: This debate will have very long legs. But however it turns out, I'm still going to be saying that the government is not very much like a business at all, and that business experience isn't really all that useful in a president. Obama correctly points out that people want an economy that will run well, but they also want a strong safety net for the poor and weak.
David: I agree with that. In private equity, you get to choose what problems you will tackle. In government you don't. Romney's experience matters only if he can convince us that he will reform government in ways that give people the tools to compete in the dynamic economy that firms like Bain help create.
Gail: The talents that make for a good businessman aren't all that useful for a president, who needs above all to be able to hold the confidence and affection of the public, and persuade a raft of other egomaniacal politicians that they ought to go along with what he's trying to do. The five presidents whose prior experience came closest to the term "businessman" were Warren Harding, Herbert Hoover, Jimmy Carter and the two Bushes. You might want to argue whether any given one fit the title exactly, but I think it's fair to say that the group did not, in general, glitter in the Oval Office.
David: George Washington was a decent businessman and Abraham Lincoln was a corporate lawyer. They weren't too bad. But I take your point. The data set is small, but I'd say being a governor is the best preparation for being president. And newspaper columnist. We don't have much management experience, but our omniscience helps counteract that.

        
Playing Left, Right - or Center
        
Super Pac! Super Bad!
        
The Other
        
The Wrath of Grapes
        
Tax Face-Off: Romney vs. Me

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (84%); MARKETING STRATEGY (82%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%) Bain Capital; barack obama; Cory Booker; mitt romney; Political Advertising; Super PACs; Booker, Cory A; Presidential Election of 2012; The Conversation

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Booker, Cory A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (52%) NEW JERSEY, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



901 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: The Next Treasury Secretary

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: Whoever is elected president, there will be a new Treasury secretary come January, and the handicapping has already begun. 

 BODY:
5:47 p.m. | Updated 
With about five months until the election and seven months until the departure of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, Glenn Somerville and Felix Salmon have two of the first goes at guessing his successor.
On the Democratic side, possibilities include Laurence D. Fink of BlackRock, the asset manager; Erskine Bowles, who served on President Obama's National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform; Daniel K. Tarullo, a member of the Federal Reserve Board; and Roger C. Altman, the investment banker.
For the Republicans, the front-runners include Robert B. Zoellick, the head of the World Bank; John B. Taylor, the Stanford economist; Glenn Hubbard, the head of Columbia Business School and a Mitt Romney adviser; and Kevin Warsh, a former member of the Federal Reserve Board.
From the Democratic list, though, one prominent name seems missing: Jacob J. Lew, the White House chief of staff. For one, the White House has tended to promote from within, and Mr. Lew is a trusted aide to Mr. Obama.
On top of that, the main challenge facing the next Treasury secretary, among many challenges, of course, will be fiscal - negotiating reforms of the country's tax code and designing the best way to reduce deficits. As the former director of the White House budget office, Mr. Lew seems like a likely candidate.
Another factor to consider is each prospective nominee's relationship with Congress. The White House, whether Democratic or Republican, will need to work very closely with legislators to devise a package of fiscal reforms in the next term. That has raised speculation that both the Obama and Romney camps might consider politicians in their search for a Treasury secretary.
To that end, Rob Portman seems a possibility for a Republican administration. He served as a budget director during the George W. Bush administration, and currently serves as a senator from Ohio. (He has also won mention as a possible vice presidential choice for Mr. Romney.)
Update: Some -- well, several - interlocutors have pointed out that we had no women on our list, and that several make formidable candidates. On the Republican side, possible contenders include Carly Fiorina, the former head of Hewlett-Packard, and Meg Whitman, its current chief executive. For the Democrats, first is Lael Brainard, the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, whose position was previously held by Mr. Geithner himself. Another possible candidate is Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the Berkeley economist (and an occasional contributor to this blog). Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, is also mentioned as a dark-horse guess.
. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TAX LAW (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (53%) Altman, Roger C; Bowles, Erskine B; Fink, Laurence D; Geithner, Timothy F; Hubbard, R Glenn; Lew, Jacob J; Tarullo, Daniel K; Taylor, John B; Warsh, Kevin M; United States Politics and Government; Treasury Department

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); ROGER ALTMAN (88%); LAURENCE D FINK (87%); KEVIN WARSH (87%); ERSKINE BOWLES (87%); SHERYL SANDBERG (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (55%); ROB PORTMAN (55%) Altman, Roger C; Bowles, Erskine B; Fink, Laurence D; Geithner, Timothy F; Hubbard, R Glenn; Lew, Jacob J; Tarullo, Daniel K; Taylor, John B; Warsh, Kevin M

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



902 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Plan B

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
Dedicated youthful supporters of Ron Paul's campaign for president are setting their sights on influencing Congressional and state races and swarming Republican conventions in an attempt to infiltrate the top echelons of the party, Jonathan Weisman writes. The phenomenon is catching the attention of Republicans from Maine to Nevada.

        
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said the economy could relapse into a recession at the start of 2013 if President Obama and Congress remained at an impasse and allowed several big tax increases and spending cuts to take effect, Jackie Calmes reports.

        
In his first Senate race in 1976, Senator Orrin G. Hatch led a one-man conservative uprising in Utah and helped shape the very idea of the insurgent candidacy in modern politics, Kirk Johnson reports. Now Mr. Hatch is the latest Washington veteran hoping to fend off a Tea Party challenge.
Around the Web:

        
The Bain back-and-forth reached a new high - or low - on Tuesday when the Obama campaign issued a statement condemning Representative James E. Clyburn's accusation that Bain Capital has been "raping" companies, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington:

        
The director of the Secret Service, Mark Sullivan, will testify before the Senate homeland security committee about the prostitution scandal involving agents and other officials before President Obama arrived for an April summit meeting in Cartagena, Colombia.

        
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Secretary of Defense Leon E. Panetta and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will testify before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee about the law of the sea.

        
As part of National Missing Children's Day, a group of law-enforcement officials will be honored at the 17th annual Congressional Breakfast for their efforts in resolving cases.

        
The United States Postal Service will hold a dedication ceremony for a new line of "forever" stamps commemorating great film directors.

        
The Early Word: A Subtler Message
        
The Early Word: Uncharted Territory
        
The Weekend Word: Pet Projects
        
The Early Word: Deep Pockets, Political Dreams
        
The Early Word: Gloves Off

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LAW OF THE SEA (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (66%); SEX SCANDALS (66%); SCANDALS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); OCEANS (50%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RON PAUL (73%); ORRIN HATCH (73%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); LEON E PANETTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



903 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: New Obama Ads Focus on Medicare and Veterans

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Obama campaign focuses on swing states with a new round of ads. 

 BODY:
President Obama's campaign on Wednesday rolled out two new ads promoting his achievements, part of a $25 million advertising effort that his campaign unveiled this month.
In one ad, titled "Personal," Mr. Obama's campaign brags about efforts the president has made to protect Medicare from scams and fraud, and says he is working to "preserve Medicare now and for the future.
The ad cites the president's upbringing by his grandparents to suggest that his desire to protect health care for the elderly is an important matter to him personally.
In the other ad, Mr. Obama highlights what he calls a "sacred trust" that the country owes the nation's veterans. The president says in the ad that it's "not enough" to give speeches about veterans when they come home from battle.
The ad also gives Mr. Obama's campaign the opportunity to once again mention his decision to kill Osama bin Laden. It uses grainy, green-tinted video from the raid while Mr. Obama praises the soldiers who went on the operation.
Both ads are part of a broad effort by the campaign to target swing voters in about a dozen battleground states. The campaign has said it will use the $25 million announced earlier entirely for spots designed to highlight the president's record in office.
But the Democratic campaign is also waging a fiercely negative campaign against Mitt Romney as well in an effort to describe the Republican as a corporate raider whose business experience does not provide the kind of values Americans want in the White House.
To that end, Mr. Obama - and the "Super PAC" backing him - are also running ads featuring the stories of people who were laid off from companies purchased by Mr. Romney's private equity firm, Bain Capital.
In response, Mr. Romney's campaign released a Web video on Wednesday morning titled "Stories from the Obama Economy."
In the video, workers are shown saying they had been laid off or have not been able to find a job.
"I expected great things from the president when he was elected and now it is just a feeling of disappointment that he has not been able to fulfill all the things, all of the changes that he talked about," a woman says in the ad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (67%); PRIVATE EQUITY (63%); ELDER HEALTH (55%); AGING (55%) bin Laden, Osama; Romney, Mitt; Medicare; Political Action Committees; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Bain Capital; United States; The Caucus

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) bin Laden, Osama; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



904 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Obama More Conservative Than Hoover? Someone Thinks So

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: Jay Carney volunteered an extensive and robust defense of Barack Obama against Republican charges of fiscal recklessness, telling reporters aboard Air Force One that Herbert Hoover was a more profligate spender than President Obama. 

 BODY:
COLORADO SPRINGS - It's not every day that a White House boasts of being more conservative than Herbert Hoover. But there was Jay Carney, the presidential press secretary, on Wednesday telling reporters aboard Air Force One that Mr. Hoover was a more profligate spender than President Obama.
Clearly unimpressed by the questions he was getting from reporters, Mr. Carney volunteered an extensive and robust answer to one that was not asked, defending Mr. Obama against Republican charges of fiscal recklessness. He read a passage from Rex Nutting of MarketWatch stating that spending under Mr. Obama had grown even more slowly than under Mr. Hoover.
"The president has demonstrated significant fiscal restraint" and applied a "balanced approach" to spending, Mr. Carney said as Mr. Obama headed here for the Air Force Academy commencement. Mr. Carney added pointedly that any reporting to the contrary would be the result of "sloth and laziness." He added a familiar attack on former President George W. Bush's "tax cuts for the rich," which "contributed significantly to the red ink that was gushing" when Mr. Obama took over.
The commentary cited by the White House concluded that spending is rising just 0.4 percent a year under Mr. Obama. But such calculations depend on when you start counting. Mr. Nutting starts from the first full fiscal year under Mr. Obama, which started Oct. 1, 2009, more than eight months after he took office, because that is the first budget the new president could fully shape. His calculation also assumes that spending will fall in the next fiscal year as currently projected by the Congressional Budget Office.
Counting that way relieves Mr. Obama of any responsibility for any increased spending in his first months in office, when he pushed through Congress a stimulus package of about $800 billion in spending and tax cuts. Between the 2008 fiscal year, the last in which Mr. Bush was president for the full year, and the 2009 fiscal year, when both Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama were president for part of the year, total federal spending increased to $3.5 trillion from $3 trillion, or 17 percent. Each president would like to assign blame for that to the other.
The White House boast of fiscal restraint came on a day when Mr. Obama's former budget director suggested the president actually needed to open up the federal spending spigot to pump up the economy. Peter R. Orszag, who was Mr. Obama's first director of the Office of Management and Budget, cited one proposal calling for another $600 billion in stimulus spending, nearly as much as Mr. Obama's 2009 package.
Mr. Orszag, writing for Bloomberg View, was making the case for more spending now, coupled with deficit reduction later. During his time in the White House, Mr. Orszag often argued for such a combined approach, but was derided by some of his colleagues as being too focused on long-term deficits at a time when they believed the economy needed more federal spending.
In his column, Mr. Orszag said the two sides of the stimulus-versus-austerity debate should come together to approve a short-term spending boost along with mandatory steps to reduce the deficit down the road when the economy has improved. He said past efforts to impose discipline in future years have been successful, citing the gradual increase in Social Security retirement age.
"Those who are most worried about our long-term fiscal health shouldn't fret too much about additional stimulus today, if it is combined with future budget cuts," he wrote. "Stimulus now would have only a modest long-term impact on national debt. So if it can lead to a deal, while also easing short-term pain from unemployment, what's not to like?"

        
White House Calls Weiner Behavior a 'Distraction'
        
White House Corrects Bin Laden Narrative
        
Deputy Press Secretary Leaving White House
        
Carney's First Press Briefing Draws a Crowd
        
Press Aide's Name Floated for Congress

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); AIR FORCES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%) Jay Carney; Carney, Jay; Hoover, Herbert Clark; Obama, Barack; Federal Budget (US); Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); PETER ORSZAG (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Carney, Jay; Hoover, Herbert Clark; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (91%) COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



905 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: New Polls Underscore Close Presidential Race

BYLINE: ALLISON KOPICKI


HIGHLIGHT: Several new surveys of the presidential race indicate that President Obama and Mitt Romney are competing in a tight contest heading into the summer. 

 BODY:
Two new national polls show a close race between President Obama and Mitt Romney, while a new Florida poll shows Mr. Romney with a lead in a crucial swing state. 
The polls show that Americans are mostly concerned about the economy and that few say their vote will be affected by other issues swirling around the campaigns in recent weeks, including same-sex marriage and the candidates' backgrounds. 
Among registered voters, Mr. Obama had the support of 47 percent to Mr. Romney's 43 percent in an NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey conducted May 16 to 20, within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 
Mr. Obama had more positive ratings among Americans than Mr. Romney, 49 percent to 34 percent. But 52 percent disapprove of Mr. Obama's handling of the economy, and about 4 in 10 voters say his policies have worsened the economic downturn.

According to the NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, most Americans say Mr. Romney's background in business (which includes his years at the private equity firm Bain Capital) is an advantage on a number of economic issues, including improving the country's overall economy and job situation, and reducing the federal budget deficit. 
A majority of voters said the candidates' positions on gay marriage would not affect how they voted.
The poll showed it was too early to tell if the Obama campaign's criticisms of Mr. Romney's dealings while at Bain Capital were making any headway: when asked to rate their feelings on the firm, a majority said they didn't know.
An ABC News/Washington Post poll conducted May 17 to 20 showed Mr. Obama ahead of Mr. Romney by three percentage points among registered voters, a difference within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points. 
The ABC News/Washington Post poll also showed Mr. Obama's vulnerability on the economy, with 16 percent of Americans saying their financial situation had improved under his presidency, and 3 in 10 saying their finances had become worse. Voters were split over who would do a better job handling the economy or creating jobs. 
A slim majority of Americans said Mr. Obama has the better personal character to serve as president, compared with nearly 4 in 10 who say Mr. Romney's character would make for a better president. 
The recent allegations in a Washington Post article that were dismissed as a campaign issue by most Americans, with nearly three-quarters saying it was not a serious matter, and the same number saying it was unfair to bring up a candidate's high-school past. 
Mr. Romney has developed a lead in Florida, with 47 percent of voters saying they would support the former Massachusetts governor over 41 percent for Mr. Obama, according to aQuinnipiac University survey conducted May 15 to 21. A poll in early May showed the candidates essentially tied. 
A majority of Florida voters say the president does not deserve re-election, with 44 percent approving of his job performance in office and 52 percent disapproving. 
Floridians are divided over same-sex marriage, with 4 in 10 supporting it and half opposing. Half of the voters said it was not an important issue to their vote, and about 6 in 10 voters said either candidate's position on same-sex marriage would not make a difference to their vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (97%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (51%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Quinnipiac University; Washington Post; The Caucus

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Quinnipiac University; Washington Post

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2012



906 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; PROPERTY VALUES; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: What You Get for ... $360,000

BYLINE: By MIKE POWELL

 BODY:
PITTSBURGH
WHAT: A brick town house with three bedrooms and two and a half baths
HOW MUCH: $349,900
SIZE: 2,300 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $152.13
SETTING: This house is in Manchester, a historic district of Victorian-era row houses and single-family houses just across the Allegheny River from downtown Pittsburgh. The neighborhood was originally part of Allegheny, a city later annexed by Pittsburgh and home to many steel barons. (Several of their mansions still remain.) During the mid-20th century migration to the suburbs, many of Manchester's estates were divided into apartments or fell into disrepair. A push by Manchester residents in the 1970s to revitalize the neighborhood led to its designation as a city historic district.
Manchester is within a couple of miles of several major landmarks and attractions, including stadiums for both the Pirates and the Steelers, the Andy Warhol Museum, the city aviary and the Carnegie Science Center. Downtown Pittsburgh is about two miles away, across the Allegheny River. A few different bridges cross the river, available for cars, pedestrians and bicycles. 
INSIDE: This Second Empire row house was built in 1876 and completely renovated about eight years ago. The current owners collaborated with architectural salvage groups, antiques dealers and carpenters to fit out the house with period light fixtures, beveled-glass transoms and other details, while retaining the original hardwood floors on the first and second levels. The front door opens onto a foyer; through new French doors to the right of the foyer is a living room with a gas-log fireplace and an antique marble mantel. Off the living room is the formal dining room, which also has a gas-log fireplace with an antique slate mantel. The renovated kitchen has stainless-steel appliances, including a four-burner Thermador range fitted into an exposed brick wall.
An original walnut staircase leads to the second floor. The master bedroom, which overlooks the garden, is here. Its en-suite bathroom has a claw-foot tub and a pedestal sink. The other second-floor bedroom, with a wood-burning fireplace with a marble mantel, functions as a family room. Another bedroom is on the third floor in what was formerly the attic.
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on three-quarters of an acre, and shares a large garden with its next-door neighbor. The garden, which has a wisteria arbor and flagstone sitting area, has been featured on a garden tour.
TAXES: $2,219 (approximately)
CONTACT: Mario F. Costanzo, Howard Hanna, (412) 901-1725; howardhanna.com
BRADENTON, FLA.
WHAT: A five-bedroom craftsman with three and a half baths
HOW MUCH: $359,000
SIZE: 3,760 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $95.48
SETTING: Bradenton is a coastal city of about 50,000 people in central-west Florida. This 1914 house is on a palm-lined street a block inland from the Manatee River in Wares Creek, a historic neighborhood of bungalows, Spanish colonials and other types of houses dating to the early 20th century. In the late 1990s, a neighborhood association helped restore single-family zoning in the area, halting the conversion of houses into apartments, the listing agent said.
Downtown Bradenton, which is adjacent to Wares Creek, is the city's central business and municipal district. The area's commercial corridor, Manatee Avenue, is about a block north of this house.
INSIDE: This neoclassical-style craftsman was last renovated around a decade ago, when its current owners bought it. There's a large screened-in wraparound front porch with Saltillo tile floors laid down by the current owners. Inside, original distinguishing details include narrow-plank oak floors and beveled, leaded and stained-glass windows on the first floor. Through the front door, there's a living room with a decorative fireplace, a coffered ceiling and beveled windows. The formal dining room also has a coffered ceiling. The current owners updated the kitchen with wood cabinets and a natural-gas stove. A family room is at the back of the house on the first floor, also accessible from the wraparound porch. One of the room's walls is rounded and paneled with leaded and stained-glass windows. The room also features a decorative white-brick fireplace.
The five bedrooms are upstairs. The master, at the front of the house, has an en-suite bathroom with original tiles. The second floor has a sleeping porch. A mother-in-law suite is above the garage.
OUTDOOR SPACE: There's a front yard, and a patio shaded by live oaks and a pergola.
TAXES: $2,067
CONTACT: Maryann Lawler, Keller Williams Realty, (941) 587-4623; mymanateehomes.com
GALISTEO, N.M.
WHAT: An adobe with three bedrooms and three baths
HOW MUCH: $354,000
SIZE: 1,885 square feet
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $187.80
SETTING: Galisteo is about a 25-minute drive south of Santa Fe. About 260 people live in the small village, most of them transplanted artists and writers, or families who have been in the area for generations. The village, in the Galisteo basin, is bordered by large ranches on several sides, including a 24,000-acre property owned by the designer Tom Ford. This house, built in the 1870s, is perched on a hillside behind the village church, a 17th-century structure overlooking the basin. The nearest shopping is in Eldorado, a residential community about 15 minutes north by car, with Santa Fe offering even more.
INSIDE: This adobe was last updated in the early 1990s. There are two entrances, both through sets of French doors on opposite sides of the house's living-and-dining room. The house is filled with elements of traditional New Mexican design, including Saltillo tile floors in the kitchen, original vigas (wood-beamed ceilings) and talavera tiles in the bathrooms. The living-and-dining room has a wood-burning fireplace. The house has three bedrooms: one off the kitchen, and two, including the master bedroom suite, off the living room. Adobe houses were traditionally built small and expanded as the family grew. The master suite was a likely addition, and has a walk-in closet, an en-suite bathroom and doors opening to the front porch.
OUTDOOR SPACE: The house is on three-quarters of an acre, with a walled courtyard along one side. On another side of the house, there are ruins that appear to date from the 1870s. The land has views over Galisteo and toward the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of the federally protected Pecos Wilderness.
TAXES: $2,187.48
CONTACT: Amber Haskell, Santa Fe Properties, (505) 470-0923; santafemove.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SUBURBS (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (65%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (56%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



907 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT and VINOD SREEHARSHA

 BODY:
LAST-MINUTE OFFER The oil and natural gas exploration company Cove Energy said on Wednesday that it had accepted a takeover offer from PTT Exploration and Production of Thailand. 
The announcement of the deal, which values Cove at $:1.22 billion ($1.91 billion), allowed PTT to trump a bid from Royal Dutch Shell, whose previous offer of $:1.12 billion had been accepted by Cove Energy's board. ''The bid from PTT represents significant value for shareholders,'' Cove's chief executive, John Craven, above, said in a statement. MARK SCOTT
AMENDED BID The British drug maker GlaxoSmithKline changed the terms of its $2.59 billion proposed takeover of Human Genome Sciences on Wednesday in response to the biotechnology company's shareholder rights plan, or poison pill.
Last week, Human Genome Sciences had adopted the poison pill as a defensive strategy to ward off Glaxo's takeover approach. In response, Glaxo said it had added a condition to its bid, requiring Human Genome Sciences to either redeem the poison pill or ensure that the strategy would not block Glaxo's approach for the company. MARK SCOTT
BRAZILIAN EXPANSION Sequoia Capital is expanding to South America, becoming the latest Silicon Valley stalwart to tap into the region's growing economy, according to two Brazilian investors with direct knowledge of the plans.
The venture capital firm plans to send one of its partners, David Velez, to Brazil in July to head up its regional office, likely to be in Sao Paulo. Doug Leone, above, a Sequoia partner, went to Brazil in December 2010 to look for potential investments and entrepreneurs looking to expand, according to the two investors. VINOD SREEHARSHA
RETURN ENGAGEMENT JPMorgan Chase is naming Joseph A. Walker as senior vice chairman of its investment banking unit, according to an internal e-mail obtained by DealBook.
Mr. Walker, who previously spent 22 years working at JPMorgan both in Asia and New York before leaving the firm in 2001, will be based in New York and will start later this month. MARK SCOTT
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (91%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (55%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL (58%); SEQUOIA CAPITAL (55%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%); GSK (NYSE) (84%); GSK (LSE) (84%); BIOC (EGX) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); PTTEP (SET) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (54%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) BRAZIL (94%); THAILAND (88%); UNITED STATES (86%); SOUTH AMERICA (78%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



908 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: New Fervor for Cutting Costs Among Hospitals and Insurers

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
Giselle Fernandez is only 17 but she has had more than 50 operations since she was born with a rare genetic condition. She regularly sees a host of pediatric specialists, including an ophthalmologist, an endocrinologist and a neurologist at UCLA Health System. Her care has cost hundreds of thousands of dollars so far, and she will need special treatment for the rest of her life.
While UCLA Health System has long prided itself on being at the forefront of treating patients like Giselle, it is now trying to lower sharply the cost of providing that care. By enrolling young patients with complex and expensive diseases in a program called a medical home, the system tries to ensure that doctors spend more time with patients and work more closely with parents to coordinate care. The program has cut emergency room visits by slightly more than half.
The effort is part of a much broader ambition by UCLA Health System to reduce its costs by 30 percent, or hundreds of millions of dollars, over the next five years, according to Dr. David T. Feinberg, the system's president. 
''We have definitely found religion,'' Dr. Feinberg said.
After years of self-acknowledged profligacy, hospitals, doctors and health insurers say there is a strong effort under way to bring medical costs under control. Their goal is to slash the rate of growth in the nation's $2.7 trillion health care bill by roughly half to keep it more in line with overall inflation.
Private insurers, employers and government officials are providing urgency to these efforts, and the federal health care law passed two years ago helped accelerate them.
Even if the Supreme Court decides next month to declare the entire law unconstitutional, many experts in the field say the momentum is likely to continue.
''Regardless of what happens to the law, the market will force the system to become more efficient,'' said Paul H. Keckley, the executive director of the Deloitte Center for Health Solutions, a research arm of the consultant Deloitte.
The drive to lower costs is resulting in numerous efforts. UCLA Health System is scrutinizing its use of imaging procedures on patients in the cardiothoracic intensive care unit. Over the last year, the average number of X-rays per patient each day was reduced to two, from 10.
The Cleveland Clinic, another medical powerhouse that has little difficulty attracting patients and demanding high prices, is trying group visits for diabetic patients so more people can be seen at a lower cost. The clinic has started reminding its surgeons about the $400 price of a unit of blood as a way of discouraging unnecessary transfusions, which along with other changes in patient care last year helped save $4 million. The clinic's medical residents also can no longer order as many expensive tests as they want. ''What we're talking about is driving the value equation,'' said Dr. Delos M. Cosgrove, the chief executive for the clinic.
These efforts include trying to keep the health system's own employees healthy by enlisting them in wellness programs or, as at UCLA, eliminating fried food in the cafeteria.
''Nobody has died because the Tater Tots are gone,'' said Dr. Feinberg.
Many of those involved say the impetus should come directly from hospitals and doctors.
''The medical community needs to transform care,'' said Dr. Thomas L. Simmer, the chief medical officer of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, the state's largest insurer.
By collaborating with Michigan hospitals to share best practices, Blue Cross estimated it achieved savings of $233 million over three years.
Despite the flurry of activity, many caution that these efforts may not succeed in saving money. Many previous programs failed in the end to reduce costs or improve care. And many people within the industry are still wedded to the status quo, said Dr. Michael W. Cropp, the chief executive of Independent Health, an insurer in Buffalo. Dr. Cropp has been vocal about the need to address rising costs.
''The mind-set shift is beginning, albeit too slowly,'' he said.
Experts also warn that many of these initiatives will take time to work, especially since the more tests and procedures they do, the more money doctors and hospitals get. But there are also signs that insurers, which traditionally have focused on paying hospitals and doctors the least they can, are working much more closely with providers to improve care.
In Michigan, for example, Blue Cross financed an effort to have the state's major hospitals compare results in areas like bariatric or general surgery so that they could reduce infection rates and surgical complications. The insurer never sees data that identifies individual hospitals, and the hospitals meet regularly to discuss how they can learn from one another to improve care.
''There's basically a 'leave your guns at the door' attitude,'' said Dr. Darrell Campbell, the chief medical officer for the University of Michigan Health System.
The program's benefits extend far beyond Blue Cross's own customers, according to the insurer's calculations. Only a third of the savings was attributable to patients it insured. Unlike previous attempts by insurers to reward individual hospitals for quality and efficiency, the program tries to help all hospitals improve.
The earlier efforts, which focused on overly specific measures or reporting on individual hospitals, ''tended to inspire providers to do the least necessary to achieve the incentive rather than the most to transform care,'' said Dr. David Share, a senior executive at Blue Cross.
In other cases, health insurers are collaborating with hospitals and doctors through new models like so-called accountable care organizations, which coordinate the care for a group of people. In early 2010, Blue Shield of California teamed with a San Francisco-based hospital system, now Dignity Health, and a large medical group, Hill Physicians, to provide coverage for 40,000 members of the California Public Employees' Retirement System in Sacramento. Blue Shield promised to keep premiums flat the first year and increase them as little as possible afterward.
Simply by working together, the three were able to reduce the number of times patients had to be readmitted to the hospital by 15 percent. Previously, the insurer, the hospital and the medical group had each assigned a case manager to the same patient, but patients were still failing to schedule follow-up visits with their doctors and were not getting clear instructions about their care when they left the hospital.
''None of the case managers from the three organizations were talking to each other,'' said Paul Markovich, an executive vice president of Blue Shield.
In the end, the hospital was deemed responsible for follow-up care, even though it had the least incentive to prevent a patient from returning, he said.
Before the program, ''there's no way we could even contemplate doing that,'' Mr. Markovich said.
The hospital system says it is committed to more affordable care, which is why it agreed to work with Blue Shield in the first place.
''We do think there is a problem with cost,'' said Michael D. Blaszyk, the chief financial officer for Dignity Health.
''Our goal was not to ramp up our profits,'' he said. ''Our goal was not to lose money on this.''
Patients also benefit. Sandra Fernandez, Giselle's mother, said she appreciates that the doctors at Mattel Children's Hospital UCLA are now well versed in her daughter's condition so that she does not have to go through the complicated history repeatedly. Giselle's condition involves developmental delays, and she has also been treated for hypothyroidism and seizures, and the program ensures that she is connected to all the right specialists.
''For me as a mother, it was easier to communicate,'' said Ms. Fernandez, who speaks Spanish, through an interpreter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Giselle Fernandez with her mother, Sandra. Giselle sees specialists in a program coordinated by UCLA Health System. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); INSURANCE (87%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); DIABETES (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



909 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Houston Tries to Find a Use for Its Fading Astrodome

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and DANIEL CADIS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Dust is the only thing that rests on the roughly 65,000 red seats of the Astrodome these days. The bright green AstroTurf would trip up any wide receiver headed out for a pass: it lies not smooth and flat but bunched up in waves, as if the victim of a slow-motion earthquake.
Amid the cracked entrance ramps and the faded ticket booth signs, the stadium once called ''the eighth wonder of the world'' has become a different sort of wonder: the biggest vacant building in the fourth-largest city in the country, a nine-acre hollow that officials of Harris County spend up to $3 million annually to maintain and secure, though the last major event there was in early 2008. 
In the more than four years since, the fate of the Astrodome has been a question mark. After the loss of its anchor tenants more than a decade ago -- the Houston Oilers football team and the Houston Astros baseball team -- plans to turn the Astrodome into an upscale convention hotel fell through. In 2008, the city's fire marshal closed the building and declared it unsafe to occupy. In 2010, a study estimated that demolishing it would cost $128 million, an option that many officials and Houstonians have been reluctant to consider.
The building -- the world's first domed and air-conditioned stadium when it opened in April 1965, designed for both baseball and football -- was the prototype for a generation of American sports stadiums and helped introduce Houston to the world, as its Astrodome hosted Muhammad Ali and Elvis Presley, rodeo cowboys and Hurricane Katrina evacuees.
''We have to make a decision,'' said Harris County's top elected official, County Judge Ed Emmett. ''We can't have this venerable icon of Houston and Harris County history look like a rusting ship in the middle of the parking lot.''
On Wednesday, the stadium gained a tentative new direction.
A team of consulting firms recommended renovating the Astrodome and turning it into a multipurpose facility that would host events like in-the-round concerts, football and soccer games and basketball tournaments, at a cost to the county and its taxpayers of $210 million. It was one of four options presented to the Harris County Sports and Convention Corporation, which oversees the stadium.
The other three options were keeping the stadium as it is and doing nothing, tearing it down to build an outdoor plaza or turning it into a multipurpose facility, but with added retail, dining and entertainment attractions.
Turning the Astrodome into a multipurpose center was tied to a plan to redevelop the Reliant Park complex, which includes the Astrodome, and replace the nearby convention site, Reliant Arena. Those two projects, replacing the arena and turning the Astrodome into a multi-use site, would cost the county $523 million, not counting the $30 million in debt the county still owes on the Astrodome. The multipurpose facility is the most expensive publicly financed option for the Astrodome's future, a touchy subject in a city that collects only sales and property taxes.
''Given the economic climate of the country, the question of money is going to weigh heavily on this debate,'' said the executive director of the sports and convention corporation, Willie P. Loston, who performed on the floor of the Astrodome in 1965 as a member of the Phillis Wheatley High School band. ''It's going to cost millions of dollars to bring it down or rehabilitate it to the point where it is usable and productive.''
The corporation's board of directors voted Wednesday to send the consultants' recommendations to the Commissioners Court, the county's governing body, for further action.
The Astrodome sits in the middle of the Reliant Park complex. This year, the Astrodome played only a bit part in one of the city's biggest events, the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo: its doors shuttered, the stadium merely held up giant banners. When the 71,500-seat Reliant Stadium was built next door to the Astrodome in 2000, there was no clear purpose for the Astrodome. ''The driver at that time was, 'Let's go get the stadium done and then find a purpose,' '' said Mark Miller, the general manager of Reliant Park. ''We've literally spent the last 12 years trying to find that purpose.''
On a recent tour of the stadium, now known as the Reliant Astrodome, save for the distant sounds of construction workers decommissioning elevators and the echoing footsteps of the tour guide, Mr. Miller, the building was a cavern of quiet. Plywood blocked the entrances and exits of the escalators. The stadium that gave AstroTurf its name now had some of the stuff rolled up and strewed about, waiting for an insurance company's inspection after an electrical fire caused water damage.
''Be kind to her,'' said Mr. Miller, as he stood in an outdoor corridor. ''She's a good building.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Mark Miller, general manager of Reliant Park, which includes the Astrodome, closed since 2008. The stadium's decline is evident in its rumpled AstroTurf. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); SPORTS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); BASKETBALL (67%); SOCCER (67%); TOURNAMENTS (65%); JUDGES (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%); RODEOS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON OILERS (55%); HOUSTON ASTROS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



910 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: The New Masters of Parsons

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
EVEN from across the classroom, there was something that stood out about the jacket on Lucia Cuba's dress form. A simple design on canvas, it was printed with repeating black-and-white photographs of a small boy standing at attention. You might have thought the jacket verged on adorable.
Or you might have thought that, until the designer, wearing arty green glasses and an expression that said she was glad you asked, explained that the boy in the picture was actually Alberto K. Fujimori, the former president of Peru, who, though a popular leader, has been linked with a number of human rights abuses, including the forced sterilization of thousands of women in the 1990s.
''When you know who this guy is, you wonder what is going on here,'' said Ms. Cuba, 31, who holds multiple degrees from universities in her native Lima, with an unlikely combination of specialties: public health, psychology and her current field of study, fashion design. 
''I like to think of my garments as agents of change,'' she said.
In the Seventh Avenue fashion department of Parsons the New School for Design, Ms. Cuba is one of 18 aspiring designers who have been challenged, over the last two years, to look at the field of fashion design as something more than the practice of making of clothes.
On a recent afternoon in a small studio there, Beckett Fogg, 24, from Lexington, Ky., perched over a table studying a length of creamy white chiffon with a dimpled pattern that has not existed in fashion before, namely because it was made on a press intended for the manufacturing of leather car seats in Newark. At the next table, Ruby Hoette, 29, and Elisa van Joolen, also 29, who met as undergraduates at Gerrit Rietveld Academie in Amsterdam, were trading theories of collaborative design while creating works made of repurposed parts from existing garments.
Last week, those students were among the first to complete a new M.F.A. program in fashion design that has drawn enormous interest from the industry. The big designers on Seventh Avenue, and certainly the luxury conglomerates of Europe, have traditionally viewed Parsons as the premier design school for fashion in the United States yet somehow inferior to its counterparts in Europe, especially Central Saint Martins in London. As Donna Karan, one of the most famous designers to come out of Parsons (though she famously failed her draping course in 1968 and did not receive a degree until nearly two decades later), said, ''This was not where companies went when they were looking for creative directors.''
Much like American fashion as a whole, Parsons, deservedly or not, has had a reputation for being more focused on the commercial than the creative. In 2006, Ms. Karan, at a cost of several million dollars, endowed a chair at Parsons to modernize its approach to fashion education, by incorporating elements of culture, politics, economy and ecology.
Simon Collins, the dean of the school of fashion at Parsons, downplayed rivalry with the London school. ''We have a proud focus on business and design,'' he said. ''The fashion world needs both schools.'' But he couldn't resist a little dig. ''If anything,'' he said, ''our M.F.A. has strayed into territory that was previously considered their territory.''
At a presentation of the students' thesis projects last week, mounted in a raw office space on Broadway, the reaction was widely enthusiastic. Julie Gilhart, a fashion consultant who works with companies like Amazon, described the work as looking as if it belonged in a professional showroom. In fact, she borrowed a dress from one of the designers, Noriko Kikuchi, whose luminously white dresses were designed to convey an ''absence of color,'' to wear to a Costume Institute event a few nights later.
''I didn't feel like I was at any kind of college-student design function,'' Ms. Gilhart said.
Ms. Karan, as she toured the work, said, ''The difference between what it has been and what it is now gives us reason to be optimistic.''
The class of 2012, in many ways, reflects the global ambitions of Parsons, and the changing dynamics of the industry, with students coming from Taiwan, China, Japan, Peru, England, Australia, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Korea, Norway and Ireland -- and, of no small note, only one was born in the United States. That was Ms. Fogg, whose undergraduate degree from the University of Virginia was in architecture. All but one of the students in the first graduating class are women.
Originally, 20 students had been accepted in the program, chosen by Shelley Fox, the director of the M.F.A. program and a former lecturer from Central Saint Martins. Two of them were asked to leave after the first semester because their work did not measure up, Ms. Fox said. The annual tuition is roughly $40,000, though some of the students received scholarships from the school, and several found sponsorship along the way from companies that donated materials for their design projects.
Ms. Fox said she wanted to create something that resembled a working studio for designers. The curriculum consisted of a series of challenges, like creating a design inspired by the Alexander McQueen exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, or by working with designers like Ms. Karan and Olivier Theyskens. There were also courses examining fashion theory. In one lecture, looking at consumerism and culture, the students compared Mr. McQueen with Steve Jobs.
Talia Shuvalov, 24, from Australia, studied fashion design at the University of Technology, Sydney, and had spent some time in London for an internship with Mr. McQueen in 2009. While that experience exposed her to a workplace with incredible creativity, where designers could spend weeks sketching prints by hand, she said she had doubts about living in London and also about herself. She decided to apply to Parsons.
When she arrived here, the first project assigned to the students was called ''a hole in the map.'' Each was given a map with a hole marking a destination where they were to go to find inspiration. Ms. Shuvalov found herself on Bayard Street in Chinatown, facing a fish market. After some hesitation, she approached the owner of a bodega and asked to purchase an old sun-bleached paper lantern. The paper became her pattern.
''I have grown so much, I don't even know the designer I was when I got here,'' Ms. Shuvalov said.
Her thesis collection was one of the best received, and yet, hanging on a rack, it appeared to be nothing more than jeans and sweatshirts. On closer inspection, however, the details revealed themselves in three-dimensional effects created through meticulous quilting. The concept was based on her own compulsive shopping habits, Ms. Shuvalov said, when she realized she was repeatedly buying the same items -- T-shirts, jeans, sweatshirts -- and piled them in stacks in her wardrobe. So designing jeans based on her own stack of jeans is something of a pointed statement.
''It becomes the look,'' she said. ''I like conceptual design that has a specific purpose.''
Their work says a lot about how young designers today see fashion. Some of the graduate collections were surprisingly refined, like the minimalist and sophisticated tailoring of Jun Juyeon Hong, 32, or the sculptural designs of Claire Diederichs, 26, which combined multiple fabrics to emphasize certain body parts, like the shoulder or side. (Ms. Diederichs made her design choices based on a study of the body language of people passing one another on the sidewalk.) Others were intended to be politically provocative, like that of Ms. Cuba, who also designed outfits using text taken from national health law that refers to contraceptive rights.
Still, their work is unified by a sense of realism. Nothing in the graduate presentation, which will be repeated in September with a show during New York Fashion Week, suggested that one could not wear the designs, which is most likely a reflection of their practical work experience. Many of the students had already worked at full-time jobs, or took internships during their studies, and a few were tempted by job offers before they had completed the M.F.A. program. Ms. Fogg said she had to turn down a job offer from Cynthia Rowley.
Carly Ellis, 24, from Liverpool, England, was working at the London streetwear label Cassette Playa when she was accepted at Parsons. The concepts of process and research, she said, had been completely foreign to her. But she took an internship with Marc Jacobs and applied herself enthusiastically to the various projects, to the point that she once found herself nearly arrested.
That was in March of the first year. Ms. Ellis, more than the other students, was inspired by the styles she discovered on the streets, particularly in the neighborhood of Bedford-Stuyvesant. For one project, in which the students were asked to show how they would sell their designs, Ms. Ellis asked several men she saw there to pose for photographs wearing a neon-printed jacket and holding a sign that said, ''Buy Carly Ellis.''
''They weren't going for it,'' Ms. Ellis said. So she printed up a bag of T-shirts and offered one to anyone who would let her take a picture, which worked, ''but the next thing I know, I'm lying on the ground with my hands behind my back,'' she said. ''The police thought I was street hustling.''
Having talked herself out of that pickle, Ms. Ellis went on to graduate and, to her great relief, has several interviews lined up for respectable work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STUDENT WORK: Among the thesis collections of the first students in the new M.F.A. program in fashion design at Parsons the New School for Design are designs by, from left, Elisa van Joolen, Talia Shuvalov and Carly Ellis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARA STRICKER (SHUVALOV) )(E1)
THE CLASS OF 2012: The graduates of the new M.F.A. program in fashion design, endowed by Donna Karan and meant to incorporate elements of culture, politics and economics. Clockwise from top left, thesis work by Soojin Kang, Sinead Lawlor, Jade Rozenbroek and Jun Juyeon Hong. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ADDED DIMENSIONS: Lucia Cuba, from Peru, above, used images of Alberto K. Fujimori, and Beckett Fogg, below center, used fabric made on a car-seat press. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PERU (91%); CUBA (91%); EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



911 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Toll Brothers, Orders Up, Beats Profit Expectations

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Toll Brothers, the luxury-home builder, reported a second-quarter profit that beat estimates as orders rose in an improving housing market.
Net income was $16.9 million, or 10 cents a share, for the three months through April, compared with a loss of $20.8 million, or 12 cents a share, a year earlier, the company said Wednesday. The average estimate of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for a profit of 3 cents a share. 
The housing market in the United States is stabilizing as rising employment and record-low mortgage rates lure buyers. Toll Brothers, based in Horsham, Pa., benefits from increased demand for move-up homes and a wealthier customer base with access to cash and credit.
The company said quarterly orders surged 47 percent from a year earlier in a robust spring selling season.
''Orders were the belle of the ball,'' Stephen East, an analyst with the International Strategy and Investment Group, wrote in a note Wednesday. ''This sits distinctly at the top of our rosy expectation.''
Purchases of new homes in April increased 3.3 percent from the previous month to an annual pace of 343,000, the Commerce Department said. The rate was 316,000 a year earlier.
The improving real estate market is enabling buyers to sell starter houses and move up to larger properties, including those offered by Toll. Sales of previously owned homes rose 3.4 percent in April to a 4.62 million annual rate, the first increase in three months, the National Association of Realtors said on Tuesday in Washington.
Toll's home-building revenue for the quarter increased 17 percent from a year earlier to $373.7 million. Closings rose 14 percent to 671 homes.
Orders climbed to 1,290 homes from 879 a year earlier. The company's backlog, an indication of future sales, rose 37 percent to 2,403 homes. By value, the backlog jumped 49 percent to $1.5 billion.
''It appears that the housing market has moved into a new and stronger phase of recovery,'' the chief executive, Douglas C. Yearley Jr., said in a statement announcing the earnings. ''The spring selling season has been the most robust and sustained since the downturn began.''
The average price of a Toll Brothers home under contract was $585,000 in the second quarter. The company said the average price of closings in the next two quarters would be $560,000 to $580,000.
The company expects to deliver 2,700 to 3,200 homes in the 2012 fiscal year, with closings in the fourth quarter about 10 percent higher than in the third.
Toll rose 2.7 percent to $27.75 Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have gained 36 percent this year, matching the advance in the 11-member Standard & Poor's 1500 Homebuilding index.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Toll Brothers development being built in Elgin, Ill. The company reversed a quarterly loss. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY & INVESTMENT GROUP INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



912 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Climbed in April, Building Optimism

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The spring home-selling season got off to a strong start in April, the Commerce Department said Wednesday, with rising sales and prices providing evidence that a housing market recovery was gaining some traction. 
The residential real estate sector has been the Achilles' heel of the economy ever since the housing bubble burst. Data this week, however, has painted an upbeat picture for the market and underscored the economy's resilience.
''The recent buoyancy in housing market activity has raised hopes that this beleaguered sector may finally be on the verge of a rebound,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior macro strategist at TD Securities in New York.
New-home sales increased 3.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted 343,000-unit annual rate, the Commerce Department said. Compared with April last year, sales were up 9.9 percent.
The report came on the heels of news on Tuesday that home resales hit a two-year high, with the sector getting support from investors who are increasingly seeing value.
Even more encouraging, the median price for both new and previously owned homes surged last month, a further sign of life for a market that has struggled to come back from its 2006 collapse.
The median price of a new home rose to $235,700 last month, up 4.9 percent from a year ago.
A separate report from the Federal Housing Finance Agency showed house prices in March were up 2.7 percent from a year ago, the largest gain since November 2006. The increase reflected a 1.8 percent rise in March from February, the biggest monthly increase on records dating to 1991.
Still, prices by the finance agency's measure remain about 18 percent below the peak reached in April 2007. Other measures suggest prices have even further to climb to make up the lost ground.
''Even though we have seen home prices start to turn, our concern is that in the second half of the year as more foreclosures come into the market, we could see a dip in prices,'' said Jeremy Lawson, a senior economist at BNP Paribas in New York.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); STATISTICS (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (52%); BNP (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



913 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Strike Shuts Down Canadian Pacific Railway

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- Resource companies and manufacturers in Canada faced disruptions after a strike shut down the Canadian Pacific Railway early Wednesday morning.
The strike by about 4,800 locomotive engineers, yard workers, conductors and rail traffic controllers came just days after Fred Green stepped down as the railroad's chief executive and William A. Ackman, the activist American investor, won a proxy battle for control of the company. Canadian Pacific has about 15,000 miles of track in North America and controls an effective duopoly over rail traffic in Canada with the Canadian National Railway. The mining, forestry, agriculture and energy companies which form much of the Canadian economy depend heavily on rail shipments. And key manufacturing industries, particularly automakers, also rely on trains. 
Because of Canadian Pacific's economic importance, Lisa Raitt, the federal labor minister, met with officials from the railway as well as the Teamsters Canada Rail Conference in Ottawa on Tuesday.
Ms. Raitt ended walkouts at Air Canada through legislation and there was speculation in Canada on Tuesday that the Conservative federal government may intervene in the Canadian Pacific shutdown after citing its negative economic impact. While the Air Canada legislation was condemned widely by unions, it appeared to be popular with travelers.
It was not clear early Wednesday what forced the strike. The Teamsters only announced the walkout through a post on Twitter and indicated that negotiations would resume later in the day. In a statement issued on Saturday, the union said the main stumbling blocks were ''work rules, fatigue management, and the pension plan, which the employer wants to cut by 40 percent.''
Canadian Pacific had no immediate comment. But on Saturday it said that its employees pension benefits must become ''industry-comparable.''
At Ms. Raitt's request, Canadian Pacific agreed on Tuesday to an offer from the union to continue operations of commuter services which use the company's tracks and crews in Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver, British Columbia.
The strike, however, will shut down a small number of intercity routes. Via Rail Canada, the government owned passenger rail system, said in a statement on Tuesday evening that trains between Ottawa and Toronto may be canceled as well as service on a remote line in northern Ontario.
Rocky Mountaineer Rail Tours said late Tuesday that some of its of its luxury trips in western Canada along Canadian Pacific lines would be disrupted.
While Canadian Pacific's new board is just beginning the hunt for a new chief executive, Mr. Ackman has been promoting E. Hunter Harrison, the former chief executive of Canadian National, as his ideal leader. While Canadian National has a long history of poor relations between management and unions, union leaders argue that it deteriorated during Mr. Harrison's tenure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL TRAFFIC CONTROL (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY CO (92%); CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY LTD (92%); AIR CANADA (57%)

TICKER: CNR (TSX) (92%); CNI (NYSE) (92%); CP (TSX) (92%); CP (NYSE) (92%); AC.A (TSX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



914 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Advantage, Home

BYLINE: By TREVOR PRYCE

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
COLLEGE PARK, Md. -- An Aston Martin, a Bentley and a Jaguar are among the cars parked at the Tennis Center at College Park. Through the door of the private club one will find luxury locker rooms; 30 courts; a health club; and an office, about 120 square feet with one window, that was once a makeshift apartment the janitor called home.
From 1999 to 2010, its tenants were three members of the Tiafoe family: Constant and his twin boys, Francis and Franklin. 
While Tiafoe, the center's maintenance man, made his rounds, tending to the courts and emptying the trash bins, Francis would follow, occasionally drifting away to hit a few balls. The costs of elite tennis are prohibitive for many parents -- the full-time junior program here is $27,500 a year -- but Francis had ready and free access to the sport and some of the best coaches because of his father's job.
From that unusual arrangement, a young tennis star was born. Today, Francis Tiafoe, 14, is the nation's top-ranked boys player in his age group.
''It could be argued that Francis is the luckiest kid in the world,'' Ray Benton, the tennis center's chief executive, said. ''It was pure serendipity. He didn't pick tennis; tennis picked him.''
When the French Open begins May 27, analysts and fans will lament the state of men's tennis in the United States. John Isner is the top-ranked American at No. 10, and he is hardly considered a formidable threat to win a Grand Slam tournament. The last American man to win a major was Andy Roddick, at the 2003 United States Open. If Francis continues his ascent, he could be the country's next, best hope in the sport -- a notion that would have been inconceivable to his parents when they immigrated from Sierra Leone in the early 1990s.
Tiafoe and his wife, Alphina, had twin boys in 1998, and two years later he took a job on the construction crew that was building the tennis facility.
''I worked harder than everybody else as I was the only black guy on the crew,'' he said.
When the club was completed, Tiafoe was hired to do maintenance. Responsible for opening and closing the center, and everything in between that did not directly involve tennis, he often slept only three hours a night. His starting salary was $21,000 a year. When the staff told him he could stay in the spare office, he made it a home for him and the boys, who stayed at least five days a week. The rest of the time the children stayed with Alphina, who lived with relatives in a one-bedroom apartment in nearby Hyattsville.
''We didn't have a certificate of occupancy, so I was really nervous about telling people he lived in a back room,'' Benton said.
Alphina said she liked the arrangement because the center was a safe haven from her blighted neighborhood.
At first, no one at the center paid much attention to the boys. But the boys, especially Francis, paid attention to the action on the courts. Frank Salazar, one of the coaches, said that from the time Francis was 4 ''he had a tennis racket in his hands.'' For years, Francis would watch instructors give lessons to older boys.
''When we would get done training the bigger boys, he would roll the basket out there and try to serve by himself or play some mini-tennis with whoever had a few minutes,'' Salazar said.
''Suddenly he started to get really good. He's probably watched more tennis than all the kids here combined.''
When Francis was 8, Mikhail Kouznetsov was hired to coach at the club's Junior Tennis Champions Center. He became a second father of sorts to the Tiafoe children. Alphina called him ''a godsend and a miracle.''
''I would come in early, around 5, 6 a.m., and wake the boys up to play and feed them balls or whatever,'' Kouznetsov said. ''Me and my wife loved them, so we helped feed them, buy them shoes and when we needed to, we drove Francis to tournaments and paid his entrance fees out of our own pockets.''
Constant Tiafoe left his maintenance job at the center in 2010 and is unemployed. The family now lives in the apartment in Hyattsville.
But the boys remain immersed in tennis almost exclusively. Francis said he had no friends outside the center. His girlfriend, he said, is also a world-class player there.
The Tiafoe boys' development was not always smooth. Franklin also exhibits impressive skills on the court, along with some petulance.
''You would know Franklin is playing because all you would hear is curse words ringing from somewhere in the courts,'' said Ken Brody, who founded the Junior Tennis Champions Center in 1999. ''Roger Federer was the quintessential hothead when he was a junior. They grow out of it.''
Schoolwork can be a struggle for Francis, and the fitness regimen and practice drills sometimes flustered him.
''I'd give him a C in gym glass,'' said Frank Costello, the senior director of fitness. ''There's good days and bad days.''
But Francis' results on the court have been so promising that shortcomings may be easy to dismiss. In January he won the boys' singles title at an international tournament in Bolton, England. A week later, he won Les Petits As, a prestigious tournament in Tarbes, France, which attracts many of the world's best young players.
He now has endorsement deals with Adidas and Wilson.
''I knew I was going to play pro tennis when I was 12,'' Francis said.
''Tennis is my life.''
Correction: May 29, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about Francis Tiafoe, a top-ranked boys tennis player who learned the game while his father was a janitor at a tennis center, misstated the dimensions of the office at the center that his father turned into a makeshift apartment. It was about 120 square feet, not 120 feet square.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Francis Tiafoe, 14, during a conditioning session in College Park, Md. He is the top-ranked boys player in the United States in his age group. (B10)
 Francis Tiafoe said, ''I knew I was going to play pro tennis when I was 12.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); RANKINGS (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS CARS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (75%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012



915 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; DESIGN NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1912 words

HEADLINE: Going With the Grain

BYLINE: By JULIE LASKY

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
ANDREW MAU had a man bun -- or rather, two of them. ''A bun and a thing,'' Mr. Mau said, referring to the stylish knot of hair perched high on his scalp and the smaller tuft gathered near his collar. If it's not the coiffure you associate with the ancient vocation of woodworking, you clearly did not spend time at the International Contemporary Furniture Fair, which on Tuesday ended its annual four-day run at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
Mr. Mau, 25, designer and production manager of Studio Dunn, a two-year-old furniture company in Providence, R.I., was part of an army of youthful exhibitors who were rocking on the heels of their pointy-toed leather shoes or fuzzy polka-dot sneakers as they introduced updated versions of such hoary designs as Shaker chairs and gentlemen's valets.
Studio Dunn's Corliss chair, for instance, was a supple handmade fusion of cast-aluminum back and maple seat and legs that paid tribute to George Henry Corliss, the inventor who improved the steam engine. 
''All of our new pieces are named after game-changers in industrial design and transportation design,'' Mr. Mau said.
At Richard Watson's booth, one looked in vain for the wrinkly codger who produced an 18th-century-style highboy and accompanying stool. But it turned out that Richard Watson wasn't elderly. In fact, Richard Watson isn't a person at all, but a New England furniture brand that bears the surnames of its female founders, Brooke Richard, 34, and Laura Watson, 33.
''My initial inspiration was preciousness,'' Ms. Richard said, indicating the $18,000 highboy's white bronze pulls, hammered by a jeweler, and the contrasting walnut fronts and maple sides intended to give each drawer, when removed, the appearance of a keepsake box.
For as long as factories have efficiently spit out objects, craft has been an antidote to the chilly uniformity of mass production. Fragrant knotty furniture of one variety or another has always appeared at this fair, along with the occasional woven tapestry and thrown pot. This year, however, craft, with its quirks and nicks, threatened to overshadow the sleek machined goods that are a calling card of the 23-year-old event.
Wafting through the convention center and satellite design exhibitions around town was nostalgia for preindustrial and early industrial technology. Members of the British group Designers in Residence, which presented the exhibition ''Tools for Everyday Life,'' were typical in their adoration of gleaming brass rivets, which they embedded into lamps, and the gauges and shims used at machine shops, which they turned into building blocks.
Where were the cheeky midcentury motifs of recent years? The bathroom hardware company Lefroy Brooks's Belle Aire tub faucet, with fins like a 1950s automobile, looked as out of place as a poodle skirt on Louisa May Alcott.
Vintage charm is one thing, but craft really seized attention this year by turning itself into theater.
At Wanted Design, an exhibition in Chelsea that ran concurrently with the fair, the furniture company Bernhardt Design sponsored a blue-jean-making demonstration. Employees of Raleigh Denim stitched on antique sewing machines that had been transported to New York from their workshop in North Carolina. The buttonhole machine, which dated to 1940, had leather belts and produced the sound of a machine gun, appropriate for a tool made during World War II, pointed out one of the company's founders, Victor Lytvinenko.
At the Standard hotel at Cooper Square, one of several sites that made up the pop-up NoHo Design District, James Carroll, a woodworker with the Dublin company Makers & Brothers, sat in front of a plate-glass window, hewing chunks of Catskills ash to make three-legged stools.
And back at the convention center, Hellman-Chang dramatized the struggle between human and hand tool by setting up a workbench, where the furniture company's publicist was spotted trying to sculpture a table leg with an implement intended for shaping wheel spokes. ''It's pretty safe,'' Eric Chang, a founder of Hellman-Chang, assured an onlooker. ''I'm more worried about the wood.''
With a workshop in Brooklyn, Hellman-Chang exemplifies the growing self-assurance (and visibility) of that borough's design community. The fair featured a record 51 exhibitors from Brooklyn this year, about 9 percent of an international crowd that included Denmark, Spain and Japan (not to mention Manhattan).
Brian Volk-Zimmerman, who builds furniture in Red Hook, Brooklyn, under the company name Volk, displayed a child's stool with the name Abigail embedded in round vintage typewriter keys, and a walnut dresser and hutch with a sliding panel of Harris tweed.
''It's got to be the will of the public,'' Mr. Volk-Zimmerman said about the popularity of handmade furniture. ''I'm succeeding at making money, although it's a difficult business model.''
Heirloom pieces are appealing purchases, Mr. Volk-Zimmerman suggested, because they're forever. And forever is another word for sustainable.
In the Venn diagram of the modern American marketplace, the intersection of lovers of luxury and friends of the environment is growing. Refinement, authenticity and restraint define the products that are coveted in this territory. Which explains the appearance of so much natural stone at this fair, like the slabs of white marble topping both an austere wood block in Phase Design's Nemesis coffee table and a wire basket in Blu Dot's Scamp table. Such materials offer both elegance and the appearance of green cred, even if they are clawed from the earth.
The business of craft is taking off well beyond Brooklyn, too. On view at the convention center was British Bone, a ceramics collection directed by Emily Johnson, a fifth-generation scion of a family that began manufacturing porcelain in North Staffordshire, England, in 1882. Working with the designer and curator Suzanne Trocme, Ms. Johnson is reviving the region's industry by producing contemporary pieces by herself, Ms. Trocme and the British designer Max Lamb.
By no means was industrial technology absent from the fair, but much of it assumed an attitude of humility, seizing every opportunity to hide itself. Big Ass Fans tucked a direct-current motor into the core of its new Haiku ceiling fan to achieve a slimmer profile while increasing efficiency so dramatically that the fan is said to consume roughly $5 a year in electricity. Equally striking were the periodic gusts of air Haiku emitted, which mimicked natural breezes and which the company literature describes as a Whoosh. But that, too, was invisible.
Similarly, the lighting company Pablo introduced an LED ceiling fixture called Cielo that integrates the transformer required to dim the light, rather than exiling it to a bulky external box. And even a lamp as attention-getting as Humanscale's Halo, a glowing brass ring hung from a wall peg and controlled remotely, is a ''look, Ma, no wires'' invention.
On the whole, exhibitors kept things simple.
Colin Cobb, a fabricator in the studio of the New York lighting designer Lindsey Adelman, used technical language to explain the process of assembling lamps with bespoke brass components and blown-glass spheres. But the small band of spectators at the convention center who watched him work had no trouble following his descriptions, perhaps because of the terminology he used. Each suspended glass globe had a slightly different weight, Mr. Cobb said. So in order for the lamp to balance, ''It has to be zhuzhed just right.''
Designing a Better Design Week
EARLY last Saturday, Takeshi Miyakawa, 50, a Japanese-born furniture designer, was hanging illuminated shopping bags in trees in Brooklyn when he was arrested on the suspicion that he was planting bombs. Mr. Miyakawa protested that he was preparing an art installation to coincide with what is informally known as New York Design Week, a cluster of exhibitions, lectures and parties that take place during the International Contemporary Furniture Fair. Nevertheless, he was held in police custody for four days before being released.
It is a sober commentary on the stature of New York design that Mr. Miyakawa's arrest was Design Week's most newsworthy event. But that may change now that influential designers, business owners, cultural leaders and local government officials are uniting to promote the design industries' prominence.
Design Week NYC is the working name of a city-supported initiative, set to begin next year, that would enlarge the scope of the annual New York design festival, making it comparable to popular design weeks in Milan, London and Paris.
The idea of bringing together architects, designers, manufacturers and sellers to create a more robust public presence is not new. This latest effort emerged last fall from conversations among representatives of local design organizations, including WantedDesign, a two-year-old exhibition and event program that takes place in May, and the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum. Then, on Feb. 9, Christine Quinn, speaker of the New York City Council, publicly declared her support for an annual design event along the lines of Fashion Week. Citing data from ''Growth by Design,'' a report on the economic contributions of New York's design industries released last year by the Center for an Urban Future, Ms. Quinn said: ''We have more designers than any city in the United States, with nearly 40,000 New Yorkers working in everything from graphics to movie sets, architecture to interior decorating. We'll grow our design sector by stealing an idea from the fashion industry.''
On April 9, 55 designers, design leaders and journalists met with representatives from her office and from NYC & Company, the city's marketing and tourism bureau. The discussion hinted at the difficulties in uniting the variegated and disparate strands of New York's design professionals. Attendees challenged everything from the initiative's proposed name to its communications platform.
It took Fern Mallis, the founder of Fashion Week, to galvanize the assembly. Ms. Mallis, who established a progressive but ill-fated design center in Long Island City in the 1980s, recounted the struggle to make the semiannual fashion event and its allied Fashion's Night Out program a success. (Today, they attract 300,000 visitors and reap more than $800 million in revenue.)
Later, Ms. Mallis compared the relative dedication of Europeans and Americans to design. ''In Italy and France, it's a part of the culture from the get-go,'' she said. ''There have been hundreds of years of caring about those disciplines.
''It's not an American thing. It needs to be.''
Her prescription is to ''identify the key talents and players and make them sexy, make them like the fashion designers.''
First, though, the initiative needs leadership -- and financing.
Correction: May 31, 2012, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about crafts experts at the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in New York misidentified Andrew Mau's position at Studio Dunn, a furniture company in Providence, R.I. He is a designer and production manager -- not one of its founders, a distinction held solely by Asher Dunn. And an accompanying picture caption referred incorrectly to a highboy designed by Richard Watson.The highboy is nameless;it is not a ''Piazza highboy.'' (The photographer who took the picture of the highboy is Michael Piazza.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE ART OF CRAFT: Examples of handmade modern interpretations of traditional pieces at the fair include Lindsey Adelman's Curiosity Vessels, top left, the Piazza highboy by Richard Watson, right, and the Corliss chair by Studio Dunn.(D1)
Clockwise from left: the May chair in teak by Miles & May
a credenza with aluminum-nail ornamentation by Peter Sandback
and Rope Lights by Tanya Aguiniga.(D6)
Clockwise from far left: Jan Kath's Erased Heritage carpet, made to look like a decaying heirloom
Volk's Ladderback chair, ''for hanging clothing or magazines,'' the designer suggested
Pablo's dimmable LED Cielo lights
Studio Dunn's Bristol Console table
the Norwegian designer Beate Einen's Perception of Density bowl, filled with Styrofoam balls
Steve Oh's A Collection table and chairs
and Suzanne Trocme's porcelain egg cup for British Bone.
Top left, Matt Gagnon's Knit Fort
above, Lefroy Brooks's Belle Aire faucet
right, a pillow covered in Margo Selby's Fitzgerald textile
far right, Jack Craig's PVC series stools.
Clockwise from right: Humanscale's Symtra lamp
Humanscale's Halo lamp
Pop Up Factory stool
Kast van een Huis cabinets
Perch chair by Pierre Favresse at ''Nouvelle Vague'' show at WantedDesign
 and Grow House Grow's Tackapousha wallpaper. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN LE DU)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (76%); FURNITURE MFG (76%); MACHINE SHOPS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (71%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (54%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012



916 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Know Your Presidents: Thriftier Than Hoover? Perhaps

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
COLORADO SPRINGS - It's not every day that a White House boasts of being more conservative than Herbert Hoover. But there was Jay Carney, the presidential press secretary, on Wednesday telling reporters aboard Air Force One that Mr. Hoover was a more profligate spender than President Obama.
Clearly unimpressed by the questions he was getting from reporters, Mr. Carney volunteered an extensive and robust answer to one that was not asked, defending Mr. Obama against Republican charges of fiscal recklessness. He read a passage from Rex Nutting of MarketWatch stating that spending under Mr. Obama had grown even more slowly than under Mr. Hoover. 
''The president has demonstrated significant fiscal restraint'' and applied a ''balanced approach'' to spending, Mr. Carney said as Mr. Obama headed here for the Air Force Academy commencement. Mr. Carney added pointedly that any reporting to the contrary would be the result of ''sloth and laziness.'' He added a familiar attack on former President George W. Bush's ''tax cuts for the rich,'' which ''contributed significantly to the red ink that was gushing'' when Mr. Obama took over.
The commentary cited by the White House concluded that spending is rising just 0.4 percent a year under Mr. Obama. But such calculations depend on when you start counting. Mr. Nutting starts from the first full fiscal year under Mr. Obama, which started Oct. 1, 2009, more than eight months after he took office, because that is the first budget the new president could fully shape. His calculation also assumes that spending will fall in the next fiscal year as currently projected by the Congressional Budget Office.
Counting that way relieves Mr. Obama of any responsibility for any increased spending in his first months in office, when he pushed through Congress a stimulus package of about $800 billion in spending and tax cuts. Between the 2008 fiscal year, the last in which Mr. Bush was president for the full year, and the 2009 fiscal year, when both Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama were president for part of the year, total federal spending increased to $3.5 trillion from $3 trillion, or 17 percent. Each president would like to assign blame for that to the other.
The White House boast of fiscal restraint came on a day when Mr. Obama's former budget director suggested the president actually needed to open up the federal spending spigot to pump up the economy. Peter R. Orszag, who was Mr. Obama's first director of the Office of Management and Budget, cited one proposal calling for another $600 billion in stimulus spending, nearly as much as Mr. Obama's 2009 package.
Mr. Orszag, writing for Bloomberg View, was making the case for more spending now, coupled with deficit reduction later. During his time in the White House, Mr. Orszag often argued for such a combined approach, but was derided by some of his colleagues as being too focused on long-term deficits at a time when they believed the economy needed more federal spending.
In his column, Mr. Orszag said the two sides of the stimulus-versus-austerity debate should come together to approve a short-term spending boost along with mandatory steps to reduce the deficit down the road when the economy has improved. He said past efforts to impose discipline in future years have been successful, citing the gradual increase in Social Security retirement age.
''Those who are most worried about our long-term fiscal health shouldn't fret too much about additional stimulus today, if it is combined with future budget cuts,'' he wrote. ''Stimulus now would have only a modest long-term impact on national debt. So if it can lead to a deal, while also easing short-term pain from unemployment, what's not to like?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); AIR FORCES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PETER ORSZAG (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



917 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Breaking Up The Suit

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
THAT time of year is upon us: the sticky season, when the only suit a man can get excited about has one of two words in front of it: ''swim'' or ''birthday.''
So some of the recent goings-on in the world of men's attire seem strangely unseasonal. First, the relentlessly fashionable online retailer Mr Porter is staging a huge suit initiative starting June 6 to coincide with the new season of ''Suits,'' the television show about two scheming lawyers whose closets are stocked with the aforementioned garments as well as a skeleton or two. There will be a pop-up shop, a fashion show on the High Line, a choreographed appearance of men in suits on bicycles tearing all over town, an iPhone app to play Dapper Dan on, and God only knows what else -- but it will involve suits. 
Just last week, the up-and-coming men's wear designer Todd Snyder opened a special shop of his practical-but-stylish suiting at Odin, the downtown New York store where one would scarcely expect to find a single suit much less a collection of them. And the unstoppable clothier J. Crew, taking off on the success of its Ludlow suit, recently opened a seductive little shop devoted exclusively to Ludlow suiting on a sleepy corner in TriBeCa. On a recent Saturday the wait for a dressing room was longer than the wait for a table at Super Linda around the corner.
It's no secret that men's tailored clothing has been on a roll. According to NPD Group, which tracks the clothing market, for the 12 months ending March 30, 2012, sales of tailored clothing (suits, jackets and trousers) were up 11 percent over the same period in 2011. In an economy in which double-digit growth in any category is remarkable, the fact that 2011's nearly $4.5 billion market in tailored clothing rose to almost $5 billion this year is extraordinary.
One reason for the climb: a revamped, dressed-up, stripped-down suit that has all but reinvented a moribund idea: the summer suit a man would actually enjoy wearing.
Not long ago, the summer suit came in two basic forms, both of them unappealing: a conservatively styled, tropical-weight wool that you couldn't wait to take off; or a cartoonishly old-fashioned style in, say, seersucker or linen that you could rarely muster the enthusiasm to put on.
Lately, though, designers have put the suit through some austerity measures and have come out with variations that feel lighter than ever before -- and cool enough for even the most easily overheated.
''As an item, the summer suit didn't really exist before,'' said Alex Badia, the men's wear editor of Women's Wear Daily. ''There was no such thing, really. Men hated linen because of the way it wrinkles, but fabric mills have started making linen blends with wool or silk that have this great texture and are amazingly lightweight. And designers are finally making suits that are unconstructed and unlined, and that travel well, too. You just fold them up and throw them in a suitcase. I sweat all summer long, but the suit is really a doable thing now.''
What's more, many lines -- notably, youth-oriented brands like Uniqlo, H & M, Club Monaco and Topman -- are offering suits that put less pressure on the wallet as well, albeit in skinny fashion-forward cuts that might not suit the average city slicker. Even so, a neat, crisply styled khaki suit at J. Crew goes for $450, as do several other suits in the store, and it looks and feels like one that costs three times as much.
As do the sharp suits at Suitsupply, a stylish, modern haberdashery started a decade ago in the Netherlands by Fokke de Jong, who believed that the world of men's suiting deserved a platform more like an Apple store than a cliched men's club. Offering inexpensive tailored suits in a natty range of fabrics suggestive of a 1960s Italian take on British style, Suitsupply has grown to nearly 40 shops in Europe and, recently, one in New York.
Not only does a less expensive suit cost less, it is also a far less precious thing. You might not bicycle to work in a $1,700 suit, but one that cost $450? When the cost of a suit is on par with a fancy dress shirt and a pair of premium jeans, the possibilities for wearing it open up considerably. Brunching! Gallery-going! Walking the dog! Even Mike Rowe, the hunky, muddy star of ''Dirty Jobs,'' might wear one to work.
Moreover, it is not just where you can wear these new threads, it's how. As esoteric as it sounds, the men's suitscape is being subtly but seriously altered by the fact that more and more suits are now sold as separates.
Frank Muytjens, the head of men's design at J. Crew, said that the company never considered selling suits in the new Ludlow Shop that were ''nested,'' the industry term for a suit that is displayed and sold as a single SKU, or stock-keeping unit, with one price tag. Freeing men to choose and buy the jackets and pants they want to put together makes them that much freer to exercise the same judgment at home.
''Separates have become a huge key to the suit business,'' said Marshal Cohen, NPD's chief analyst. ''Not long ago, breaking up a suit was a big no-no, but now guys want to break it up. They are looking to diversify their wardrobes more than ever, and they want a suit that lets them take the pants off after work and wear a pair of jeans with the jacket -- even if they're changing in the car.''
Anthony Purritano, a product development associate at Macy's Merchandising Group, bought two complete summer suits -- that is, matching jacket and pants -- at the Ludlow Shop. But he also bought two suit vests and a pair of suit pants without their matching elements. ''I really like wearing a suit in summer, and these feel really lightweight and breathable,'' he said. ''But I don't want to look like a mannequin. I like to play with the patterns and make it more unique.''
Looking down, he added, ''Today, I'm actually wearing the pants from the khaki suit with a denim shirt.''
Todd Snyder, a nominee for next month's Council of Fashion Designers of America award as an emerging talent in men's wear, said that he was a proponent of all three pieces of the summer-suiting model: lightweight fabrics, lightweight construction and selling the pieces separately.
But he added that subtly styling the pieces so that they can easily be broken up is an important element of the summer suit, and of modern suiting in general. Certain features -- pinstriped fabric, constructed shoulders, pleated pants -- can make a jacket look wrong without its pants.
''The way the suits used to be so structured, you wouldn't want to wear a jacket without the pants,'' Mr. Snyder said. ''I do what I call soft tailoring, which softens everything, especially around the shoulder, and makes it less constructed and more versatile.''
Subtle details, he added, can lend a suit jacket a more casual flair, especially when they are borrowed from Savile Row: working buttonholes, ticket pockets, peak lapels, pick stitching.
For an entertaining primer on all of this suit style, one could do worse than watch a couple of episodes of ''Suits,'' which starts up again on June 14 on USA Network. The show's two lead characters are lawyers, defined by their approach to suiting. The older, more successful lawyer at the top of this game wears Tom Ford, all matching, all the time. The younger, more casual one is the J. Crew poster boy, freely mixing it up and changing into jeans when he's off the clock.
Not that one works better; both men look good. It's just that, as for all men, the characters have gravitated toward a style that suits them. Or a suit that styles them. In the new men's wear landscape, it is really your call.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A DAY IN THE SUN: J. Crew cotton suit that is sold as separates: choose the jacket and pants that you want.(E1)
BURBERRY: Burberry hemp suit, $1,695
Richard James cotton poplin shirt, $145
and Swaine Adeney Brigg bridle leather briefcase, $1,230
all at mrporter.com. Striped silk club tie, $125 at Ralph Lauren. Alden leather loafers, $620 at Barneys.
PRADA: Cotton poplin suit, $1,980, and striped cotton button-down shirt, $470, both at Prada. New Era baseball cap, $34 at Lids.
SUITSUPPLY: Wool-linen suit, $639 at Suitsupply. Striped shirt, $145 at Ralph Lauren. Drake's silk knit tie, $155 at mrporter.com. Suede lace-ups, $178 at J. Crew. Lemtosh sunglasses, $255 at Moscot. Thompson leather duffel bag, $548 at Coach.
MIX IT UP: In summer, less -- less weight, less cost and less uniformity -- is more. Here, J. Crew cotton jackets, $298
pants, $158
and gingham spread-collar cotton shirts, $135, that can match or mix, as you will. Additional items: left, silk print tie, $69.50 at J. Crew, and canvas Duluth Scout Pack, $150 at duluthpack.com. Center, Richard James cotton-linen tie, $115 at mrporter.com, and Fabien Baron aviator sunglasses, $350 at fbeyewear.com. Right, silk print tie, $215 Prada, and Valextra leather briefcase, $4,320 at mrporter.com.
CAN TAKE THE HEAT: From left: Michael Bastian seersucker suit, $1,495 at Barneys New York
pink cotton-blend suit, $400 at Topman
Todd Snyder charcoal glen plaid tropical-wool suit, $1,550 at Odin
navy cotton suit, $500 at Tommy Hilfiger
 tan gabardine suit, $1,695 at Ralph Lauren. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN GRASSI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); MEN (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING (89%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); FASHION SHOWS (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



918 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Euro Zone Crisis Heating Back Up As Leaders Argue

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and PAUL GEITNER; Nicholas Kulish reported from Berlin, and Paul Geitner from Brussels. Melissa Eddy contributed reporting from Berlin, David Jolly from Paris, and James Kanter from Brussels.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- With Greece's membership in the euro zone teetering, fears of bank insolvency rising and Europe's leaders bickering about what to do, the euro crisis is once again intensifying and threatening to undermine fragile growth globally.
At a summit meeting in Brussels on Wednesday, regional leaders failed to signal any significant new steps to stimulate the sputtering regional economy or resolve the competing agendas of President Francois Hollande of France, who favors stronger action to spur growth, and his German counterpart, Chancellor Angela Merkel, who has opposed aggressive moves to ease the pressure on Europe's weakest economies.
Yet, the urgency for a solution to the region's debt crisis, now in its third year, may never have been greater.
With international economic monitors warning that the Continent could slide back into recession, Spain has watched its borrowing costs climb to unsustainable levels, as concerns rise about the country's weakened banking sector. Fears continue to grow that it will be difficult to avoid a messy divorce between Greece and the euro zone, with still unpredictable consequences for markets and other struggling European economies, including Spain and Italy. 
In a conference call held on Monday, finance ministry officials from the euro zone countries were urged to make sure contingency plans were in place for all eventualities, including a Greek exit, one European official involved said.
''You have a debt crisis, a banking crisis and a political crisis. Those are the three crises that are occurring simultaneously,'' said Thomas Cooley, economics professor at the New York University Stern School of Business. ''Anything that undermines confidence in the financial system is bad, not just for the European financial system but the U.S. financial system as well.''
Problems in Europe pose a threat to President Obama's re-election plans as well, because a deeper slump there could drag down the United States economy, as happened a year ago. In a recent report, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development cited Europe's potential slump as the leading threat to global growth.
Some European leaders had tried to play down expectations for Wednesday's meeting, one they said was only a prelude to a formal meeting scheduled for the end of June. ''Each of us spoke and put forward our position,'' said Ms. Merkel, addressing the discussion of jointly issued debt, known as euro bonds, after the meeting. ''Francois Hollande spoke as he said he would. It was a very differentiated discussion.''
But in an indication of developing fissures, Mr. Hollande, who has been vocal in supporting euro bonds, said before the meeting that ''the euro zone must show that it can support Greece.'' Rather than suggesting a decisive new approach or finding common solutions, the leaders appear to be increasingly at odds.
In many ways their most important mission may be to quell their own infighting. The demand from France and others for bonds jointly issued by the 17 members of the euro currency union, to pool the borrowing risk, has grown louder, even as the opposition in Germany has grown more rancorous.
German officials said that Ms. Merkel, after arriving, met briefly with Greece's caretaker prime minister, Panagiotis Pikrammenos. They said Ms. Merkel had told him Germany would do what it could to help Greece, but added as she has many times before that Athens would have to abide by the agreements it made with its lenders.
On June 17, Greece will hold a second round of elections that is being treated as a referendum on the loan agreement, and the date is evolving into a deadline for European leaders to offer some sort of hope to the Greek people. But it is not clear what form that might take.
The German central bank, the Bundesbank, warned in its monthly report Wednesday that the Greek situation was ''extremely worrying,'' but that easing Greece's bailout terms ''would damage confidence in all euro-area agreements and treaties and strongly weaken incentives for national reform and consolidation measures.''
Instead of euro bonds, less controversial measures, like increased financing for the European Investment Bank, the repurposing of existing European structural funds and even ''project bonds'' jointly issued for specific undertakings, are likely to be pursued. Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, has called for more aggressive action by the European Central Bank.
Mr. Hollande has promised to find a way to generate economic growth not only in France but also for reeling economies like Greece. He has proposed that euro member nations pool their resources to make project bonds available for initiatives intended to promote growth. In the process, he has set himself as an opponent of Ms. Merkel and the austerity policies associated with her stance for fiscal rectitude.
Although the German and French finance ministers praised each other and spoke of their friendly and cooperative relations after their preliminary meeting in Berlin on Monday, the level of frustration in the German capital over Mr. Hollande's vocal demand for euro bonds has become increasingly evident.
Many economists believe that euro bonds offer the surest way to end the sovereign debt crisis and for European states to restore growth. But in Berlin, many policy makers view them with skepticism, as a way for other countries to tap the creditworthiness of Germany rather than facing up to difficult but necessary economic reforms. ''It is clear who wants what from whom,'' said Thomas Steffen, a deputy finance minister, in an address on fiscal policy on Wednesday. ''A lot of people want something from us.''
While talk has focused on how isolated Ms. Merkel has become in her stance against euro bonds and in favor of pressing deficit cuts, she is far from alone. Many Eastern European countries, which suffered through their own austerity programs to gain entry to the euro zone and are still poorer than Greece, have little sympathy for Athens. And the Austrians, Finns and Dutch have thus far hewed to Ms. Merkel's line.
''We did not expect a decision tonight,'' Mr. Hollande said after the meeting. ''There was no conflict, no confrontation between the various countries and some were even more against euro bonds than Ms. Merkel.''
Ms. Merkel said Wednesday that the German Constitution and the European treaties forbade countries from assuming one another's debts. ''Aside from that, I don't believe that they would make any contribution to boosting growth in the euro zone,'' she said.
Mr. Cooley, of New York University, said: ''I don't think we'll get all the way to the unraveling of the euro system. The way they are approaching solutions to it is the one that's going to cause the most possible pain and damage to the countries on the periphery.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Francois Hollande of France spoke with reporters in Brussels on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIONEL BONAVENTURE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EUROBONDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); RECESSION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); BELGIUM (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



919 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Military Will Remain Strong With Cuts, Obama Tells Cadets

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
COLORADO SPRINGS -- President Obama vowed on Wednesday to keep the military strong even as he winds down the wars of the last decade and takes the budget knife to Pentagon spending in an age of increasing government austerity.
Addressing the graduating cadets of the Air Force Academy, Mr. Obama said spending cuts were inevitable for the armed forces but he promised to guard against reductions that would compromise the nation's security. Dismissing talk of national decline, he described an ''American century'' in which the United States would continue to flourish. 
''Yes, as today's wars end, our military, and our Air Force, will be leaner,'' he told a stadium filled with the blue uniforms of the next generation of pilots and other officers. ''But as commander in chief, I will not allow us to make the mistakes of the past. We still face very serious threats. As we've seen in recent weeks, with Al Qaeda in Yemen, there are still terrorists who seek to kill our citizens.''
He added: ''We'll keep our military, and our Air Force, fast and flexible and versatile. We will maintain our military superiority in all areas: air, land, sea, space and cyber.''
Mr. Obama's commencement address was his first at a military academy since the last American troops left Iraq, ending nearly nine years of conflict, and came just days after he agreed with NATO allies on a plan to close out the combat mission in Afghanistan.
In effect, he used the occasion to outline a vision for the next stage in the nation's struggle against terrorism, one that shifts away from large commitments of ground troops and relies more on diplomatic and economic power while drawing on more help from allies.
''You are the first class in nine years that will graduate into a world where there are no Americans fighting in Iraq,'' Mr. Obama said. ''For the first time in your lives -- and thanks to Air Force personnel who did their part -- Osama bin Laden is no longer a threat to our country. We've put Al Qaeda on the path to defeat. And you are the first graduates since 9/11 who can clearly see how we'll end the war in Afghanistan.''
He said that his policies would end those wars while still making the country safer, and he noted that the graduates would have fewer deployments and more time to train and rest between missions than their predecessors. But Mr. Obama went into little detail about how financial restraints would affect the Air Force and the military at large. He has proposed a spending plan for the Pentagon that includes nearly $480 billion in cuts over 10 years, but that amount could increase sharply if his administration and Congress do not reach agreement on a plan to avoid deeper automatic cuts currently programmed into law. Republicans have said Mr. Obama is already cutting the armed forces too deeply.
A budget plan released by the Obama administration in February called for reducing the number of active-duty Air Force personnel by 3,900 as well as an additional 6,000 from the Reserves and National Guard. Under that plan, about 500 aircraft would be retired as well. Since then, the Guard's political patrons have fought back and persuaded Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to reverse some of those cuts, foreshadowing continued struggles in the months and years ahead over how to divvy up scarcer resources.
Mr. Obama also used the stage of the academy to implicitly rebut Republican critics who accuse him of not believing in American exceptionalism, a charge made most prominently by former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, the party's presumptive presidential nominee.
Mr. Obama cited previous eras when the nation feared decline, including after Pearl Harbor, the Vietnam War and the rise of Asian economies in the 1980s. Repeatedly using the phrase ''I see an American century,'' he asserted that the country's future was bright because of his policies.
''I see an American century because we have the resilience to make it through these tough economic times,'' he said, promising to invest in education and innovation while bringing down deficits. ''We need to get on with nation-building here at home. I know we can, because we're still the largest, most dynamic, most innovative economy in the world. And no matter what challenges we may face, we wouldn't trade places with any other nation on earth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Wednesday at the Air Force Academy, where he said, ''We will maintain our military superiority in all areas: air, land, sea, space and cyber.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (84%); AL-QAEDA (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); YEMEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



920 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Iran Talks Are Extended as Signs of Common Ground Are Seen

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Alan Cowell contributed reporting from Paris, and Thomas Erdbrink from Tehran.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Iran appeared to balk Wednesday at a detailed proposal presented by six world powers to address urgent concerns about its nuclear program, including a freeze on its enrichment of uranium that could be converted to bomb-grade fuel, because of what the Iranian side suggested was an insufficient easing of sanctions in exchange.
But after a long day of diplomatic negotiations, both sides agreed to keep talking into Thursday. A senior American official said that despite disagreements some common ground had been reached, suggesting that diplomats had extended the constructive atmosphere that has prevailed since the talks on Iran's disputed nuclear program were resumed last month. 
''We're getting to things that matter,'' said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the talks. ''Even if we disagree on the shape, we think there is the beginning of a negotiation.''
The six powers -- the United States, France, Britain, Russia, China and Germany -- exchanged proposals with the Iranian side, which presented what Iranian news reports described as a five-point plan containing both nuclear and nonnuclear elements.
The most important part of the proposal given to the Iranians called for stopping enrichment of uranium to 20 percent purity, which is a short technical step away from highly enriched uranium that can be weaponized.
''Every day we don't figure this out is a day they move forward with their nuclear program,'' the American official said.
But the six powers rejected Iranian calls for an immediate easing of the increasingly painful economic sanctions that have been imposed on Iran, a position that clearly appeared to disappoint the Iranian side. Senior Western diplomats also said that harsher American and European Union sanctions on oil exports and banking transactions to go into effect in July would not be postponed.
Although there was no word from the lead Iranian negotiator, Saeed Jalili, Iran's state television news broadcast devoted nearly 10 minutes to the negotiations, stressing that the package offered by the six powers was ''unbalanced,'' suggesting it offered little or nothing in the way of relief or inducements to Iran.
Western diplomats said the proposal presented to Iran was meant partly to buy more time for more comprehensive and detailed negotiations with Iran on the nature of its nuclear program. Their priority was to cap Iran's growing stockpile of uranium enriched to 20 percent. Iran says the uranium is for fuel for medical reactors, but Western diplomats say the Iranians already have many times more than they need, furthering suspicions about Iran's motivations despite its repeated assertions that the enrichment program is peaceful.
The six powers also want Iran to export its current stockpile of 20 percent uranium and, down the road, to dismantle the once-secret Fordo enrichment plant, buried deep inside a mountain near the holy city of Qum, that is producing it.
Removing the 20 percent uranium stockpile from Iranian control is an issue that preoccupies Israel and other American allies like Saudi Arabia. Israel, which considers Iran's nuclear program an existential threat, has warned that it might attack Iran militarily if the Iranians appear to be nearing completion of a nuclear weapon or continue to produce 20 percent enriched uranium in protected sites like the Fordo mountain fortress that are difficult to bomb.
Michael Mann, spokesman for the European Union's top foreign policy official, Catherine Ashton, who is leading the six-power negotiation team, said the negotiation was a process, and ''these things can't be resolved overnight.'' If the talks go well here, he said, ''we are going to make solid progress.''
In return for early Iran steps to freeze 20 percent, the six offered benefits like spare parts for civilian aircraft, much needed in Iran, and help with nuclear safety at civilian installations, and perhaps a pledge that Iran has the right to a peaceful nuclear program so long as it resolves doubts about its intentions through serious, detailed, technical negotiations with the six and through openness with the inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The six are also offering a new version of a fuel-exchange program, to take Iran's 20 percent enriched uranium and return it as processed fuel for medical reactors.
The substance of the Iranian side's proposal was not disclosed, but the Iranian news media called it a ''comprehensive proposal'' with five elements, and Iranian journalists here said that it included a nuclear plank and one on regional issues.
''We need the steps that both sides have to take to be clearly defined and there is no possibility of going back on them,'' an Iranian official was quoted as telling Agence France-Presse. If Western nations lift sanctions, for instance, he said, ''they cannot then readopt them two months later under a different pretext.''
The delegations met for three hours, broke for lunch and conversation, then resumed discussions into Wednesday evening before adjourning. Talks were scheduled to resume on Thursday morning, diplomats said, including a one on one between Ms. Ashton and Mr. Jalili.
On Tuesday, the director general of the energy agency, Yukiya Amano, said that he had reached something of a breakthrough with Iranian officials on the agency's longstanding request for access to some of Iran's military facilities and officials to check Iran's assertion that it is not working on a nuclear weapon.
Mr. Amano's assertion suggested that Iran was seeking to set a positive tone for the talks and perhaps ease pressure from the strict Western-led sanctions that are about to become even more severe.
Iranian officials sought to dispel the notion that they were acting under pressure. At a news conference in Tehran on Wednesday, Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi said that ''policies of pressure and intimidation are futile,'' urging Iran's interlocutors ''to adopt policies to show good will to solve this issue.'' He said Iran hoped that ''in a day or two we can bring good news'' from the Baghdad talks.
Not directly mentioning the nuclear talks, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, speaking at a military academy on Wednesday, said the West's power was in decline. ''No matter their propaganda, they are being weakened and destroyed.''
Ayatollah Khamenei is considered the main decision-maker on the nuclear issue, and Mr. Jalili has been appointed his personal representative. ''The Iranian nation is hopeful of the future,'' Ayatollah Khamenei said. ''And the horizon of the future is smiling toward the Iranians.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Catherine Ashton, the European Union's top foreign policy official, with Iran's nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, before talks began on Wednesday in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI AL-SAADI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (89%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); IRAQ (89%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



921 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Political Ads Don't Tell Full Story on Private Equity

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL; David Kocieniewski contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In an advertisement released this month by President Obama's campaign, Mitt Romney and the private equity firm he co-founded, Bain Capital, are painted as vampires. They sucked the lifeblood out of GST Steel in the 1990s, which pushed it into bankruptcy, destroying jobs and eliminating pensions.
In a quick counterattack, the Romney campaign released an ad that highlighted the robust job growth at another Bain investment, the manufacturing company Steel Dynamics. The ad featured employees who said the investment had helped them achieve the American dream.
So, which version of private equity is true? The answer, of course, is both. The business of private equity firms is buying and selling companies, all done with the goal of earning big returns for themselves and their investors. Sometimes that means jobs are created; sometimes it means jobs are lost. 
In fact, job creation was actually never part of the industry's mission statement, just a nice happenstance if it occurred.
The world of private equity is a nuanced, complicated business that will never be fully captured in anybody's ads this political season. Yet, despite the debate swirling around it, private equity plays a central role in the economy.
Each day when millions of Americans eat at Burger King, stay at a Hilton hotel, or visit an HCA-owned hospital, whether they know it or not, they are intersecting with private equity.
The industry has exploded in scale and scope in recent years with some $3 trillion in global assets. The 2,600 private equity firms in the United States are invested in 15,300 companies and employ about 8 million people, according to the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry's lobbying arm. Some of the largest private equity firms -- the Blackstone Group, the Carlyle Group, and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company -- oversee global empires that rival some of the mightiest public corporations.
Yet more than three decades after private equity burst onto the scene in the merger mania of the 1980s, the industry remains as mysterious and controversial as ever.
''The industry has done a terrible job of explaining what it does, and now it has this bright spotlight being shown on it that no one really ever anticipated,'' said Colin C. Blaydon, director of the Center for Private Equity and Entrepreneurship at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth.
It is said that private equity is a business of other people's money. Most private equity firms raise money from outside investors that they then combine with large amounts of money borrowed by the companies they are acquiring. Sometimes they install new management and wring out excess costs, which can include slashing jobs. Other times they invest in new plants and create new jobs. After a few years, they either sell the company or take it public again, ideally at a profit.
Buyout firms make their money through three different avenues: They charge their investors an annual management fee; they earn a share of any profits; and they can take lucrative advisory and other fees from the companies they acquire.
Those fat fees have caused many of private equity's detractors to say the industry has minted millionaires and even a handful of billionaires at the expense of ordinary Americans.
In their eyes, private equity is still the ''Barbarians at the Gate,'' a book about the late 1980s buyout of RJR Nabisco, and its preferred modus operandi is ''stripping and flipping.''
That robber baron image was not helped a few years ago when the Blackstone Group co-founder Stephen A. Schwarzman gave himself a multimillion-dollar birthday party that included a performance by Rod Stewart.
Still, the titans of the industry argue that they save and create jobs by sometimes acquiring troubled companies that might have gone under if not for the new money and fresh ideas private equity injected into them.
As for the notion that the buyout titans are enriching only themselves, they are quick to point out that their biggest investors are public pension funds that are seeking high returns to pay benefits down the road to state and municipal retirees.
On the question of whether private equity has created more jobs than it has eliminated, one of the most-quoted academic studies comes out basically a wash. A study by researchers from Harvard, the University of Chicago and elsewhere of private-equity-owned companies from 1980 to 2005 concluded that private equity did not add more jobs than other companies, but it did not shed significantly more jobs either.
Other recent studies suggest that some of the more controversial practices of private equity may not do as much harm as is often perceived. For instance, critics have long hammered private equity as loading companies up with mountains of debt that often leaves them teetering on the edge of the financial abyss.
But a study released last year by a group of researchers that examined companies with high levels of debt between 1997 and 2010 showed private-equity-owned companies did not default at higher levels than their similarly burdened counterparts.
The same study also said that the often-vilified practice of companies issuing new debt in order to pay dividends to their buyout owners also did not put the companies at greater financial peril.
Still, one area of criticism that continues to dog the private equity leaders and firms is their low tax rate. The hefty borrowings that companies take on during a buyout often provide the private equity firms with tax-deductible interest payments.
In addition, the fees the industry earns if it hits performance targets is taxed at the lower 15 percent capital gains rate. Ordinary income, like wages and salaries, are subject to a tax rate of up to 35 percent.
Behind the scenes, private equity officials say the industry has evolved. They argue that state officials who oversee public pension money have pressured them to improve the operations of the companies they own rather than rely on balance-sheet somersaults to make their returns.
As for the dueling ads, in the case of GST Steel, a manufacturer based in Kansas City, Mo., that Bain bought in 1993, the company, according to a Reuters article this year, issued new debt that was used to pay tens of millions of dollars in dividends to its buyout owners. That sent GST's debt levels and interest payments soaring, which eventually pushed it into bankruptcy.
When the bankruptcy was announced, the company also said that it was shutting down a mill, resulting in the loss of hundreds of jobs, and that it would not provide workers with severance pay, health insurance and other benefits. The company's underfunded pension was eventually bailed out by the federal government. But not explored in the campaign ad is that GST was a company already well in decline in an industry under pressure from cheap global product before Bain acquired it and pumped money into it. It was one of many steel manufacturers that filed for bankruptcy during the period.
''Mitt Romney retired from Bain Capital over 13 years ago,'' Bain said in a statement, ''but we understand that in a political campaign our exemplary 28-year record will be distorted and complex business situations will be portrayed in a simplistic way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE OBAMA AD: The ad featured steelworkers who lost their jobs years after Bain Capital took over GST Steel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA)
 THE ROMNEY AD: Here, employees of Steel Dynamics said Bain Capital's investment had helped them achieve the American dream. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROMNEY FOR PRESIDENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MERGERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (91%); KKR & CO LP (65%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (65%); BX (NYSE) (58%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



922 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Romney Calls Education 'Civil Rights Issue of Our Era' and Urges Shift

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
Lamenting that millions of American children receive ''a third world education,'' Mitt Romney on Wednesday called for poor and disabled students to be able to use federal funds to attend any public, private or online school they choose.
In an already feverish campaign contest with President Obama that has focused largely on the economy, Mr. Romney, the presumed Republican nominee, turned his attention to the issue of education. 
It might have seemed an unlikely choice, given how insignificantly education has figured in recent presidential elections. But the campaign has long planned to flesh out Mr. Romney's agenda and move beyond daily tit-for-tat criticism of the president.
Mr. Romney's sudden emphasis on education is reminiscent of George W. Bush's forceful embrace of the same issue in 2000, a pillar of his ''compassionate conservatism'' that was credited with softening his image with moderate voters in the general election.
Another hint of Mr. Romney's political aims was his audience: a meeting in Washington of Hispanic voters, a constituency that polls consistently show cares deeply about education, and one that Mr. Romney must court as he tries to win critical states like Florida and Colorado.
Mr. Romney said that the failure of so many American schools with minority students ''is the civil rights issue of our era,'' echoing a mantra of the school choice movement. ''It's the great challenge of our time.''
The challenge for Mr. Romney is that many of the ideas he touched on -- increasing the number of charter schools, holding teachers more accountable for student success -- have already been adopted by the Obama administration, whose education policies have all but co-opted traditional Republican positions.
In response to Mr. Romney's proposals, the Obama campaign released a compilation of Republican governors' past praise for the president's education policies, including comments from Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Gov. Susana Martinez of New Mexico.
Mr. Romney told donors at a private gathering in Florida last month that he would reduce the size of the Education Department or fold it into another agency. But on Wednesday he gave no hint of the cuts he would make to education spending. He said he would consolidate $4 billion in current expenditures on teacher quality across 10 federal agencies, and send the money to states as block grants.
He also promised to break logjams that still hold up reforms by taking on teachers' unions, which he called ''the clearest example of a group that has lost its way.'' He accused Mr. Obama of quavering before the unions because of their power within the Democratic Party. ''President Obama has been unable to stand up to union bosses -- and unwilling to stand up for our kids,'' he said.
In fact, Mr. Obama has crossed teachers' unions, notably in 2010 when he praised a mass firing of teachers in Rhode Island in a showdown over an administration policy to radically overhaul failing high-poverty schools.
In a policy paper released on Wednesday, the Romney campaign called for the elimination of such federal intervention.
James Kvaal, policy director for Mr. Obama's campaign, accused Mr. Romney of wanting ''to stop the clock on decades of reform by no longer insisting action be taken'' to reform struggling schools.
In place of overhauling failing schools, which can include replacement of the staff or conversion to a charter school, Mr. Romney would substitute a ''public report card,'' one exposing a school's failures so that parents, presumably, could steer clear. It is uncertain how that proposal differs from existing report cards now required under the No Child Left Behind law enacted under President Bush.
Mr. Romney's biggest departure from existing policy was his call for poor students and those with disabilities to be able to attend any public school in their state -- ''or a private school where permitted by law'' -- and to have federal funds follow them, rather than the current system in which the money stays with a student's local school.
The inclusion of private schools suggested that Mr. Romney favors voucher programs that use public dollars to pay private tuition, long a controversial idea but one that has lately been embraced by Republican lawmakers in Indiana and Louisiana.
''For too long, we've merely talked about the virtues of school choice without really doing something about it,'' Mr. Romney said.
Chester E. Finn Jr., president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, an education policy group, said Mr. Romney's proposal would significantly shift how the two largest Education Department programs for kindergarten through 12th grade students -- those for poor students and those with disabilities -- are now run.
''It's a fundamental structural change of focus away from districts and schools to focus on kids and families,'' Mr. Finn, an education official under President Ronald Reagan, said. ''It changes the allocation of power as well as money, from people running school systems to parents choosing schools.''
But apart from the symbolism, the shift might not lead to many students choosing better schools, since the federal government pays only about 10 percent of education costs for students. States and school districts, which provide the balance, have in many cases already embraced the portability of financing when students choose a school beyond their neighborhood.
''Frankly, it catches up the federal policy to what is already state policy'' in many places, Mr. Finn said.
Correction: May 29, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Thursday about Mitt Romney's address on his education proposals misstated the name of an education policy group whose president, Chester E. Finn Jr., assessed the plan. It is the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, not the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney at an event of the Latino Coalition in Washington on Wednesday. He called for letting poor and disabled students use federal money to attend the school of their choice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); SCHOOL CHOICE (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); SUSANA MARTINEZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2012



923 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE ENERGY RUSH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4827 words

HEADLINE: Offshore Oil Drilling's New and Frozen Frontier

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
WASHINGTON -- Shortly before Thanksgiving in 2010, the leaders of the commission President Obama had appointed to investigate the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico sat down in the Oval Office to brief him.
After listening to their findings about the BP accident and the safety of deepwater drilling, the president abruptly changed the subject.
''Where are you coming out on the offshore Arctic?'' he asked.
William K. Reilly, a former chief of the Environmental Protection Agency and a commission co-chairman, was startled, as was Carol M. Browner, the president's top adviser at the time on energy and climate change. Although a proposal by Shell to drill in the Arctic had been a source of dissension, it was not a major focus of the panel's work. 
''It's not deep water, right?'' the president said, noting that Shell's proposal involved low-pressure wells in 150 feet of water, nothing like BP's 5,000-foot high-pressure well that blew out in the gulf.
''What that told me,'' Mr. Reilly later recounted, ''was that the president had already gotten deeply into this issue and was prepared to go forward.''
The president's preoccupation with the Arctic proposal, even as the nation was still reeling from the BP spill, was the first hint that Shell's audacious plan to drill in waters previously considered untouchable had gone from improbable to inevitable.
Barring a successful last-minute legal challenge by environmental groups, Shell will begin drilling test wells off the coast of northern Alaska in July, opening a new frontier in domestic oil exploration and accelerating a global rush to tap the untold resources beneath the frozen ocean.
It is a moment of major promise and considerable danger.
Industry experts and national security officials view the Alaskan Arctic as the last great domestic oil prospect, one that over time could bring the country a giant step closer to cutting its dependence on foreign oil.
But many Alaska Natives and environmental advocates say drilling threatens wildlife and pristine shorelines, and perpetuates the nation's reliance on dirty fossil fuels.
In blessing Shell's move into the Arctic, Mr. Obama continues his efforts to balance business and environmental interests, seemingly project by project. He pleased environmentalists by delaying the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada and by adopting tough air standards for power plants, yet he has also delighted business concerns by rejecting an ozone standard deemed too costly to the economy.
And now, the president is writing a new chapter in the nation's unfolding energy transformation, in this case to the benefit of fossil fuel producers.
''We never would have expected a Democratic president -- let alone one seeking to be 'transformative' -- to open up the Arctic Ocean for drilling,'' said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club.
Shell's Arctic quest has consumed seven years and $4 billion over two presidential administrations, overcoming a raft of environmental concerns, the opposition of a wily and unpredictable Inupiat Eskimo leader and the fallout from the BP disaster. To do so, it mounted a relentless, two-front campaign.
After initial missteps in wooing Alaska Natives, Shell deployed a personable executive named Pete Slaiby, who traveled to remote villages and chewed raw whale meat while listening to local concerns.
The company's efforts in Washington were even more strategic. Beyond the usual full-court lobbying effort, Shell abandoned its oil industry brethren and joined advocates pushing for a strong response to climate change.
Ultimately, Shell won the backing of a president it had viewed warily during the 2008 campaign. While he signaled conditional support for the proposal years ago, Mr. Obama came under pressure from rising gasoline prices and the assiduous lobbying of a freshman Democratic senator from Alaska eager to show he could make things happen in Washington.
There were skeptics within the administration, including Ms. Browner, who left the White House before the critical decisions were made. The president's own Deepwater Horizon commission, while not recommending against Arctic drilling, urged the administration in 2011 to exercise the ''utmost caution.'' In a follow-up report last month, it gave the administration a barely passing grade on preparations for this summer's drilling, saying that there is still no proven method for cleaning oil spilled in ice and that the Coast Guard lacks an adequate response capability in the region.
Frances Beinecke, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council and a commission member, characterized the exploration as ''a reckless gamble we cannot afford.''
But the president concluded that the reward was worth the risk, and created an unusual interagency group, overseen by Heather Zichal, who was an environmental adviser to the Obama campaign, to clear Shell's path through the often fractious federal regulatory bureaucracy. Mr. Obama has long viewed offshore oil resources as insurance against global supply disruption as well as a component of an energy strategy that includes renewable sources, conservation and innovative technologies.
The move also provides the president a measure of political cover. ''Alaska tends to be a litmus test for the energy debate,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, director of energy policy research at Rice University. ''When Romney says the president is anti-drilling and causes high gas prices, Obama can turn around and say, 'I approved drilling in Alaska.' ''
Other oil companies are already lining up to join Shell in the Arctic, which company executives say could eventually yield a million barrels a day of crude -- or more than 10 percent of current domestic output. Among the Inupiat who live closest to the proposed drilling, the project continues to generate tension and debate. Although they depend on oil production for jobs and tax revenue, they rely on the ocean for much of their food and culture.
''I'm worried because we live off the ocean, the bowhead whale, the beluga, the walrus, the bearded seal,'' said Tommy Olemaun, president of the Native Village of Barrow, an Eskimo tribal organization. ''The ocean is our garden.''
Life by Nature's Rhythms
The sweeping tundra on Alaska's North Slope is a barren land, oddly majestic in its flat, white emptiness. The smallest movement stands out against that blank canvas -- the bobbing of a solitary loon or a tiny sea duck plunging for food.
Through much of the year, there is no break between the treeless coastal plain and the frozen seas. But as winter eases, gray misty clouds start appearing over open water, announcing another whale hunting season.
The natural world holds a mystical grip on the nearly 5,000 Eskimos of the North Slope, where the migration patterns of the bowhead whale dictate the rhythm of life. All other activity stops when the Inupiat load up their sealskin boats with gun-fired harpoons. Whale meat is carved at the beach and shared among the community along with mythical tales of whales giving up their freedom to nourish the people.
Bow-shaped whale skulls are displayed in front of public buildings, and baleens -- the bristly plates that filter krill in the whale's mouth -- as trophies in offices and homes.
In early April, Roy Nageak, 60, a whaling captain, got off his snowmobile and climbed a high ice ridge four miles offshore in search of a navigable hunting trail. ''Those oil guys can think whatever they want, but we know how harsh this ocean is,'' he said. ''They don't know what they are getting into.''
But the Eskimos have also come to rely on the oil industry. Before onshore drilling began in the 1960s, many North Slope communities lacked running water and relied on kerosene lanterns for light. Residents chopped ice on nearby lakes and transported it by dog sled to preserve their food. There were no high schools or fire stations.
Since the construction of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline in the late 1970s, the North Slope has produced as much as one-fifth of the nation's oil, and taxes on the industry finance the North Slope Borough government's $350 million annual budget. Over the past 50 years, nearly all of Alaska's prosperity has been driven by oil production and crude prices. Residents pay no state income tax, and in fact receive checks -- totaling roughly $5,000 for a family of four last year -- from the Alaska Permanent Fund, a corporation largely financed by oil revenues.
The state ranks third behind Texas and North Dakota in oil and gas production, which accounts for a third of the state's employment, about 100,000 jobs.
Geologists with Royal Dutch Shell first cracked rocks in Alaska looking for gold and oil nearly a century ago. Yet Shell's first venture into Arctic waters came in the 1980s, when it drilled 16 exploratory wells. It abandoned the costly project as oil prices slumped.
When prices spiked again in the early 2000s, Shell joined the scramble among nations bordering the Arctic to accelerate exploration. The company bid $44 million to lease Beaufort Sea prospects in 2005 and $2.2 billion for leases in the Chukchi Sea in 2008, and expected to be welcomed back to the Arctic.
But the Exxon Valdez disaster in 1989 had changed attitudes, especially among villagers. They feared that drilling would disturb the bowhead migration, forcing the whales away from their food and their pursuers dangerously far offshore. They also feared a spill could poison the whales.
Suddenly, Eskimos were put in the agonizing position of choosing between their two worlds.
''The bowhead whale and the materials it provides is the meat of my life,'' said Vernon Rexford, an Eskimo carver. ''They talk about the jobs, the promises of education and support for the economy, but that is counterfeit compared to the dangers of an oil spill.''
A Charismatic Obstacle
Edward S. Itta, a straight-talking Inupiat Eskimo, emerged as Shell's biggest obstacle in Alaska.
As a young man, he had worked as a roustabout on a Prudhoe Bay oil rig. Later, as the borough's public works director, he came to appreciate the importance of oil revenue to building roads and power plants. But his real gravitas grew from his acclaim as one of the area's finest whaling captains, a record that elevated him to president of the Barrow Whaling Captains Association.
In 2005, when he first ran for mayor of North Slope Borough, whose 9,400 residents live in an area the size of Utah, he campaigned as a whaler opposed to offshore drilling. And he easily defeated a candidate more accommodating to the industry.
Mr. Itta had no real authority over drilling in federal waters, but Eskimos possess a special moral authority when voicing concerns before Congress or other government entities. Mr. Itta enhanced that aura with a poetic sense of language and an ornately beaded leather vest.
''We consider both the sea and the land and the Inupiat Eskimos to be one,'' he once told a government panel. ''Therefore, the fate of the ocean is our fate.''
When the administration of President George W. Bush learned that Mr. Itta was considering a lawsuit to stop the drilling, Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne invited him to Washington in early 2007. They sat in front of a blazing fireplace in the secretary's office, where Mr. Kempthorne explained the importance of exploiting the Arctic's major oil and gas fields and, as a concession, offered to exclude a wetlands area rich in caribou and molting geese.
Mr. Itta lectured the secretary on North Slope culture and told him he intended to sue the government for not adequately studying how Shell's plan would affect whales and other wildlife. Shell, underestimating Mr. Itta's resolve, swiftly moved forward with plans to begin drilling in the Beaufort Sea that summer. For a local representative, it hired George Ahmaogak, a tough-talking former borough mayor who used a take-it-or-leave-it approach with his fellow natives. The Shell hat he wore at public meetings became a source of scorn.
That summer, a federal appeals court made preliminary rulings in Mr. Itta's favor, paralyzing Shell for another drilling season.
Mr. Ahmaogak quit his Shell job in 2008 to run against Mr. Itta, who won in a landslide.
Economic Pressures to Drill
As Shell surveyed the political landscape ahead of the 2008 presidential election, its lobbyists compiled a thick planning book for dealing with the three likeliest winners, ranking them in order of predicted finish. First was Hillary Rodham Clinton, followed by John McCain. Last was Barack Obama.
Shell retained the retired senators John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, and Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, to lobby Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain.
Approaching Mr. Obama, with far less history in Washington, took more creativity. One top Obama adviser who offered some hope to Shell was Mr. Obama's Senate chief of staff, Pete Rouse. With family roots in Alaska and experience as an aide to the state's Republican lieutenant governor, Mr. Rouse understood the importance of oil to Alaska's economy and knew the politics of oil and the Senate. He eventually became the White House point man on Arctic drilling.
A more unlikely campaign aide destined to play a significant role was Ms. Zichal, Senator John Kerry's former legislative director. Her first trip to Washington had been as a college student and an advocate for the Alaska Wilderness League, lobbying against drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
The 2008 campaign played out amid near-record gasoline prices. The Bush administration and the McCain campaign pushed for lifting the Congressional moratorium on most offshore drilling, and Republican campaign rallies were punctuated by cries of ''Drill, baby, drill.''
Mr. Obama, who secured the Democratic nomination in June, was more hesitant, expressing support for continuing the moratorium. But as high gasoline prices persisted, he began to waver.
Near the end of July, he met late one night in Chicago with a delegation of oil company chief executives, including Marvin E. Odum, Shell's North American president. A few days later, Mr. Obama announced a major policy shift, saying he would accept new offshore drilling as part of a broader energy policy, but only if it included an end to some tax breaks for oil companies and federal incentives for alternative fuels.
''Like all compromises,'' Mr. Obama said at the time, ''this one has its drawbacks. It includes a limited amount of new offshore drilling, and while I still don't believe that's a particularly meaningful short-term or long-term solution, I am willing to consider it if it's necessary to actually pass a comprehensive plan.''
Sarah Palin, then the Republican governor of Alaska, not yet called up to the national stage, cheered what she called Mr. Obama's ''flip-flopping'' to her side. ''Pretty cool,'' she said in an e-mail to an aide that came to light years later, but added: ''Wrong candidate.''
Learning to Listen
In his long career with Shell, Pete Slaiby had been dispatched to some of the most challenging corners of the company's empire -- Cameroon, Syria, Brunei and Brazil, where he met his wife, Rejani.
Mr. Slaiby's curiosity for exotic places and cultures would serve him well in the Arctic, where the company had offended many Alaska Natives. ''There was such a lack of understanding about how to do business up here,'' he said. ''We made mistakes.''
When he arrived in mid-2008, he flew in propeller planes to tiny villages, answering residents' questions about how Shell would coexist with the wildlife. ''Their concerns are genuine, and the onus is on us to show we can drill safely,'' Mr. Slaiby, an engineer, said in an interview.
At company-sponsored meetings with villagers, he passed out raffle tickets, bought trinkets and served food. Though he did not exactly develop a taste for it, he never turned down the local delicacy -- raw whale meat. Mrs. Slaiby joined in Native dances, giving them a samba flavor and earning the affectionate nickname ''City Lady.''
Shell's new strategy had been hatched at its North American headquarters in Houston. Before Mr. Slaiby's arrival in Alaska, a Shell executive invited Mr. Itta to dinner at the Petroleum Club of Anchorage, and agreed to one of his key demands: drilling would be stopped for about 10 days during the bowhead whale migration through the Beaufort Sea. But the company would not move its ships, citing the high cost.
Not good enough, Mr. Itta said.
Shortly thereafter, Mr. Odum, then Shell's top exploration executive for the Western Hemisphere, met with members of the Eskimo Whaling Commission and agreed to the complete operations blackout demanded by Mr. Itta.
Under Mr. Slaiby's leadership, Shell made more concessions, including cutting its plans to one year of exploratory drilling instead of three, and to one drill ship instead of two.
''We listened to what Mayor Itta said,'' Mr. Slaiby said in a recent interview, ''and we started to pare down our program.''
At the same time, Shell officials quietly urged local Eskimo business leaders to help sway the mayor. The company donated $150,000 to Ilisagvik College to expand its Inupiaq language and Inupiat cultural studies program. It financed VHF marine-band radios and satellite phones for whaling crews and covered the costs of some village celebrations.
Mr. Itta started feeling isolated. ''It got lonely,'' he said. ''The pressure was tremendous.'' His lawsuit had temporarily blocked Shell from drilling, but Mr. Itta said he was having second thoughts. The Obama administration was leaning strongly for offshore drilling, and he knew the borough would need more oil revenues.
He also knew that most of the state favored the exploration, in part because onshore oil production had decreased. Without more crude flowing through the Alaskan pipeline, concern was growing that the pipeline itself would deteriorate.
''If I had decided to just fight and fight, I would have gotten nothing done,'' he said. Instead, he kept working for the best deal.
To maintain the uneasy peace, Mr. Slaiby continued traveling and reassuring Alaska Natives. At one stop, when hunters from Savoonga, a remote village on the Bering Sea, expressed their fears that walruses would be bothered by the noise of drilling, Mr. Slaiby promised that Shell would stop operations when walruses were spotted from the rigs.
''We won't be successful here if we deprive people of their subsistence,'' Mr. Slaiby said. ''If the oil companies are doing well and the people living around them are not, it's a recipe for disaster.''
Nonstop Lobbying
Mr. Obama took office under the watchful gaze of environmentalists who had supported him and an oil industry that feared he would rescind its subsidies and push climate change legislation.
ExxonMobil and other major oil companies spent millions of dollars to ensure that such legislation never passed.
Shell took a different tack. Even before Mr. Obama's election, the company joined the United States Climate Action Partnership, a coalition of businesses and environmental groups advocating a response to global warming. It was a canny move, calculated to gain access to top policy makers, including the president.
''It helped people look at us differently and helped open doors,'' Mr. Odum said. ''I do not think there is any doubt about that.''
Shell employs three dozen lobbyists, according to government disclosure records. It spent $4.5 million on lobbying in 2008, the last year of the Bush administration. Lobbying costs leapt to $10.2 million in 2009, $10.4 million in 2010 and $14.8 million last year.
In the Obama administration's first two and a half years, Mr. Odum visited the White House at least six times, according to federal records. In 2010 and 2011, Sara B. Glenn, a top Shell lobbyist, was cleared into the executive complex 13 times, to meet with Ms. Zichal and others.
The intensity of Shell's campaign was matched by the fervor of Mark Begich, the new senator from Alaska. He had won his seat in something of a fluke, defeating the longtime Republican incumbent, Ted Stevens, who was ensnared in what later turned out to be a deeply flawed Justice Department corruption investigation.
No politician in Alaska can survive as an opponent of any oil development, including those in the waters of the Arctic, the National Petroleum Reserve and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Mr. Begich enthusiastically supported all three.
When he first met Mr. Obama at a mayors' conference in June 2008, Mr. Begich said, he told him, ''If I'm elected, this is what I'm going to focus on.''
Being a crucial Democratic vote in a narrowly divided Senate representing a decidedly Republican state gave Mr. Begich leverage. Whenever the president called to court his support -- on health care, climate change, the debt ceiling or budget matters -- Mr. Begich always turned the discussion to oil and gas in Alaska, particularly Arctic exploration.
''Any time he initiated a call, I felt that was carte blanche to make my case,'' Mr. Begich said. A chronology of his contact with the Obama administration on Arctic oil issues fills six pages.
He came to believe that his re-election hinged on delivering a reluctant president on oil issues, particularly drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf in the Arctic.
A Begich aide said that the unstated premise of every conversation with the president was, ''You need me, and I need the O.C.S.''
The senator said he remained unsure of Mr. Obama's intentions until the spring of 2011, when the president called to discuss budget negotiations with Republicans, and Mr. Begich again pressed him on oil. ''He said, 'I'm with you 60 or 70 percent,' '' Mr. Begich said. ''What that meant to me was he was going to approve everything except A.N.W.R.,'' the Arctic wildlife refuge. He was right.
Shell also kept up a steady flow of visits, letters and calls to the agencies that could grant or deny the myriad permits it needed in the Arctic. Over time, Shell's proposal had expanded to include a total of as many as 10 test wells in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas over two years. A company lobbyist said that the most resistance came from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which had the singular mission of protecting whales and other sea mammals.
''NOAA is traditionally filled with people with a philosophical bent,'' the lobbyist said. ''We really struggled with them.''
Some bureaucrats felt under siege by the relentless lobbying.
''I understood they were doing it, I understood why they were doing it, and it wasn't as subtle as it should have been,'' one regulator said. ''I didn't like it.''
A Presidential Push
The Deepwater Horizon disaster on April 20, 2010, the worst offshore spill in American history, shut down Shell's drilling plans for the year, but barely slowed its lobbying campaign on the Arctic. In numerous White House meetings even at the height of the gulf crisis, top Shell officials pressed for a decision.
Mr. Odum said his bosses in The Hague and the company's shareholders needed to know if their $4 billion investment was ever going to yield oil. ''I can actually remember saying several times, 'We need a decision,' '' Mr. Odum said of his conversations with top policy makers. '' 'Is this resource on-limits or off-limits?' ''
For months after the BP accident, Ms. Browner, the president's chief environmental adviser, was consumed with the response to the spill. Most other energy issues, including the Arctic, fell to Ms. Zichal.
After the flow from the stricken well was stanched in July, Mr. Obama focused on when to restart offshore drilling and whether to expand it. A month before the BP disaster, the administration had proposed opening new areas to drilling off the East and Gulf Coasts as well as Alaska.
That is perhaps why Mr. Obama solicited the opinion of the BP commissioners in their Oval Office briefing in November 2010. Mr. Obama had heard plenty about the promise and risks of Arctic oil from Shell executives, from Senator Begich, from Mr. Rouse and Ms. Zichal. Mr. Reilly, as a former environmental agency administrator and co-chairman of the BP panel, provided Mr. Obama with slightly more objective validation, even though he was on the board of directors of ConocoPhillips, which is also in line to drill in the Arctic.
Less than two weeks later, the Interior Department issued a statement revising its plans for offshore oil and gas leasing, removing populated areas off the East Coast and Florida but leaving the Arctic Ocean available for lease sales. Although news coverage focused on the areas removed, the announcement was cause for celebration in Houston.
The company's plans were set back again at the end of December 2010 when an E.P.A. panel revoked the air pollution permit for one of its drilling rigs. That infuriated Shell executives, frustrated White House officials and unleashed the ire of Alaska's two senators, who introduced legislation to streamline permitting.
The E.P.A. action effectively stopped Shell's plans for another year, but the president put his foot on the gas.
In May 2011, he authorized onshore oil lease sales in Alaska's National Petroleum Reserve and extended oil companies' offshore leases in the Arctic Ocean. In July, he created by executive order a multiagency task force led by the deputy interior secretary but overseen by Ms. Zichal to prod the bureaucracy on Arctic issues, particularly Shell's drilling plans.
Still, some government officials complained that there remained huge gaps in response plans for a spill and too many unknowns about the effect of drilling on marine animals.
The commandant of the Coast Guard, Admiral Robert J. Papp Jr., went public last August, warning Congress that the country was woefully unprepared to respond to a major spill in the Arctic. That same month, Ms. Beinecke, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council and a member of the BP spill commission, urged the president to block Arctic drilling. ''The administration should put on the brakes,'' she wrote in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times.
The commission's final report said that for Arctic drilling to be done safely, ''both industry and government will have to demonstrate standards and a level of performance higher than they have ever achieved before.''
But these warnings did not slow progress. At the urging of regulators, Shell strengthened spill prevention and response plans. It built a containment system for the Arctic modeled on the one that successfully capped the BP well and added ships and equipment to the armada to be in place to capture any spilled oil. The company agreed reluctantly to shorten its Chukchi Sea drilling season by 38 days, to less than three months, to ensure that the area would be ice-free in case of a blowout.
The government strengthened its Arctic research programs to better understand the impact of increased industrial activity in the northern ocean. Those and other concessions seemed to placate officials at the permitting agencies, who were navigating between their regulatory duties and the president's obvious desire to drill.
Environmental groups, though opposed, recognized the president's commitment to Shell's plan, and never formed a broad alliance with North Slope residents, many of whom resented intervention by organizations based mostly outside of Alaska.
National environmental groups focused instead on more promising targets, like defeating the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada and retiring coal-fired power plants.
Shell's permits came in a rush. Interior approved exploration in both seas by last December. Response plans were endorsed in February and March of this year. The E.P.A.'s appeals board cleared the final air permits at the end of March -- just as the whaling season got under way. NOAA came through with a marine mammal permit in early May.
Ms. Zichal said there was no explicit or implied order from the White House to approve the permits. The message was, in her words, ''If you're comfortable with it, we're comfortable with it.''
But senior people at the agencies had a different reading of the signals, particularly the executive order requiring them to work together more closely. They believed their mission was to do whatever they could -- responsibly and within the law -- to remove barriers to drilling.
''We can't stop it,'' said one senior agency official who had qualms about Arctic drilling but understood the president's wishes. ''We can only make it less bad.''
Shell is awaiting its final drilling permits from the Interior Department. Its two ships are in Seattle, undergoing final modifications and inspections.
The Energy Rush: Articles in this series are examining the transformation of energy production in the United States.
Online Correction: May 23, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article contained a photo caption that referred to Edward Itta as the mayor of North Slope Borough. He is the former mayor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pete Slaiby of Shell at a community meeting in Alaska. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOREN HOLMES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
HEADED NORTH: The Kulluk, seen against the Seattle skyline, is one of two Shell drilling ships in the city now undergoing final preparations before going to the Arctic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
PETE SLAIBY, an executive with Shell, who was sent to Alaska to negotiate with local politicians and businesses to pave the way for Arctic drilling.
ROY NAGEAK, 60, a whaling captain from Alaska's North Slope, where temperatures can reach 50 below zero. (A20)
OBJECT OF THE HUNT: For the nearly 5,000 Eskimos of the North Slope, the migration patterns of whales dictate the rhythm of life.
FEELING THE PRESSURE: Edward S. Itta, an acclaimed whaling captain, was at one point Shell's biggest obstacle in Alaska. A lawsuit he filed temporarily blocked drilling, but he began to have second thoughts.
PUSHING FOR OIL: Senator Mark Begich of Alaska, a drilling proponent, had leverage with Mr. Obama as a crucial Democratic vote. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 LOOKING FOR COMPROMISE: President Obama, at a talk in March, came to accept new offshore drilling as part of a broader energy policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) MAPS: Shell plans to begin drilling test wells off the coast of northern Alaska in July, which would open a new frontier in domestic oil exploration. (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); AIR QUALITY (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); THANKSGIVING (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); POWER PLANTS (69%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (60%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CAROL BROWNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) ARCTIC (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



924 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: As Computing Changes, H.P. Struggles to Follow

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
SAN FRANCISCO -- As the computer industry makes a radical shift to new modes of computing -- in the cloud and on tablets and smartphones -- Hewlett-Packard, a stalwart of the previous era, finds it hard to keep up.
It is not alone in that struggle. H.P., along with well-established tech companies like Dell and Cisco Systems, is contending with a faster-than-expected move by consumers and businesses from personal computers and small racks of computer servers toward mobile phones and tablets that are connected to millions of servers, all lashed together in remote supercomputing ''clouds.'' 
The new systems are cheaper and more flexible, which businesses found appealing in a slow-growing economy. As for consumers, they have been dazzled by the new devices and abilities of those devices enabled by the cloud.
So far, however, the industry shift has rewarded upstarts like Amazon.com, which has become a premier cloud provider to business, and Apple, which reinvented itself with smartphones and tablets. The old guard in enterprise computing, particularly H.P., has struggled with a new technology order that squeezed profit margins and made many older products unattractive.
This was obvious on Wednesday, when H.P. reported revenue and net income below year-earlier levels, although both exceeded Wall Street's expectations.
H.P. said it would cut its ranks by 27,000 employees, or 7.7 percent of a global work force of 349,600. Many of the jobs are in the United States. H.P. hopes to save as much as $3.5 billion a year from the restructuring, most of which it would put toward cloud-based businesses, like computer security and analysis of large data troves.
Wall Street applauded the results. Shares rose 9 percent in after-hours trading. H.P.'s chief executive, Meg Whitman, however, warned that real success was a long way off.
''We don't aspire to have a 3 percent decline in revenues,'' she said in an interview after the earnings announcement. ''There are big changes going on, and we have to position ourselves.''
She also vowed that H.P., which had revenue of $127.2 billion in its last fiscal year, ''will be much bigger,'' both in employees and revenue. She did not provide a timeline, however.
H.P., headquartered in Palo Alto, Calif., reported net income in its second fiscal quarter, ended April 30, dropped 31 percent, to $1.59 billion, or 80 cents a share, from $2.3 billion, or $1.05, in the period a year ago. Revenue fell 3 percent, to $30.69 billion.
H.P.'s results followed similar news from its archrival Dell on Tuesday. That computer company reported that its first fiscal quarter's net income fell 33 percent, to $635 million, while revenue slid 4 percent, to $14.4 billion. Dell reported a 12 percent decline in consumer revenue, and smaller declines in both business and government sales. Dell's stock plunged 17 percent Wednesday on the earnings report -- which, unlike Hewlett-Packard's, came in below analysts' forecasts.
Earlier this month, Cisco reported a 22 percent increase in net income after its own corporate restructuring over the last year, but warned of falling demand, in part because of Europe's faltering economy.
Ms. Whitman, whose company makes computer networking gear too, also said she was troubled by Europe.
She said H.P. ''has an opportunity in cloud that no one else does.'' It is still among the world's largest providers of servers and data storage systems for privately run clouds, used by companies not comfortable with having their data on commodity systems like Amazon's. Sales of advanced storage and networking systems rose rapidly.
Software delivered over cloud computing is typically less profitable, since it is effectively rented cheaply, without a lucrative service contract. ''We have an advantage, because we are not running a $30 billion business, just $5 billion,'' she said, arguing that Wall Street would punish traditional software companies more.
Of all H.P.'s competitors, I.B.M. has fared best in the transition to the mobility and cloud world. I.B.M. has bet billions on the cloud-based business of big data analysis. In its most recent quarter, however, I.B.M. reported flat sales but improved profits because of tight management.
Ms. Whitman, who took control of the company last September, said H.P. had to reposition itself quickly, but also said it would have enough time, since its largest corporate customers would move gradually to full cloud computing. ''We're not lagging in the transition to the cloud,'' she said. ''The enterprise changes slowly.''
A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst with Bernstein Research, said he expected the change would come slowly. ''It's going to be a PC, printer and enterprise hardware company. Can they build that up to resonate more with what customers are buying today? Yes. In five years, will you see a new $20 billion line of business? No.''
Mr. Sacconaghi said H.P. could, over the long term, grow at 2 percent. With tighter management, that could make it a very profitable big company in the new world.
He said Ms. Whitman was out to change H.P. without putting it through a traumatic transformation, unlike previous recent chief executives like Carly Fiorina and Leo Apotheker. Mark V. Hurd managed the company tightly rather than radically, though he too was pushed out.
''C.E.O.'s who try to transform H.P. end badly,'' Mr. Sacconaghi said. ''C.E.O.'s who embrace the company, like Hurd and so far Whitman, do considerably better.''
Online Correction: May 23, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article published online misstated a forecast made before Hewlett-Packard's earnings announcement. A survey of analysts had projected 73 cents a share in net income according to generally accepted accounting principles, a level the company's results surpassed. The article also included an outdated figure for the company's work force.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There are big changes going on, and we have to position ourselves,'' said Meg Whitman, Hewlett-Packard's chief executive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CLOUD COMPUTING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (87%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



925 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Buffett's Goldman Deal Is Topic in an Insider Case

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
Byron D. Trott has spent a career carefully cultivating the image of the discreet investment banker, a behind-the-scenes consigliere to some of America's wealthiest businessmen, including his star client, Warren E. Buffett. At Goldman Sachs, Mr. Trott was so vigilant about guarding clients' confidences that he was known to fire underlings who discussed private matters in the bank's elevators.
But on Wednesday, Mr. Trott was forced to speak publicly about one of his biggest and most important deals - Mr. Buffett's $5 billion investment in Goldman during the heart of the financial crisis in September 2008.
Mr. Trott took the witness stand for about an hour on Wednesday at the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman director charged with leaking boardroom secrets to his friend and business associate Raj Rajaratnam. Among the accusations is that Mr. Gupta gave Mr. Rajaratnam advance word of Mr. Buffett's Goldman investment. 
The government says that Mr. Rajaratnam traded on Mr. Gupta's tips, reaping big profits for his Galleon Group hedge fund. Convicted by a jury of insider trading last year, Mr. Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence. Mr. Gupta's trial, in Federal District Court in Manhattan before Judge Jed S. Rakoff, began on Monday and is expected to last about three weeks.
Mr. Trott's testimony focused on the days surrounding Mr. Buffett's investment in Goldman, a tumultuous time in the markets. But first, a prosecutor asked Mr. Trott to tell the jury who Mr. Buffett was.
''He's the most respected businessman and investor in America,'' Mr. Trott said.
Mr. Gupta's lawyer objected to such a superlative.
''I didn't think that was in dispute,'' said Judge Rakoff, breaking into a smile.
Judge Rakoff posed his own question to Mr. Trott for the jury's sake, exercising more restraint in his description: ''Is he a very large and well-known investor?''
''Yes,'' Mr. Trott acknowledged.
Mr. Trott, 53, has established a niche advising many of the country's richest families, including the Wrigleys and the Pritzkers. As a Goldman banker, he began advising Mr. Buffett in 2002 and has advised his company, Berkshire Hathaway, on numerous deals.
''Byron is the rare investment banker who puts himself in his client's shoes,'' wrote Mr. Buffett in his 2008 investor letter. Five years before that, Mr. Buffett wrote that Mr. Trott ''understands Berkshire far better than any investment banker with whom we have talked and - it hurts me to say this - earns his fee.''
The silver-haired Mr. Trott, at ease on the witness stand and at times flashing a broad smile, gave the jury an account of how Mr. Buffett's investment materialized. He described the dark days of September 2008, when Lehman Brothers, which Mr. Trott described as a ''second-tier investment bank,'' had filed for bankruptcy and there were questions about whether other banks like Goldman could survive.
His purpose in testifying, according to people briefed on the prosecutors' strategy, was to explain how quickly the Buffett deal came together and how few people knew about it - other than Mr. Gupta - before it was announced.
''This was about as top secret as you can get,'' said Mr. Trott, who left Goldman in 2009 to start his own investment firm, BDT Capital Partners.
Mr. Trott, who lives in Chicago, testified that he was at a client meeting near O'Hare Airport on Sept. 22, 2008, when he received a call on his cellphone from Goldman's co-president, Jon Winkelried. Mr. Winkelried told him that Goldman was planning to raise $10 billion in a common stock offering to help the bank address its problems and calm the markets.
Upon hearing the news, Mr. Trott said that he pitched Mr. Winkelried on having Mr. Buffett act as a ''cornerstone investor'' on the transaction. He said he would fly to New York immediately so he could discuss the idea with the rest of Goldman's top officers.
The next morning, on the 30th floor of Goldman's former headquarters at 85 Broad Street in Lower Manhattan, Mr. Trott outlined a deal that he thought Mr. Buffett would agree to and would also make sense for the bank.
''It was hugely credentializing,'' he said. ''It was like getting the Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval.''
Later that morning, Mr. Trott said, he had a conversation with Mr. Buffett. Earlier in the year he had floated the idea of investing in Goldman to Mr. Buffett, who rejected the proposal. This time around, Mr. Trott said, the terms would have to be sweeter.
''I have a different proposal for you,'' Mr. Trott said, according to his testimony.
Mr. Trott offered Mr. Buffett a ''preferred with warrants,'' a complex security that gave Mr. Buffett 10 percent annual interest on a $5 billion investment plus the option to buy additional Goldman stock at a set price.
''I know Warren very well,'' testified Mr. Trott. ''We had done numerous deals together and I knew the structure that he would want.''
After Mr. Buffett accepted the terms, Mr. Trott testified, he took the deal back to the bank's senior executives. Around lunchtime, the executives agreed to take the deal to the board for a vote. But before they could do that, they needed to inform Mr. Buffett that the deal had been officially agreed upon. But Mr. Buffett was unavailable until after 2:30 p.m. A prosecutor asked Mr. Trott why.
''He promised his grandkids that he would take them to Dairy Queen'' - the ice cream and fast-food chain owned by Mr. Buffett - ''and he did not want to be interrupted,'' said Mr. Trott, eliciting laughter from the jury.
Mr. Trott said that after firming things up with Mr. Buffett, Goldman held a board meeting by telephone at 3:15 p.m. The board approved the investment. Minutes later, the government says, Mr. Gupta called Mr. Rajaratnam and told him to buy Goldman stock. Prosecutors have said Mr. Rajaratnam reaped nearly $1 million by trading before the announcement.
Outside the jury on Wednesday, the prosecution and defense focused on another Goldman employee - David Loeb, a salesman who worked closely with Galleon.
The prosecutor, Reed Brodsky, said that Mr. Loeb had passed illicit tips about Intel, Apple and Hewlett-Packard to Mr. Rajaratnam. A lawyer for Mr. Gupta said that Mr. Loeb can be heard on a secretly recorded telephone call giving confidential information about those companies.
The defense, which complained to Judge Rakoff that prosecutors had not disclosed evidence about Mr. Loeb, is using the government's investigation of three other Goldman executives to suggest to the jury that there were other sources of inside information within the bank.
Prosecutors have countered that these executives, including Mr. Loeb, had no access to confidential information about Goldman. A Goldman executive declined to comment.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: May 24, 2012, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of Jon Winkelried as Winkelreid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Byron D. Trott, a former vice chairman at Goldman Sachs who is known for discretion regarding clients, testified Wednesday. (B1)
 Rajat K. Gupta, left, a former Goldman Sachs director, and his lawyer, Gary P. Naftalis, outside court on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOUIS LANZANO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WITNESSES (88%); SENTENCING (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); JUDGES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); VERDICTS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (79%); WARREN BUFFETT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



926 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Bain Strategy Holds Pitfalls For President

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Last week, a few dozen hedge fund and investment executives arrived at the Park Avenue home of Hamilton E. James, president of the private equity firm Blackstone. Each had paid $35,800 to spend two hours at a fund-raiser with President Obama, but the timing proved awkward: A few hours earlier, Mr. Obama's campaign had begun a blistering attack on Mitt Romney's career in private equity, the same business in which Mr. James has earned his many millions.
''Campaigns do what campaigns have to do,'' Mr. James later told friends. But not everyone was as forgiving. ''People were incredulous,'' said one person who attended the dinner. ''They could have waited a week.''
Debates over how much to blame -- and regulate -- Wall Street have stoked tensions between Democrats and the financial industry ever since Mr. Obama took office amid a financial crisis. But now Mr. Obama is leveraging his bully pulpit and advertising dollars to argue that Mr. Romney's career as a successful financial executive exhibited values that are not those of a good president. 
In doing so, he has not only drawn criticism from allies like Steven L. Rattner, the investor and former adviser on the auto industry, and Cory A. Booker, the mayor of Newark and a favorite of New York's hedge fund world. Mr. Obama may also be testing a bond first formed by Bill Clinton, who persuaded much of his party's elite that Democrats could be both populist and friendly to Wall Street.
''I think the consensus, such as it was, has badly eroded under the pressure of events,'' said William Galston, a former Clinton adviser who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''The depth, the severity, and the length of the Great Recession have exacerbated strains within the country and within the Democratic coalition.''
For some Democrats, the line Mr. Obama is trying to walk -- between asserting that Mr. Romney's career at Bain Capital does not support his claim to be a job creator, and criticizing the private equity industry as a whole, between his acknowledgments of the vital role in the economy played by big investors and the scorching attack ads aired by his campaign -- is a perilous one.
At stake are not only a political and policy relationship Democrats have nurtured over decades with the financial services industry, but the millions of dollars in campaign cash that have come with it. Already this year, securities and investment firms have given Republicans 59 percent of their donations, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, the party's highest share since the center began tabulating campaign money. Mr. Obama has raised millions of dollars on Wall Street, but far less than he did four years ago.
It is one of the most delicate topics within the party these days. Two Democrats with close ties to Wall Street, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York, declined to comment on Wednesday. Other lobbyists, donors and industry executives declined to speak for the record, saying they did not want to highlight internal divisions and debates.
Peace, some Democrats noted, was easy to achieve during the boom years of the 1990s, when the Clinton administration favored Wall Street deregulation and financiers were lionized in the popular press.
The party's reigning economic orthodoxy then was Rubinomics, named for its prime author, the former Goldman Sachs chairman Robert Rubin, who felt that a credible attack on deficits would lower interest rates and spur economic growth. Even as recently as a few years ago, the alleged ''bromance'' of Mr. Obama and Jamie Dimon, the president of JPMorganChase, was a running joke in Wall Street circles. Now Mr. Dimon calls himself ''barely a Democrat.''
Former Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat, said Wednesday that while he ''didn't like the tone of the attacks on Bain,'' he thought the party's relationship with Wall Street had shifted with good reason.
''Wall Street screwed up the nation's economy and the world economy,'' Mr. Rendell said. The White House's approach to regulation was reasonable, he added. ''What do they want us to do?''
The gulf between Wall Street and the White House may well be more about noise than substance. Many bankers complain about tough language from the administration, with Mr. Obama's attacks on Bain merely the latest incarnation. And the administration's cold shoulder to the blue-ribbon deficit-reduction plan issued in 2010 by a bipartisan panel remains a sore point for many Wall Street executives who call themselves political moderates.
But some privately concede that Dodd-Frank and other regulations pushed by Mr. Obama have done little damage to their industry, and that the steps taken by the Bush and Obama administrations during the financial crisis starting four years ago averted what could have been a much worse outcome for them. (Even with a recent multibillion-dollar trading blunder, JPMorgan Chase is expected to earn $4 billion in the second quarter.)
And when it comes to personnel, Mr. Obama's White House is hardly hostile to Wall Street. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner took an early stand against proposals to nationalize ailing banks. The current director of the administration's National Economic Council, Gene B. Sperling, and his predecessor, Lawrence H. Summers, were both veterans of Mr. Clinton's economics team -- and both worked at investment firms before joining the Obama administration.
All three men who have served as Mr. Obama's White House chief of staff took private-sector detours through the financial industry: Rahm Emanuel (Wasserstein Perella), William M. Daley (JPMorgan Chase), and Jacob Lew (Citigroup). Two private equity executives, Richard D. Parsons, a senior adviser to Providence Equity Partners who retired last month as chairman of Citigroup, and Mark T. Gallogly, a founder of Centerbridge Partners and a top Obama donor, sit on the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness.
Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-highest-ranking Democrat in the Senate, said he had not heard of any Wall Street donors turning their backs on his party. But if it happened, Mr. Durbin said, Democrats should stick to their principles.
''Perhaps some will conclude that they cannot support any Democrats now,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''I have heard Jamie Dimon talk about how he's barely a Democrat and he hates regulations -- but look at what just happened. If we walk away from that because we have to pick up some campaign donations, we'd be totally abdicating our responsibilities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward G. Rendell, the former governor of Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); BONDS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ED RENDELL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



927 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: May 24, 1883 | Brooklyn Bridge Opens

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On May 24, 1883, the Brooklyn Bridge, linking Brooklyn with Manhattan, was opened to traffic with a celebration attended by dignitaries and Emily Roebling, the wife of the bridge's main engineer, Washington Roebling. 

 BODY:
On May 24, 1883, the Brooklyn Bridge, linking Brooklyn with Manhattan, was opened to traffic with a celebration attended by President Chester A. Arthur, Gov. Grover Cleveland of New York, and Emily Roebling, the wife of the bridge's main engineer, Washington Roebling.
The May 25 New York Times reported, "The pleasant weather brought visitors by the thousands from all around. It is estimated that over 50,000 people came in by the railroads alone, and swarms by the sound boats and by the ferry-boats helped to swell the crowds in both cities. The opening of the bridge was decidedly Brooklyn's celebration. New York's participation in it was meager, save as to the crowd which thronged her streets."
The bridge took 13 years to construct at a cost of $15 million. German immigrant John A. Roebling drafted original plans for the bridge, but he died in an accident a year before construction began. His son, Washington, took over the project and worked alongside laborers in underwater chambers known as caissons. He, like many of the workers, became ill with "caissons disease," a disease now known as decompression sickness or "the bends," which occurs when one returns to the surface after spending time underwater. The disease forced Roebling to take leave from the project in 1872 and oversee the remainder of the construction from his home, with his wife serving as a liaison between him and the construction crew.
When it opened, the Brooklyn Bridge, also referred to as the Great East River Bridge, was the largest suspension bridge in the world, with a span of 1,595 feet. It had two carriageways and two railway lines, with a raised middle platform for pedestrians, who could cross the bridge for the price of one cent. It was the first land connection between New York and Brooklyn, which previously was linked only by ferry or boat. 
Six days after the bridge's opening, a stampede caused at least 12 people to die when thousands of pedestrians became panicked. A year later, circus promoter P.T. Barnum displayed the strength of the bridge by leading 21 elephants across it.
Connect to Today:
In a February 2012 letter to the editor, Joan Marans Dim and Antonio Masi, authors of "New York's Golden Age of Bridges," wrote that, unlike the past, much of the steel used to build today's bridges in the United States -- like the new decks on the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge -- is produced in foreign countries like China. They wrote: "Once upon a time, America built big things. There existed a golden age of bridge construction All were engineering marvels. Many were built during difficult economic times. All were built with American-made steel and other American-made products. America is no longer capable of building (or rebuilding) American-made large-scale bridges."
In your opinion has the decline of heavy industry in the United States negatively affected American engineering? Why or why not? How do you think modern projects will measure up to those created during the "golden age," like the Brooklyn Bridge or the Golden Gate Bridge, which celebrates its 75th anniversary in 2012? Why?
Learn more about what happened in history on May 24
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
PUB-DATE: May 10, 1869
        
Oct. 27, 1904 | New York City Subway System Opens
        
The Subway in Pictures

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); ENGINEERING (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); IMMIGRATION (68%); WRITERS (65%) Brooklyn; New York; transportation; Historic Headlines

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



928 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Enter, Laffering

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Remembrances of predictions past. 

 BODY:
Sorry about blog silence. Too much stuff in Seattle.
Tomorrow is Lalaland, doing Bill Maher. Also on, Art Laffer.
This might be an occasion to revisit some of the predictions various parties made a few years back. Here's Laffer three years ago, Get Ready for Inflation and Higher Interest Rates:
But as bad as the fiscal picture is, panic-driven monetary policies portend to have even more dire consequences. We can expect rapidly rising prices and much, much higher interest rates over the next four or five years, and a concomitant deleterious impact on output and employment not unlike the late 1970s.
OK, it's only three years, so I guess there's still time for the hyperinflation -- but it had better get a move on. I think my take is doing a bit better:
Let me add, for the 1.6 trillionth time, . And in such circumstances a rise in the monetary base does not lead to inflation.
Also, my declaration at about the same time that 
our current predicament can be thought of as a global excess of desired savings - which means that fiscal deficits won't drive up interest rates unless they also expand the economy.
Incidentally, we're coming up on the second anniversary of my attack on the myths of austerity.
Just thought it might be worth recalling all this stuff for the record.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



929 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's New Leader Mulls Country's Forest Protections

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Brazil's new leader faces a decision on forests laws that could have a huge impact on the Amazon. 

 BODY:
Lou Gold, an American expatriate living in Brazil's portion of the Amazon River basin who is a frequent presence on Dot Earth, is keeping track of efforts to change the country's Forest Code and has posted a helpful update on his blog, excerpted here with permission:
Tomorrow, 25 May 2012, is the deadline for Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff to decide whether to accept or veto (in whole or part) the devastating new national Forest Code that was passed recently by the Brazilian Congress.... There seemed to be a hopeful change during the Lula Administration (2003-2011) as Environmental Minister Marina Silva and her colleagues put in place a new policy architecture of protected areas and sustainable development, and her successor Carlos Minc instituted a "shock-and-awe" campaign of aggressive enforcement of the Forest Code which resulted, along with mega-economic trends such as the 2008 crash, in dramatically reduced rates of new deforestation.
But it also triggered a push-back from the "ruralistas" (the farm bloc in Congress) and their allies among the more unscrupulous developmentalists who were not offended by laws that were not enforced. When faced with the prospect of having to compensate for past illegal actions and stiff enforcement, they demanded amnesty and generally weakened regulations which now threaten to unravel the progress that Brazil has achieved in recent years. (The environment group WWF lists the negative features of the new forest code here.)
The changed forest law is not only opposed by the usual assortment of environmentalists and social activists. The NY Time's Simon Romero reports that President Dilma is facing a Forest Code decision, on the eve of the UN's World Sustainability Conference RIO+20, that will probably be for Brazil a defining moment:

The Forest Code is not the only challenge. The leading Amazon researcher Philip Fearnside -- author of over 450 publications and identified in 2006 by Thompson-ISI as the world's second most-cited scientist on the subject of global warming -- has an an excellent analysis of the many threats to the forests of Amazonia. But making matters much worse recently is Brazil's quest for energy to support its expanding economy that has triggered a massive rush toward large hydroelectric projects. [Read the rest.]

        
A Worried View of the Amazon From Within its Forest
        
Can the Amazon Thrive in the 21st Century?
        
Can Roads and Rain Forests Co-Exist?
        
A Postcard on Amazon Forest Trends
        
The Uncertain Legacy of Chico Mendes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FORESTS & WOODLANDS (92%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TRENDS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); DEFORESTATION (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (77%); VETO (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); RIVERS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) amazon; Brazil; forests; rain forest; your dot; Romero, Simon; Silva, Marina; Economic Conditions and Trends; Forests and Forestry; Amazon Jungle; South America; Agriculture; environmental policy

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%) Romero, Simon; Silva, Marina

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%) Amazon Jungle; Brazil; South America

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



930 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Introducing Beth Shaw, a New Business Group Member

BYLINE: ADRIANA GARDELLA


HIGHLIGHT: YogaFit faces several challenges. Annual sales are down from a high of $5 million in 2009, a drop the owner attributes partly to a more crowded market and partly to the company's unprofitable merchandise division. 

 BODY:
In my last post, we met one of two new members to join our business group. This post introduces a second.
Owner: Beth Shaw.
Company: YogaFit trains yoga instructors, entering into exclusive partnerships with yoga studios and health club chains, including Gold's Gym, 24 Hour Fitness, Can Fit Pro, and Town Sports International, the holding company for New York Sports Club. Additionally, the company hosts fitness conferences, teacher training and retreats worldwide.
2011 Sales: $4.4 million.
Employees: Twelve at the company's headquarters; 60 trainers (independent contractors).
Beth Shaw, 46, became interested in yoga after she moved from New York City to Los Angeles in 1989. While working in advertising sales for various magazines, she decided to get certified as an instructor and teach at fitness clubs as a hobby. When she did, she found that traditional methods of teaching yoga weren't suited to the fitness club environment with its bright lights, cold rooms, and wide range of student flexibility levels. 
So she developed her YogaFit teaching style with the goal of making yoga more accessible. Her innovations included adding moves like push-ups, sit-ups, squats and eliminating Sanskrit pose names and chanting. Ms. Shaw's classes were popular, and in 1994, a health club approached her to open a yoga center on its premises - taking over a former golf room.
At a time when yoga classes were not yet ubiquitous at health clubs, Ms. Shaw began to promote yoga to the fitness industry, writing articles for fitness-related trade magazines. The positive responses led her to incorporate YogaFit in 1997 and to introduce the company's first training session that year.
Since then, Ms. Shaw said, YogaFit has become the largest yoga school in North America and has trained some 200,000 instructors worldwide. Additionally, in 2011, she opened YogaFit Canada, a separate entity based in Toronto. Although YogaFit's offices are in Torrance, Calif. Ms. Shaw is frequently in New York City.
She said Yoga Fit faces several challenges. Annual sales are down from a high of $5 million in 2009, a drop she attributes partly to a more crowded market and partly to the company's unprofitable merchandise division, which she plans to cut back.
In 1998, when Ms. Shaw opened a YogaFit studio, which has since closed and is no longer a part of her business model, she sold clothing branded with the company name and logo. She said it was a great way to build local awareness. But gradually YogaFit began expanding into non-branded clothing, like cargo pants and T-shirts. "I tried to get a collection together for retail and that hasn't worked out so well," said Ms. Shaw. She added that that aspect of the business "started to take a big hit when the economy tanked, which is when we launched our high-end line."
Ms. Shaw said she has since realized that Yoga Fit is not in the fashion business. "I can make a lot more revenue doing what we do best, and that's education - you can't do everything."
Going forward, Ms. Shaw would like to sell only a streamlined selection of branded clothing (YogaFit also carries lines of CDs, DVDs, and accessories, which it will continue to offer). "Most of our sales happen at our trainings or conferences, and people want branded stuff," she said.
She would also like to find a licensing partner to manufacture and sell her merchandise. Recalling an order of bodysuits that arrived from China with "holes in all the wrong places," she said she would happily settle for a percentage of sales in exchange for getting out of the apparel business.
But for now, about $500,000 worth of Yoga Fit's unsold merchandise is taking up 2,500-square-feet of warehouse space. She said the clothing has been going back and forth to conferences and trainings. "At some point, a pair of tights that cost me $10 has now probably cost me $20," she said.
Her options are to sell the garments to a jobber - someone who buys for discount stores such as T.J.Maxx or Winners - for $3 a piece, a big loss, or to continue having Web site fire sales and lugging the clothing to conferences and trainings. She is leaning toward the first option. "At some point you have to cut your losses and just move on," she said.

        
Do Men Treat Female Business Owners Differently?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: YOGA (92%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FITNESS CENTERS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); BRANDING (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%) 24 Hour Fitness; Beth Shaw; Can Fit Pro; Gold's Gym; licensing; New York Sports Club; T.J. Maxx; Town Sports International; Winners; YogaFit; YogaFit Canada; Fashion and Apparel; Health Clubs; Small Business; Yoga; She Owns It

COMPANY: GOLD'S GYM INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); TOWN SPORTS INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: CLUB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (58%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (58%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (58%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



931 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Seeking 2% in Interest? Try a High-Yield Checking Account

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: A survey finds there are some high-yield checking accounts that pay 2 percent interest or more, but the accounts have many requirements. 

 BODY:
Is your cash stuck in the interest-rate doldrums? There are some checking accounts that pay more than 2 percent, a recent review found, and that, at the moment, is considered a high yield.
Bankrate.comlooked at 57 high-yield accounts at banks and credit unions in the United States and found that the average annual percentage yield is 2.05 percent.
That's a drop from last year's average of 2.56 percent. But it beats the piddling 0.06 percent for the average interest-bearing checking account.
But there are caveats. High-yield accounts carry a lot of requirements -- most commonly, for a minimum number of debit transactions each month (typically, at least 10). Requirements for direct deposit and automated bill payments are also common to get the higher interest rate. Failing to meet the criteria in a given month means the interest rate falls precipitously, to less than 1 percent.
In addition, the higher yield usually applies up to a certain balance limit; amounts above the cap don't earn the premium yield. The most common balance cap continues to be $25,000. But the 10 highest-yielding accounts all have balance caps of $15,000 or less.
"It's not as simple as just finding the account with the highest yield, because that higher yield applies only up to a certain balance," said Greg McBride, senior financial analyst for Bankrate.com.
Rather, consumers need to calibrate the amount of money they plan to keep in the account, he said, to make sure they're getting the most benefit. If customers know they'll routinely meet the requirements, the accounts make sense, he said.
Forty percent of the accounts reviewed can be opened online or by phone from anywhere in the country; the remainder may have geographic constraints.
Do you have a high-yield checking account? Do you consistently get the highest rate?

        
Comparing Checking Account and Prepaid Debit Card Fees
        
Problems With Online Bill Paying at Big Banks
        
ING Direct Adds Remote Check Deposit App
        
The Confusion Over Your Bank's Overdraft Policies
        
When Banks Compete With Check-Cashing Stores

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (95%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (73%); PREPAID CARDS (69%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%) Checking Accounts; Banking and Financial Institutions; Checks and Checking Accounts; National Assn of Realtors

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (58%); ING BANK FSB (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%) National Assn of Realtors

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



932 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: New Producers, New Opening for 'Prince of Broadway'

BYLINE: ERIK PIEPENBURG


HIGHLIGHT: "Prince of Broadway," the musical retrospective of the career of the Tony Award-winning producer and director Harold Prince, will open on Broadway in the fall of 2013 with a new set of producers. 

 BODY:
"Prince of Broadway," the musical retrospective of the career of the Tony Award-winning producer and director Harold Prince, will open on Broadway in the fall of 2013 instead of in November as originally planned, the show's new producing team announced on Thursday.
In a statement on behalf of his fellow producers, Steven Baruch said: "After reviewing everything ranging from the schedules of the creative team, theater availability, advance group sales needs, among many other elements, we have determined that the optimum time for the show to open on Broadway would be the Fall of 2013."
The other members of the team are Marc Routh, Richard Frankel, and Tom Viertel. The four were the lead producers behind "Leap of Faith,'' the flop musical that closed this season at a $14 million loss.
In April the Toronto-based theater enterprise Dancap Productions pulled out as lead producers of "Prince of Broadway," a month after they had announced that the Tony winners Linda Lavin ("Broadway Bound"), LaChanze ("The Color Purple") and Shuler Hensley ("Oklahoma!") would be part of the 12-person cast, which also includes Daniel Breaker ("Passing Strange"), Sebastian Arcelus ("Elf") and Emily Skinner ("Side Show").
Susan Stroman ("The Producers") will choreograph and co-direct with Mr. Prince, the winner of 21 Tony awards for such legendary productions as "Fiddler on the Roof," "Cabaret," "Company," "Follies" and "The Phantom of the Opera." The book is by David Thompson.
A spokesman for "Prince of Broadway" said no further information would be available.

        
Theater Talkback: An Actress Makes a Choice and Two Others May Benefit
        
'4000 Miles' and Its Lead Actors Win Obie Awards
        
Amy Ryan and David Schwimmer Head to 'Detroit'
        
Theater Talkback: Against Ovation Inflation
        
Don't Stop the Press! 'Newsies' Run Is Now Open-Ended

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%) Theater; Baruch, Steven; Frankel, Richard; Prince, Harold; Routh, Marc; Viertel, Thomas; Prince of Broadway (Play); New York City

PERSON: Baruch, Steven; Frankel, Richard; Prince, Harold; Routh, Marc; Viertel, Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



933 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Young, Educated and Seeking Financial Security

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Above all other major life goals like marriage or fulfilling careers, today's college students and recent graduates are looking for financial security, a new survey finds. 

 BODY:
Above all other major life goals, today's college students and recent graduates are looking for financial security.
That's one finding from a report released today from the Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University.
In February the center surveyed juniors, seniors and graduate students at four-year colleges -- as well as working college graduates of earlier generations -- about life and career. Among the more interesting questions was one about the importance of various life goals.
While young people, and particularly today's generation of young people, are generally thought to be more interested in pursuing their ideals and passions than money, 91 percent of college students and 95 percent of millennials (here referring to college graduates between ages of 21 and 32) said that being financially secure was either essential or very important to them.
Perhaps shaken by the terrible economy they are graduating into, these young Americans are about as concerned with lifetime financial security as boomers and Gen Xers are, as you can see in the chart above.
Much smaller shares of young people felt equally driven about being a leader in their community or having a job with an impact on causes they cared about, although they were still more likely to emphasize these goals than their elder counterparts were.
Younger respondents were also significantly more likely to say wealth was an essential or very important life goal. While I'd expect young, indebted, stranded grads to want financial security, I would have guessed that affluence was lower on the priority list. Millennials, after all, have unusually high volunteering rates compared to earlier cohorts of young people.
This is the first time the Heldrich Center asked these specific questions, so it's hard to know to what extent these generational differences are due to aging, current (and eventually passing) economic conditions or something culturally specific to each age cohort.
For example, millennial graduates are more likely to rate having a spouse as an essential life goal than are current college students. Maybe there's a cultural divide between the two groups, or maybe college students are less likely to have marriage on their radar screen.

        
Why Are the Middle-Aged Less Happy?
        
Tighter Wallets for All, Especially the Oldest
        
Which Generation Has It Worst?
        
Will You Be More Successful Than Your Parents?
        
Regrets About College

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GENERATION Y (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); GENERATION X (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) Baby Boomers; Colleges and Universities; Generation X; Generation Y; John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Developments at R; volunteering; wealth; Work-Life Balance; Youth; Center for Workforce Development

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (58%) Center for Workforce Development

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



934 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Theater Talkback: An Actress Makes a Choice and Two Others May Benefit

BYLINE: CHARLES ISHERWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: By choosing to play the lead in "The Lyons," for which she is Tony-nominated, Linda Lavin gave up two smaller parts that have earned nods for the actresses who took them on. 

 BODY:
Fabulously funny as she is, strafing her nearest and dearest as a lovably hateful mother in "The Lyons," Linda Lavin may not come home with a Tony Award this year. She has the fortunate misfortune of being nominated in the most competitive category in the awards, leading actress in a play.
As Rita Lyons, embittered wife and exasperated mother in Nicky Silver's splenetic comedy of family discord at the Cort Theater, Ms. Lavin makes an ample acting feast of her character's motherly malice. Her timing is peerless; she can win a belly laugh just by placing a basso-profundo emphasis on a single word; and she's the reigning stage mistress of the withering eye roll discernible from the back row.
It's great fun to watch her deliver Rita's passive-aggressive sallies at her family with the offhand air of a woman engaged in the most ordinary of activities, like plucking dead leaves from a potted plant. Her performance also miraculously manages to bind together the character's inconsistencies - does Rita really love her son, or is there nothing but chipped ice in that heart? - so expertly that you don't notice them until you've left the theater. (And has anyone but me noted that the play's title should really be "The Lyonses"? Not to nitpick or anything.)
But Ms. Lavin's competition for the Tony is formidable. Her fellow nominees include a couple of blazing newcomers -- the exciting young talent Nina Arianda, radiating wit and mystery in equal measures in David Ives's nifty two-handed psychological thriller "Venus in Fur," and Tracie Bennett, explosively channeling Judy Garland in extremis in the sadly tawdry (albeit juicy) London import "End of the Rainbow."
Two highly respected stage veterans are also in contention: Stockard Channing, as the poised Palm Springs matriarch whose carefully manicured life comes unhinged in "Other Desert Cities," and the ever-wonderful Cynthia Nixon as the dying literary critic in the revival of "Wit."
But even should Ms. Lavin end the night with no twirling trophy to put on the mantel, she deserves some kind of honor for the remarkable year she has had onstage - and, in a bizarre twist that adds a soupon of drama to this year's awards, for the opportunities she's given other actresses by choosing to get offstage.
Consider this peculiar, possibly unprecedented fact: two other actresses are nominated for Tony awards this year for roles Ms. Lavin first played in the productions in question. In both cases Ms. Lavin chose to forego an assured perch on Broadway in favor of taking on the ravaging Rita, when it must have seemed pretty unlikely that "The Lyons," which opened off Broadway last fall, would move uptown. (It's the firstof Mr. Silver's many sharp-tongued, sad-hearted comedies to do so.)
Judith Light is in contention in the featured actress in a play category for the role of Silda in "Other Desert Cities." Ms. Lavin was the first, formidably funny Silda when that play, by Jon Robin Baitz, opened off Broadway last winter. Meanwhile, Jayne Houdyshell is nominated in the featured actress in a musical category for her performance as Hattie, the "Broadway Baby"-belting trouper in the acclaimed revival of "Follies." Ms. Lavin played that role first, too, when the production opened at the Kennedy Center last summer.
With hand-me-downs like that, who needs to buy retail? Both roles are small, glittering gems that afford fine actresses wonderful chances to display new aspects of their talents.
Ms. Houdyshell, whose performance in Lisa Kron's "Well" remains a high-water mark of comic naturalism,managed the heroic feat of making "Broadway Baby" - one of the most frequently performed songs from "Follies" - feel as fresh and funny as it must have when it was first written. With her popping eyes and air of sincere innocence, Ms. Houdyshell's Hattie retained something unmistakably girlish, even babyish. As her delivery of Mr. Sondheim's affectionate tribute to troupers slowly gained in polish and power, it was as if the magic of being in the spotlight were stripping away the years to reveal the scene-stealer long since buried beneath Hattie's now-retiring and frumpishly ordinary exterior.
I didn't get the chance to see Ms. Lavin play Hattie in Washington, but I did see her Silda in "Other Desert Cities," and, generally speaking, I'd have to say that taking over a role from Ms. Lavin is probably about as appealing as playing an exhibition match opposite Roger Federer. And yet Ms. Light brought moving shades to the character that made me quickly cast aside vivid memories of Ms. Lavin's wry dissolution. Silda's mordant humor was inflected with a sense of bone-deep despair that suffused the play like a mournful tune that hovers on the edge of your consciousness, making its impression without ever fully capturing your attention.
Ms. Light and Ms. Houdyshell must be grateful that Ms. Lavin chose to take on a new role rather than continue in ones she had already created. And I'm grateful, too, that her choices gave us the chance to see all of these variously rewarding performances.
Ms. Lavin's wonderful year is also a heartening reminder that the theater continues to afford fine opportunities to actresses long past their ingnue years. I can't wait to see what she does next. And I wouldn't be surprised if some of her peers are feeling the same way: inheriting a role from Ms. Lavin, challenging though it certainly must be, this year seems to have been something of a lucky charm.
Anyone care to join me in my unofficial kudos to Ms. Lavin, or append your thoughts on her remarkable year-and-change onstage?

        
Theater Talkback: Up Close, Feeling Very Personal
        
'Leap' Producers Keep the Faith by Underwriting Tony Awards Number
        
Theater Talkback: Against Ovation Inflation
        
Bret Michaels Settles Lawsuit After Injury at Tony Awards
        
Broadway Plays Avoiding Box-Office Doldrums

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (94%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (89%); FILM (77%); THEATER (72%); LITERATURE (60%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (57%); LITERARY CRITICISM (50%) Jayne Houdyshell; Judith Light; Linda Lavin; Theater; Theater Talkback; Tony Awards; Arianda, Nina; Bennett, Tracie; Channing, Stockard; Houdyshell, Jayne; Lavin, Linda; Light, Judith; Nixon, Cynthia; Tony Awards (Theater Awards); Kennedy, John F, Center for the Performing Arts; End of the Rainbow (Movie); Follies (Play); Other Desert Cities (Play); The Lyons (Play); Venus in Fur (Play); New York City

ORGANIZATION: Kennedy, John F, Center for the Performing Arts

PERSON: Arianda, Nina; Bennett, Tracie; Channing, Stockard; Houdyshell, Jayne; Lavin, Linda; Light, Judith; Nixon, Cynthia

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012



935 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Obama Touts 'Extraordinary' Accomplishments at California Fund-Raisers

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama spent his evening Wednesday trolling for campaign funds amid the cultural and high-tech glitterati of Northern California, arguing that his accomplishments had been "extraordinary" but warning that it may take even beyond a second term to complete them. 

 BODY:
ATHERTON, Calif. - President Obama spent his evening Wednesday trolling for campaign funds amid the cultural and high-tech glitterati of Northern California, arguing that his accomplishments had been "extraordinary" but warning that it may take even beyond a second term to complete them.
Following a fund-raiser in Denver, Mr. Obama flew here for a pair of receptions tapping perhaps the most resource-rich environment for Democrats, his second fundraising trip to California in the past few weeks. If his last visit focused on Hollywood with an event at the house of George Clooney, this one targeted the state's other elite, the entrepreneurs of Silicon Valley.
His first event of the evening was at the house of Douglas Goldman, an heir to the Levi Strauss fortune and founder of Certain Software, which develops event management software. Among those who joined him in the cathedral tent outside the house, known as Green Shutters, were Jan Brandt, vice chairwoman emeritus of AOL; Dennis Troper and Susan Wojcicki, top Google executives; and Tim Westergren, founder of Pandora Media. Tickets went for $35,800 each.
This being California, a few other celebrities came as well, including the actor Don Cheadle and the musicians Graham Nash and David Crosby, who planned to perform. Mr. Obama teased Mr. Cheadle about a basketball game that evidently went badly for the actor. As for two of the members of Crosby, Stills and Nash, he said, "It's not every day you get Rock and Roll Hall of Famers strumming their guitars for you."
Mr. Obama boasted of his record, saying he had turned around the economy, ended the Iraq war, set a path toward ending the Afghan war, tackled fuel efficiency standards and improved America's image around the world.
"The strides that we've made over the last three and a half years have been extraordinary," he said. "But we've still got a long way to go." He added: "We may not even finish it in five years. But I certainly need another five years to lock in what we're trying to accomplish."
He then headed to another event at the Fox Theater in Redwood City, where Ben Harper was scheduled to perform. About 1,100 supporters were expected for tickets starting at $250.

        
Obama Raises $11 Million in Hollywood
        
On Obama Turf, A Plea for Clinton Intervention
        
Audio: At Fund-Raiser, Obama Lets Loose Over Open Microphone
        
Marriage Ruling's Unpredictable Unions
        
Obama Raises Funds for Boxer, D.N.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); POP & ROCK (66%); MUSIC (66%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (66%); BASKETBALL (65%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (64%); IRAQ WAR (63%) barack obama; California; fund-raiser; Cheadle, Don; Crosby, David; Harper, Ben; Nash, Graham; Obama, Barack; Westergren, Tim; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Google Inc; Silicon Valley (Calif); Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Campaign Cash; Elections

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (56%); PANDORA MEDIA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); P (NYSE) (55%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE CLOONEY (58%) Cheadle, Don; Crosby, David; Harper, Ben; Nash, Graham; Obama, Barack; Westergren, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%) California; Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



936 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Who Cares if the Rupee Keeps Falling?

BYLINE: VIVEK DEHEJIA


HIGHLIGHT: There is nothing inherently good or bad about a currency going up or down, an economist argues. 

 BODY:
As the Indian rupee continues to fall in global markets, many respected analysts contend that the weakening currency signals the failure of the economic policies of the Indian government. In an op-ed column last weekend in The Business Standard, a leading business daily in India, Shankar Acharya said: "The real cause of the rupee's weakness is the relentless deterioration in our economic policies in recent years. A falling rupee is simply a symptom of the underlying disease: unsound economic policies." Mr. Acharya was part of the team that helped design the original economic reforms of 1991 and is a former chief economic adviser to the Indian government so his words should be taken seriously.
In a similar vein, in a recent op-ed column in The Wall Street Journal, Eswar Prasad wrote: "The falling Indian rupee, which Monday closed at an all-time low relative to the dollar, is a perfect metaphor for the free fall India's economy seems to be in." He went on to lay the blame squarely on the government's failure to pursue necessary economic reforms, contending that the "real message" of the depreciating currency is that "India's policy making has lost its way." Mr. Prasad is a professor at Cornell and a former senior official of the International Monetary Fund, and his voice too must be given heed.
With all due respect to these eminent economists and others in the media who have been opining in a similar fashion, the charge that the rupee's misfortune principally reflects the government's policy failures cannot be decisively established on the basis of the evidence at hand. If the Indian government was in the dock, and Anglo-American rules of evidence were applied, the verdict would have to be "not guilty," or, at best, "not proved," if Scottish rules were used instead.
The rupee's downward trajectory, if it were drawn on paper, could best be seen as a Rorschach test of analysts' hopes and expectations. There is no doubt that the current Indian government has failed to deliver on much-needed "second generation" reforms, as many observers, including myself here in India Ink, have noted. This fact - driven by the reality that good economics is often bad politics in a democracy, as I argued late last year in an op-ed column in the Business Standard - is surely regrettable.
It would indeed be a form of cosmic justice if those policy failures were now coming back to haunt Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his governing Indian National Congress Party in the form of an ever-cheapening rupee.
But economics isn't a morality play, nor is the rupee's decline a parable that may be used to goad recalcitrant politicians to get back on the high road of economic reform.
Any serious scholar of the economics of exchange rates will tell you that it would be folly to pin the cause of a particular currency's movement, up or down, uniquely, or even largely, on a single driving cause, whether a policy failure or anything else. There are simply too many suspects on the loose to blame the government alone.
So while Mr. Acharya and Mr. Prasad are right to point to burgeoning fiscal and current account deficits as likely proximate causes for the rupee's fall, an equally important cause, over which the government has no control, is rising commodity prices, principally of oil, on world markets. As a rule of thumb, currencies of oil importers fare poorly when the oil price is high or expected to rise, and the reverse is true for oil exporters.
For instance, Canada's exchange rate with the U.S. dollar, which has fluctuated wildly over the past decade between a low of about 66 cents and a high above parity, can largely be explained by the vicissitudes of the price of oil. It's therefore no surprise that India, which is heavily reliant on foreign oil, will see a drop in the value of its currency when oil and other commodity prices are high and expected to remain so.
A second and equally important factor beyond the Indian government's control is the precarious state of the European economies and the very real possibility of the breakup of the euro zone, with an almost certain default by Greece looming in the near future, and possible fiscal ruin in Spain and Italy likely not too far behind. In times of crisis - and this is certainly one for the global economy - there is a flight to a safe haven, which for the last half-century or more has been the U.S. dollar.
Thus, the Indian rupee's weakness, the flip side of which is the strength of the U.S. dollar, is as much about investors' desire to park their assets in dollars, and shun volatile emerging market currencies, while the global economy is in turmoil.
It's true that the rupee has fared worse than other important Asian currencies in recent months, which suggests that idiosyncratic, India-specific factors may be at work. But this argument misses out on the lessons of modern economic theory: the idea that a "strong" currency is a necessary correlate to a strong economy is an old discredited mercantilist idea, but with an unshakeable intuitive appeal to the layperson and a surprising resilience even among sophisticated economists. That's why there were "parity parties" in Canada when the dollar breached 1:1 with the U.S. dollar a few years ago.
Popular the idea may be, but it's still wrong. Rather, the "right" value of a currency is determined in foreign exchange markets, and there's nothing inherently good or bad about a currency going up or down, any more than it would be good or bad for the price of oil, or bananas, or anything else to go up or down in response to market conditions.
Sometimes, in their zeal to see a fact as evidence in support of their favored policies, analysts forget the most basic lesson of all that economics has to teach: often, it's as simple as supply and demand.

        
Inflation Rate Outpaces Predictions
        
Slump in Production Puts Pressure on Rupee
        
Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Tuesday
        
Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Wednesday
        
Newswallah: In the English-Language Press Today

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (86%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%) market conditions; Oil prices; rupee; Singh, Manmohan; Economic Conditions and Trends; Indian Rupee (Currency); Indian National Congress; International Monetary Fund; Canada; India; United States

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); INDIA INK (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%) Indian National Congress; International Monetary Fund

INDUSTRY: SIC2269 FINISHERS OF TEXTILES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (78%) Singh, Manmohan

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); ASIA (79%) Canada; India; United States

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2012



937 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: Live Blog: Goldman's Annual Meeting

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs's chief, Lloyd C. Blankfein, faced questions on some shareholder proposals, including one concerning the cost of the firm's lobbying efforts. 

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs has plenty of issues it may have to address on Thursday at its annual meeting in Jersey City.
Although the Wall Street firm has not been at the center of some recent controversies - the Facebook public offering or the $2 billion-plus trading loss at JPMorgan Chase - Goldman's chief, Lloyd C. Blankfein, will probably face questions on some shareholder proposals. 
One proposal would require the board to prepare a detailed report on the firm's lobbying efforts and how much it spends on them. 
 The regulatory changes aimed at Wall Street are also likely to be a hot topic. While Goldman's financial performance has been stronger than that of many of its rivals, the proposed rules could reshape the way it does business - and cut into profits. 
In addition, the managers of Sequoia Fund have announced plans to vote against a longtime director, James A. Johnson, and have urged other shareholders to do the same. The fund has criticized his background, saying that while he was chief executive of Fannie Mae, he lobbied Congress to relax mortgage underwriting standards and lower the capital standards put in place to protect taxpayers in the event of a downturn. 
Another Goldman director, M. Michele Burns, is expected to face scrutiny because she also sits on the board of Wal-Mart Stores. Wal-Mart has been the subject of a widening investigation into bribery accusations at the retailer's subsidiary in Mexico.
DealBook is on hand for the annual meeting, being held in a theater in a building that Goldman Sachs owns in Jersey City. The discussion begins at 9:30 A.M. 
11:43 A.M. | Meeting Adjourned
Goldman Sachs's 2011 executive compensation plan, which awarded Mr. Blankfein $12.4 million, won approval from more than 94 percent of shareholders.
All 10 board members at Goldman Sachs, were re-elected. Shareholders voted with the board on all proposals, including the one advocating more disclosure on lobbying. 
The meeting was fairly uneventful, especially compared with previous years, when Goldman has been attacked for sky-high compensation and putting its own interest ahead of clients.
11:23 A.M. | 'Issue of Morality'
A person representing shareholders connected to the City of Oakland is at the microphone. Oakland entered into an interest-rate swap a few years ago that is now costing the city roughly $4 million a year. The person said Goldman should rewrite the contract. "It is an issue of morality," he said.
Mr. Blankein disagreed, saying it was not in the interest of shareholders to tear it up a valid contract.
11:20 A.M. | Separating Chairman and Chief Executive Roles
Mr. Smith of Walden is at the microphone again, this time speaking about the idea of separating the role of chairman and chief executive. Mr. Blankfein currently wears both hats. Mr. Smith says both roles are big jobs and many corporate governance hawks feel it is good practice to separate the positions.
Mr. Schiro said the board recently moved to strengthen its corporate governance, tapping him as lead director. Goldman had a similar position in the past, but this new role is viewed as having more power. Mr. Schiro also said the board of directors often reviewed the wisdom of separating the roles of chairman and chief executive.
10:52 A.M. | Effects From Europe's Woes
A shareholder said he was concerned about the effect of the current instability in Europe on American companies. "Do you see a way the company can benefit from a possible collapse in the euro zone?" he asked. 
Mr. Blankfein said while there may be "short-term opportunities" from the instability, Goldman's best interest lied in in the long-term strength of European countries. 
10:42 A.M. | Not Ready to Outbid God
The Sisters of Charity of New York previously pushed Goldman for more disclosure on its structured products. This morning, one of the nuns from the group encouraged the firm to do even more.
Mr. Blankfein praised her work on this issue, and one of the nuns jokingly suggested that Goldman should hire her. 
"I don't think we can out bid your current boss," Mr. Blankfein replied, drawing laughter from shareholders. It was a subtle rebuttal to a widely criticized remark Mr. Blankfein once made saying that he did "God's work."
10:23 A.M. | Goldman and Lobbying
Mr. Smith of Walden is at the microphone again, speaking on the shareholder proposal on lobbying expenses. 
He praised a Goldman policy requiring the firm's board to review all trade association or membership dues valued at more than $30,000, while noting that the firm was not required to disclose its association memberships. This, he said, "is where the curtain of secrecy comes down." 
He said some firms gave to controversial groups, and Goldman shareholders should know where this money is going. He also said Goldman should provide more detail on the millions spent annually on lobbying. 
Another shareholder who works at a nonprofit organization that helps people living in low-income neighborhoods also spoke in favor of more disclosure on Goldman's lobbying. He said Goldman was seen as a "primary driver of the financial meltdown" and shareholders should know more about its lobbying against financial services reform. 
10:02 A.M. | Lessons From JPMorgan Chase's Trading Debalce
Mr. Smith of Walden also brought up the recent trading loss at JPMorgan Chase, asking whether Goldman had reviewed what might have gone wrong there. 
James Schiro, the current head of Goldman's audit committee, said Goldman viewed issues like losses at rival firms "very seriously." He said Goldman used the incident to review its own risk-control environment.
9:56 A.M. | Issue Raised Over Goldman's Auditor
Timothy Smith of Walden Asset Management, an investment firm, raised concerns about the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers as auditor, saying that the firm had been the subject of regulatory actions. 
A representative of PricewaterhouseCoopers responded to the question, saying that Mr. Smith's concerns had been discussed with Goldman's audit committee. 
9:53 A.M. | Questions on Board Member Michele Burns 
Several shareholders spoke, objecting to Goldman's decision to have Michele Burns lead the board's audit committee. One shareholder pointed out that she was on Wal-Mart's audit committee in 2005 and 2006, when the retailer is said to have bribed officials in Mexico. He said having her lead Goldman's audit committee "sends the wrong message to shareholders."
Mr. Blankfein defended her role, saying she has "the background and experience" to be a "wonderful" audit chief. Ms. Burns spoke, saying she and Wal-Mart were "fully committed" to investigating the allegations. 
9:36 A.M. | Annual Meeting Called to Order
Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, has called the meeting to order. More than 200 shareholders are in attendance. They were met by a handful of protesters outside, a change from recent years when throngs of demonstrators had descended on the meeting. Still, security is tight. A sign outside the meeting tells shareholders that "signs or other items that could disrupt meeting" are not welcome.
An earlier version of this live blog misstated the affiliation of Timothy Smith, a shareholder who spoke at the annual meeting. He is with Walden Asset Management, not Institutional Shareholder Services.

        
Once Remote, Goldman Sachs Puts on a Friendly Public Face
        
Did Blankfein Snub Paulson?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RETAILERS (65%); BRIBERY (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (57%) Goldman Sachs; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); WAL-MART STORES INC (68%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (68%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (68%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%) Blankfein, Lloyd C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



938 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Most Underwater Homeowners Still Paying Mortgages

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Nearly a third of homeowners with mortgages owe more than their houses are worth, but most are still making their monthly payments on time. 

 BODY:
Nearly a third of homeowners with mortgages, or roughly 16 million borrowers, remained underwater on their home loans in the first three months of this year, an analysisfrom the real estate site Zillow finds. Underwater borrowers owe more on their mortgages than the home is worth.
The percentage of underwater borrowers, 31.4, is up slightly from 31.1 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, according to Zillow's "negative equity report," released Thursday.
Zillow's report looks at current outstanding loan balances for owner-occupied homes, and compares them with those homes' estimated values. Loan data are provided by TransUnion.
Still, just because a homeowner is underwater does not necessarily mean that foreclosure is imminent. Nine out of 10 are continuing to make their loan payments on time, the report said, with just 10 percent more than 90 days delinquent.
And not all homeowners with negative equity are deeply underwater. About 40 percent owe 1 to 20 percent more than their home is worth, which is "fairly modest" negative equity, said Stan Humphries, Zillow's chief economist. About 15 percent of borrowers -- or about 2.4 million -- owe more than double what the property is worth.
Mr. Humphries said it was disappointing to see negative equity levels remain so high because they remain a drag on the housing market and the economy, hampering borrowers' ability to sell their homes and move. But for many, the losses are so far on paper only. As home values slowly increase, he said, and those borrowers continue to pay down their principal, they will "surface" again.
"Negative equity does not necessarily equal foreclosure," he said, adding that some homeowners may not even know they are underwater, if they aren't trying to sell their home and can afford their monthly payment. "Most people are holding in place and paying their mortgages."
The magnitude of the problem varies by market. In Las Vegas, for instance, more than a quarter of all homeowners with mortgages owe more than double what their home is worth.
On a state level, Nevada has the highest percentage of homeowners with negative equity, with 67 percent underwater, Zillow found. Arizona (with 52 percent), Georgia (47 percent), Florida (46 percent) and Michigan (42 percent) also have high percentages of underwater homeowners.
Zillow has produced an interactive map to show the proportion of underwater homes in various markets.
Are you underwater on your mortgage, but still making payments? Do you expect your property's value to recover? And how long do you think that will take?

        
More Families Report Having No Savings at All
        
An Attempt to Clear Up Mortgage Application Confusion
        
New Rules Proposed for Mortgage Servicers
        
Borrowers, Beware of Mortgage Relief Fraud
        
Financial Watchdog Is Answering Questions Online

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (60%) Mortgages; Humphries, Stan; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Zillow.com

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Zillow.com

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Humphries, Stan

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (67%) NEVADA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



939 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Euro-Zone Inflation Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Volvo adds an external air bag to its Europe-only V40 hatchback. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Volvo will equip its V40 hatchback with an external air bag intended to minimize injuries to pedestrians in a collision, the Swedish automaker announced Wednesday. The bag deploys fore of the windshield and behind the hood, minimizing the struck pedestrian's risk of making contact with the windshield or lower section of the car's A-pillars. The system is active between 12-31 miles per hour. Though the V40 is not intended for the American market, the air-bag system is expected to be integrated into other Volvos in coming years. (Volvo)
BMW announced Wednesday the promotion of Karim Habib, the former lead exterior designer for the BMW brand, to the position of head of BMW design. Mr. Habib will report directly to Adrian van Hooydonk, the design director for BMW Group. Mr. Habib is credited with the 2007 Concept CS, which presaged the current shape of the 7 Series and the 6 Series Gran Coupe. (BMW Group)
 A judge in Seminole County, Fla., ruled this week that flashing headlights to warn oncoming traffic of a speed trap was behavior protected under the First Amendment. The decision was prompted by a case in which a driver from Lake Mary, Fla., was ticketed last August for flashing his lights to communicate with other drivers. The driver later lodged a civil suit against the Seminole County Sheriff's Office. (The Orlando Sentinel, via Autoblog)
 Through its online configurator, Ford released preliminary pricing for the 2013 Fusion sedan, unveiled at the Detroit auto show in January. Presuming the listed prices were finalized, the base 2.5-liter model would cost $23,290, inclusive of $795 delivery charge. The same car with the SE equipment package would start at $25,290; the EcoBoost 1.6-liter and 2-liter engines would also be available at this trim level at additional cost. The SE Hybrid, with standard lithium-ion battery pack and continuously variable transmission, would begin at $28,790. The range-topping Titanium edition, with the standard 2-liter EcoBoost engine, would be priced from $31,790. Finalized pricing is expected to be announced in coming weeks. (Ford)

        
Wheelies: The X-Factor Edition
        
Volvo Recalls 17,000 Models for Potential Flaw in Air-Bag Deployment System
        
BMW Working on Collision Prevention System
        
Controversial BMW Designer Quits
        
In Geneva, the Sun Shines Through

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (76%); EURO ZONE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); SHERIFFS (71%); JUDGES (67%); LITIGATION (67%) Adrian van Hooydonk; air bags; bmw; Ford Fusion; V40; volvo; Automobiles; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Ford Motor Company; Volvo Car Corp; Ford Motor Company|F|NYSE; Design; Industry News; New Cars; safety

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (96%); AB VOLVO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Ford Motor Company; Volvo Car Corp

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (96%); BMW (BIT) (96%); VOLV.B (STO) (91%); VOLV.A (STO) (91%) Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



940 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Dimon and the Fed's Legitimacy

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: It's time for Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase to step down from the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
There are two diametrically opposed views of how the largest financial companies in our economy operate. On the one hand are views like those of Charles Ferguson, director of the Academy Award-winning documentary "Inside Job" and author of the new book, "Predator Nation." Mr. Ferguson takes the view that greed and immorality now prevail to an excessive degree at the heart of Wall Street. 
Academics and other experts have become corrupted, the responsible regulators have been intellectually captured, and law enforcement officials refuse to act - despite the accumulation of evidence before their eyes. 
"Inside Job" was gripping and emotional; "Predator Nation" contains many more specific details and evidence, as an excerpt dealing with academics (one Republican and one Democrat) makes clear. 
The second view is that the people in charge of large banks and bank holding companies have done nothing wrong. To see this view in action, look no further than this week's debate about whether Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, should resign from the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

The New York Fed oversees his organization, including assessing whether it is taking dangerous risks, so there are reasonable questions about whether this creates a potential conflict of interest. 
A balanced account of this debate appeared in American Banker, which kindly agreed to bring the entire article out from behind its paywall. The strongest statement from the pro-Dimon corner comes from Ernest Patrikis, a partner with White & Case and former general counsel of the New York Federal Reserve:
I don't see Jamie Dimon's conflict of interest. What's the conflict? He's expected to represent the banks' view, the lenders' view.
Yet even people who are generally sympathetic to banks feel that there is a perception problem with Mr. Dimon's position. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner said exactly that to the "PBS NewsHour" last week.
Kenneth Guenther, the former head of the Independent Community Bankers of America, told American Banker:
I do think there is a public perception problem when the head of the largest bank gets into a massive highly publicized trading loss, which he articulately condemns, when he's tied to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and the president of the Federal Reserve Bank is vice chair of the Federal Open Market Committee. There is a perception problem. I don't think there's any way around it.
What exactly is a conflict of interest? Narrowly defined, an actual conflict of interest would involve using public office for personal financial gain - and would be a matter for criminal prosecution. 
There is only one case that I am aware of in which a director of the New York Fed went to prison for such a violation - Robert A. Rough was indicted in December 1988 on charges that he leaked sensitive interest rate information to a brokerage firm. He was sentenced to six months in prison.
More broadly, however, in modern America we use the term "conflict of interest" when we believe someone may be promoting private interests while acting in a public role.
Allowing big bankers to become too influential is an important part of what Mr. Ferguson writes about. If you don't understand the channels through which influence actually works in the United States today, you need to see "Inside Job," which touched a nerve and won an Oscar precisely because it is profoundly undemocratic when powerful people are able to behave in this way. 
Elizabeth Warren, a Democratic candidate for the Senate in Massachusetts, said Mr. Dimon should resign from the board of the New York Fed. The recent spectacular trading losses at his company require a full investigation, which should include an examination of how the supervision process broke down. How can this be anything other than awkward for the New York Fed while Mr. Dimon - hardly known as a shrinking violet - sits on its board?
Senator Bernie Sanders, a Vermont Independent, would go further, proposing legislation that would remove any bankers from the boards of Federal Reserve banks. For more background, you may want to consult Page 65 and other parts of a report from the Government Accountability Office, which deal with potential conflicts of interest in the Federal Reserve System, or at least read Senator Sanders's summary of the report.
To be clear, directors of the New York Fed are in principle kept away from bank supervision matters - a point that was codified in December 2010, after passage of the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation. 
Under the current bylaws, directors are not involved in appointing, monitoring or compensating the head of supervision, although they have input into the selection and remuneration of the head of research (an important position, as this person helps to shape the Fed's view on bank capital and all technical matters relative to risk management), and they oversee other management issues. Bill Dudley, the president of the New York Fed, interacts with the board at least several times a month, as you can see from his schedule.
Mr. Dudley, a former Goldman Sachs executive, was originally appointed president of the New York Fed by a board that included Mr. Dimon as a voting member. The Dodd-Frank legislation stripped so-called Class A directors, of which Mr. Dimon is one, from voting on such appointments. Subsequently, Mr. Dudley was reappointed by the Class B and Class C directors.
Mr. Dimon has also been an outspoken opponent of financial reform of late - including the Volcker Rule (on proprietary trading) and attempts to strengthen capital requirements. He is an intensely political figure, despite the fact that an important footnote in the Board of Governors' policy on political activity by Reserve Bank directors says: 
In all instances, directors should avoid any political activity that would publicly identify the director as being associated with the Federal Reserve System or would embarrass the System or raise questions about the independence of the director or the ability to perform Federal Reserve duties.
Directors are allowed to lobby and engage in other specific activities. The issue is whether these actions undermine the effectiveness of the New York Fed.
There is recent precedent for New York Fed board members' resigning when there is a perceived conflict of interest - and when the legitimacy of the Federal Reserve System would undoubtedly have been undermined if they had refused to resign. 
Richard Fuld, the chief executive of Lehman Brothers, resigned on Sept. 11, 2008; his firm's last day of business was Sept. 12, and it folded on Sept. 15, 2008 - presumably because the New York Fed was at the center of intense discussions about who should suffer what kind of losses or get rescued. Did he resign of his own volition or was he encouraged to resign?
Stephen Friedman, a former chairman of Goldman Sachs who remains on its board, resigned in early 2009 when it became clear that he had bought Goldman stock after Goldman became a bank and therefore fell under the supervision of the New York Fed. 
Mr. Friedman was chairman of the New York Fed at that time. (To be clear, Mr. Friedman was not involved in any of the decisions that saved Goldman in fall 2008, and I am not accusing him of using his public position for personal financial gain.)
For those of you keeping score, Mr. Fuld was a Class B director and Mr. Friedman was a Class C director.
If you think Mr. Dimon should resign from the New York Fed, you can express your opinion by signing an online petition, which I drafted. (More background on why he should resign can be found in my blog post on Baseline Scenario.) 
If Mr. Dimon refuses to resign - as seems likely - he can removed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (not by his fellow directors at the New York Fed). The petition is therefore addressed to the Board of Governors.
There is an undeniable perception problem. It is damaging the legitimacy of the Federal Reserve. As Treasury Secretary Geithner implied, this must be "addressed" - a great Washington euphemism - by Mr. Dimon leaving the board of the New York Fed.

        
Investigating JPMorgan Chase
        
Is the New York Fed Making a Big Mistake?
        
Opening Up the Fed
        
Progress on Letting Big Banks Fail
        
The Banking Emperor Has No Clothes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); INDICTMENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); WRITERS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); COMMUNITY BANKS (68%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); DEREGULATION (63%) banking; banking regulation; Conflicts of Interest (Des);; Daily Economist; Federal Reserve; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; financial crisis; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase; Lehman Brothers; lobbying; risk; risk management; Simon Johnson; Dimon, James; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (63%); WHITE & CASE LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank of New York; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (92%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%) Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



941 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: For Voters, It's the Job-Growth Trend That Counts

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Presidential elections turn more closely on whether job creation is accelerating or decelerating than on the unemployment number itself. This week's tracker continues to suggest that the economy should be a modest help to President Obama. 

 BODY:
When Al Gore went before voters in November 2000, as a sitting vice president promising to continue President Bill Clinton's economic policies, the economy was in excellent shape. The unemployment rate had fallen to only 3.9 percent, and middle-class incomes were growing at their fastest clip in a generation.
 Yet over the course of the 2000 campaign, the economy also slowed markedly. Monthly job growth at the start of the year was almost 300,000; by November, it was only about 100,000. If Mr. Gore had the benefit of an economy functioning at a very high , he did not have the benefit of one growing at a rapid . 
 The outcome of the 2000 election was exceedingly close -- roughly as close as the modest pace of job creation suggested it should have been, based on historical patterns, and far closer than the high level of economic activity might have suggested.
 Four years later, when President George W. Bush was running for re-election, the economy was in far worse shape than it had been in 2000. The unemployment ratewas roughly 5.5 percent in late 2004 and would have been higher if so many people hadn't dropped out of the labor force, neither working nor looking for work.
 But the economy was also beginning to improve and to escape the jobless recovery of 2002 and 2003. Even if the level of economic activity in 2004 was vastly different from the level in 2000, the rate of growth in the two years was quite similar.

In the 12 months ending in November 2000, according to the Labor Department's survey of employers, nationwide employment grew by 1.6 percent. In the 12 months ending in November 2004, it grew by an identical 1.6 percent. In the months immediately before the two elections, job growth was actually stronger in 2004 than 2000, helping Mr. Bush to win re-election narrowly.
If you looked only at how strong the economy was in 2000 and 2004, the elections would surprise you. If you looked at growth rate, however, the outcomes look unsurprising.
Nothing appears to have a bigger influence on presidential elections than the pace of economic growth in the year leading up to the election. Keep that in mind when you hear simple comparisons about no president having won re-election when the unemployment rate was above a certain level. Ronald Reagan easily won re-election with the rate above 7 percent. Mr. Gore lost with the rate below 4 percent.
As we have written before, the rate of growth this year seems to be pointing to a close election. The Times's weekly tracker of job growth, based on forecasts from Moody's Analytics, is largely unchanged this week. The last seven days of economic data have contained few big surprises. Average job growth in the six months before Election Day is projected to be 184,000 -- up from 183,000 a week ago -- which suggests the economy should be a modest help to President Obama.
History indicates that monthly job growth of 100,000 to 175,000 would lead to a very tight race this year, with anything much slower making Mitt Romney the favorite and anything much faster making Mr. Obama the favorite.
Moody's Analytics has posted the details of its forecast on its Web site. Nate Silver described the historical patterns in more detail in a recent post for the FiveThirtyEight blog. 

        
A Modestly Strong Batch of New Data
        
Jobs and the Election: A Weekly Tracker
        
What Would Improve Job Prospects for Young Workers?
        
Unemployment, Beyond the Rate
        
Getting Better, Slowly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%) 2012 election; jobs; Moody's; presidential election; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Jobs and the Election

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



942 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: India's Faltering Economy Could Get Worse

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: A bearish economist's plea to Sonia Gandhi to allow economic reforms. 

 BODY:
Several recent indicators suggest his bearishness may not have been misplaced. In November of 2011 Mr. Malik warned that India's currency could fall to 57 rupees to the United States dollar (at the time it was trading at about 52 rupees to the dollar) - on Thursday afternoon, the rupee was trading dangerously close, at 56.2 to the dollar. In December of 2011, he cut India's economic growth forecast for the fiscal year that began April 1, 2012 to 6.3 percent, a forecast that has just recently been echoed by other economists. 
Q.
What are the options available to the central government and the Reserve Bank of India to slow the rupee's free fall?
A.
The ball is very much in the government's court and with Congress President Sonia Gandhi. The R.B.I. is doing whatever it can, and is taking a sensible approach. The last thing it should do is effect a particular level [for the currency] and then defend it at the cost of losing a large amount of foreign reserves. There could be greater pressure in the future on the currency from heightened global aversion, so it would be suicidal to squander reserves. 
In all of this, the R.B.I. cannot be the savior. No central bank can be the savior. The Indian government creates the mess and the R.B.I. is the vacuum cleaner, but even a vacuum cleaner can't do a good job in a garbage dump.
The first thing the government needs to do is wake up and acknowledge there is a problem. Just saying that there are external problems, when almost all of India's problems are home grown, is not enough. The external issues amplify the domestic imbalances but government's policies in recent years have significantly worsened those imbalances. 
There are many Band-Aid fixes that can be done, but relevant long-lasting benefits require significant hikes in fuel prices to cut subsidies, getting the fiscal and current account deficits under control, improving the local investment climate, squeezing out inflation, attracting foreign direct investment and moving forward with reforms.
Growth is going to be trapped around the 6 percent mark and downside could still be there - it could clearly be lower if nothing is done by the government. 
There are no painless options. The can has been kicked down the road so often and for so long, there will be unpopular moves but they have to be undertaken.
Q.
Is Wednesday's steep petrol price hike a sign the government has finally woken up and is ready to make the reforms needed?
A.
It is a start but it only shows a government trying to marginally make up the distance it has fallen behind. It is still wedded to doing the least possible needed to avoid a major systematic problem rather than being pragmatic enough to undertake reforms so that India can do much better. It is merely doing enough for the economy to survive, not thrive.
Q.
What's the next move the government should make after the fuel price hike?
A.
We have to see significant increases in diesel and cooking gas prices. The prices of other things, like electricity and coal, have to be closer to market-clearing levels. 
The government needs to jump-start investment and create a more enabling environment for growth. 
What makes the Indian situation so very unique is that it is not as if the problems are not known or the solutions; it is the implementation that doesn't happen because of political myopia. 
The current dual political structure doesn't work. It is ironic that the world's largest democracy has a selected, not popularly elected Prime Minister. The people who do understand economics don't have the political strength to make decisions, those who have political power either don't understand economics or are too fixated on populism. 
Q.
What does a weak rupee actually mean? If it doesn't have a big impact on most Indian citizens, why should politicians address it?
A.
A weak rupee is a symptom of the underlying problem, it is not the problem; it is the messenger rather than the message. It is the outcome of chronically high inflation, policy incoherence and self-inflicted injuries. 
Consumer price inflation is over 10 percent, the rupee is in free fall, growth has been crippled and reforms have become a figment of people's imagination. 
The more since the end of July 2011 than it did during the 1991 devaluation. The significant depreciation now will have a much smaller positive impact than in 1991 because it is not accompanied by a reform agenda. In 1991, the Indian government didn't have a choice; the International Monetary Fund forced it to put in path breaking reforms.
Q.
What is our worst case scenario? How low could the rupee go?
A.
We don't know. No one can really forecast currencies very accurately, in the near term and given global uncertainty.
The rupee could easily fall between 57 and 60 to the dollar depending on how the European Union situation plays out. We just have to see what the government ends up doing. 
Q.
You must speak with government and political advisers. Do you get the sense the central government appreciates the necessity of doing something now?
A.
There seems to be a disconnect. The people who understand the gravity of the situation and know what needs to be done don't have the political capital to push through things. A lot of the relevant people get it; one doesn't need to be a whiz kid in economics to appreciate what India is going through.
Q.
You mentioned Sonia Gandhi earlier - is she the major roadblock standing in the way of the economic reforms that need to happen?
A.
It is understandable that she has a political agenda. But strong and well-balanced economic growth will offer more, not less, opportunities for her well-intentioned redistributive agenda. Not undertaking reforms that will boost growth needed to meet the rising aspirations is a one-way path for the government to be out of a job. 
I don't think people are opposed to helping the poor. But the popularity of hand-outs needs to change. Growth is the best answer to poverty. 
We require political will to do something. The more the government waits, the stronger and more unpopular these corrective measures will have to be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (68%); PRICE INCREASES (61%) Gandhi, Sonia; Economic Conditions and Trends; Indian Rupee (Currency); International Trade and World Market; European Union; Indian National Congress; International Monetary Fund; Reserve Bank of India; India

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF INDIA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) European Union; Indian National Congress; International Monetary Fund; Reserve Bank of India

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (90%) Gandhi, Sonia

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



943 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Shhh, Don't Mention Immigration

BYLINE: LAWRENCE DOWNES


HIGHLIGHT: At the Latino Coalition's annual economic summit, Mitt Romney avoided the elephant in the room. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney went to Washington on Wednesday and gave a big speech to a business group called the Latino Coalition. The subject was education.
Do you think he mentioned one of the most high-profile education topics among Latinos, one that he would be sure to confront if elected president - the Dream Act, a bill that would grant legal status to children of illegal immigrants who attend college?
No. It didn't come up. He said not a word, in fact, about immigration, though he did say the school system's failure to help minority students is "the civil-rights issue of our era."

I'd say is still the civil-rights issue of our era. And one reason Mr. Romney is so out of favor with so many Latino voters is his embrace of an immigration radicalism that drags civil rights back to the Jim Crow era - with state and local laws promoting racial profiling, harassment and abuse of Latinos.
Since the primaries, Mr. Romney has staked out immigration positions far out on what used to be the right-wing fringe. He's stuck in the policy equivalent of the Arizona desert, a state he has praised for its unconstitutional hijacking of federal immigration enforcement, and whose polarizing demagogues and co-conspirators (like Sheriff Joe Arpaio and Kris Kobach) he has wooed and pursued.
Talk is cheap for Mr. Romney, who likes to slip into new positions whenever old ones become ill-fitting or unpleasant. But in this campaign, in which he has been consistently harsher on immigration than any of his opponents, he seems to have concluded that it's better to shut up about it and hope Latinos don't notice.
In this new Spanish-language Romney ad, the silence is deafening, the omission glaring.

        
The Arizona Show
        
Kobach and Romney
        
Opinion Report: Supreme Health
        
The Cost of a Bloody Florida Battle
        
Alabama Doubles Down

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); RACE & RACISM (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (74%); RACIAL PROFILING (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%) Dream Act; Immigration; Mitt Romney; Romney, Mitt; Illegal Immigrants

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



944 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Romney Agree: Cut Americans' Already Low Taxes

BYLINE: CHRYSTIA FREELAND


HIGHLIGHT: Despite having some of the lowest tax rates in the developed world, Americans have reached a political consensus that they should pay even less. 

 BODY:
Matthew Yglesias, Slate's economics correspondent, makes a smart point in a post on his blog this week, arguing that "maybe rich people don't like Obama because he wants to raise their taxes substantially." 
Yglesias is right to contend that the much-discussed animosity towards the president on Wall Street and in other enclaves of the super-rich may be less mysterious than the column inches devoted to the issue suggest - it could be no more complicated than simple self-interest.
But the data Yglesias wields to make his point also show something more surprising: when it comes to 99 percent of the population, Barack Obama is closer to the Grover Norquist creed of tax cutting than you might think. 
"Relative to the pre-Bush tax rates, Obama will cut taxes not just for the bottom twenty percent or the bottom fifty percent or the bottom eighty percent but for ," writes Yglesias (emphasis his). 
Mitt Romney, it is worth noting, goes further, promising a 20 percent income tax cut for everybody.
As I point out in this week's Page Two column, what's worth noting about this national political consensus about tax cuts for at least 99 percent of Americans is that, by historical and international standards, U.S. taxes are already pretty low. 
So, why are Americans so convinced their taxes should fall - or at the very least shouldn't rise? Maybe the left needs to emulate the right and make a more forceful political - and moral - case for the policies it believes in.

        
What's the Matter With Kansas? ... What's the Matter With Wall St.?
        
Osama Bin Laden Joins the U.S. Presidential Race
        
Obama Will Need Young Voters to Keep His Job, Even if They Don't Have One
        
Americans, the Tax Man Cometh
        
Inside Republican Primary Zaniness, Actual Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); INCOME TAX (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (59%) 2012 U.S. Presidential Election; Tax rates; Taxation; Federal Taxes (US); National Debt (US); Page Two

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



945 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Tremors of Anxiety Over Arctic Drilling

BYLINE: CLIFFORD KRAUSS


HIGHLIGHT: Local Inupiat worry about the possibility of an oil spill, harm to whales and a change in their way of life. 

 BODY:
As John Broder and I write in Thursday's Times, the Obama administration is backing Shell's audacious efforts to open Alaska's Arctic waters to oil drilling. The plan offers the promise of greater national energy security, the thinking goes, and economic benefits for Alaskans. 
But the Inupiat Eskimos who live closest to the drilling on the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas, who are the most likely to benefit economically, are also most likely to suffer if there is an oil spill. 
 Villagers in windswept Barrow fear that Shell's seismic work and drilling will disturb the bowhead whale migration, forcing whales away from their food and whalers dangerously far offshore to catch them. Worse yet, they say, a spill could poison the whales. 
 But it is more than the whales they fear for; it's their very way of life.

 The bowhead whale is at the center of the culture for Inupiat Eskimos. Everyone remembers the first time their parents brought them out on the ice to join the community to butcher - the word is "harvest" here - the killed whales for all to eat. Children are taught not to argue or raise their voices and that they need to work together to prepare for future responsibilities: whaling crews hunt silently so not to spook the whales.
 "The bowhead whale and the materials it provides are the meat of my life," said Vernon Rexford, an artist who carves on moose antlers and etches various animal figures on dried baleens, the plates that filter food in the mouths of whales. "They talk about the jobs, the promises of education and support for the economy, but that is counterfeit compared to the dangers of an oil spill."
Among those most concerned is Edward Itta, a former mayor of the North Slope Borough who negotiated and won several concessions from Shell. He now has second thoughts. He noted that the latest Shell drilling plan is in some ways even bigger than the original one that he sued to stop as mayor - up to 10 wells drilled over two years in two seas, not one.
"I am disappointed," Mr. Itta said in an interview. "Man, this is too much, too soon, too fast." But more than anything else, he seemed resigned: he feels he did the best he could:
"We know the history of major multinational corporations, and I am not saying they rape and pillage the environment, but they have to make a profit," he said. "Some are better than others. That's history."
 Other community leaders say the risks are worth it. "There is only one industry here," said Richard Glenn, a senior executive of the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, which already has oil service contracts with Shell. "Life before oil meant raw sewage in your front yard -- if you were lucky, in 55-gallon drums. If you come to the conclusion that our communities depend on sustained exploration and production of oil, then you follow it. We need to drill."
But as whaling crews began cutting trails through the offshore ice with pick axes this spring for the seasonal whale hunt, there was plenty of dissent tinged by fear. 
"Those oil guys can think whatever they want, but we know how harsh this ocean is," said Roy Nageak, an aging whaling captain, as he struggled to climb a high ice ridge four miles offshore to find the smoothest path to cut his trail. "They don't know what they are getting into." 

        
Oil Executives Push Expanded U.S. Drilling
        
BP to Drill Again in the Gulf of Mexico
        
Oil Rush in Gray Whales' Last Redoubt
        
A Voice From the Next Offshore Oil Frontier
        
On Our Radar: The White House and Climate Change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (92%); OIL SPILLS (90%); WHALING (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); MAYORS (85%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); MAMMALS (75%); HISTORY (73%); CHILDREN (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) Eskimos; Inupiat; offshore drilling; oil; shell; Whales; Accidents and Safety; Ice; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Whales and Whaling; Royal Dutch Shell Plc; Alaska; Arctic Regions; Royal Dutch Shell Plc|RDS.A|NYSE; Business; Oil; Politics and Policy

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (84%); ARCTIC SLOPE REGIONAL CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Dutch Shell Plc

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (84%); RDSA (AMS) (84%); RDS.B (NYSE) (84%); RDS.A (NYSE) (84%) Royal Dutch Shell Plc; RDS.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); ARCTIC OCEAN (92%) ARCTIC (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Alaska; Arctic Regions

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



946 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Plus or Minus

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
President Obama's attacks on Mitt Romney's career at Bain Capital have divided Democrats, with some fearing that the president is undermining the political and policy relationship Democrats have nurtured over decades with the financial services industry, Nicholas Confessore writes. Wall Street donors are seen as increasingly turning from Democrats to give to Republican candidates.
Mr. Romney tackled the issue of education on Wednesday, calling it "the civil rights issue of our era" and endorsing school choice in a speech to a group of Hispanic leaders, who represent a critical constituency to whom the issue is important.
The Department of Homeland Security's inspector general is investigating the Secret Service after the embarrassing prostitution scandal that erupted last month in Colombia, Jonathan Weisman reports. Appearing before a Senate committee on Wednesday, the director of the Secret Service told skeptical lawmakers that the Colombia episode was isolated and was not indicative of an undisciplined culture within the service.
President Obama outlined his vision for a leaner yet stronger military on Wednesday before a graduating class of Air Force cadets. Peter Baker writes that Mr. Obama's proposed strategy relies more on economic and diplomatic power and less on ground troops in the fight against terrorism. On Thursday, Mr. Obama will swing through Iowa for the second time in recent weeks to promote his energy policies.
The verdict in former Senator John Edwards's federal corruption trial could come down to how jurors apply the judge's interpretation of federal campaign law, John Schwartz writes.
 A photo of Mr. Obama bending to let a black boy touch his hair has been a mainstay among pictures in the Oval Office. Jackie Calmes explains the story behind the photo and its political significance for the president.
Around the Web:
The Washington Postlooks at how Senator Rob Portman of Ohio is handling the speculation that he is on Mr. Romney's short list of running mates.
Happening in Washington:
Economic reports scheduled to be released this morning include durable goods for April and weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m., followed by weekly mortgage rates at 10.
When the Senate convenes at 9:30 a.m., lawmakers are expected to pass food safety legislation before moving on to a bill to prevent a spike in student loan interest rates.
At 10:35 a.m., Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton is scheduled to give remarks as the State Department releases its human rights report for 2011.
At 3 p.m., Arlington National Cemetery will honor fallen soldiers during its annual pre-Memorial Day "Flags-In" ceremony, in which American flags are placed by each grave marker.

        
The Early Word: Plan B
        
The Early Word: A Subtler Message
        
The Early Word: Uncharted Territory
        
The Weekend Word: Pet Projects
        
The Early Word: Deep Pockets, Political Dreams

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ARMED FORCES (87%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); ELECTION LAW (76%); CORRUPTION (74%); SCANDALS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); FOOD SAFETY (69%); AIR FORCES (69%); SEX SCANDALS (69%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (56%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); STUDENT LOANS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); ROB PORTMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



947 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Unemployment Rate Dilemma

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney has struggled with how much to promise when it comes to the jobless rate. Pledge too much improvement and he looks na&#239;ve; predict too little change and he undercuts his argument for replacing President Obama. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney is promising to turn the economy around if he is elected president. And there may be no more visceral measure of whether he ultimately keeps that promise than the nation's unemployment rate.
But in recent weeks, Mr. Romney has struggled with how much to promise when it comes to the famous jobless figure. Pledge too much improvement and he looks nave; predict too little change and he undercuts his argument for replacing President Obama.
On Wednesday, Mr. Romney revived that political dilemma for himself by once again saying in an interview that unemployment will be at 6 percent by the end of 2016 - the conclusion of his first term in the Oval Office. 
"I can tell you, after a period of four years, by virtue of the policies we'd put in place, we'd get the unemployment rate down to 6 percent - perhaps a little lower," Mr. Romney told Time Magazine on Wednesday. He first made that pledge in a jobs plan he unveiled last year.
The promise is designed to offer a stark contrast with Mr. Obama, who currently presides over an economy with an 8.1 percent unemployment rate - 26 percent higher than the rate Mr. Romney said he could achieve. In a speech in Michigan this month, he said the country's current path "ends with us becoming like much of Europe with chronic high unemployment."
But in fact, economists who predict the pace of employment growth - including the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Mr. Obama's budget officials and private economists - have already said they believe unemployment is on track to be about 6 percent by the end of 2016.
The baseline forecast by the economic firm IHS Global Strategies is for the unemployment rate to hit 6 percent by the fourth quarter of 2016, according to the firm's chief economist, Nigel Gault. Mr. Obama's budget office predicted that unemployment would decline to 6.1 percent by 2016. And the budget office projections show a 6 percent unemployment rate by the end of 2016.
Figures from the Philadelphia Federal Reserve show a similar trajectory assuming that monthly job growth would be around 175,000 to 185,000 - about where it's been for the past year or so under Mr. Obama's stewardship.
For Mr. Romney, the challenge is a communications and persuasion one. In order to persuade voters to pick him over Mr. Obama, he must demonstrate that he would make their personal situations markedly better.
That argument loses power if his promise is the same as the one that Mr. Obama makes.
Mr. Romney's campaign will no doubt argue that Mr. Obama's policies will not achieve that goal, or will do so more slowly than he would. Mr. Romney often argues that the policies put in place by Mr. Obama - including stimulus spending and passage of health care and financial reform legislation - has slowed the country's recovery.
But from a political point of view, the president has the current unemployment trajectory on his side. The unemployment rate has come down from a high of 10.1 percent to just over 8 percent. That will make it easier for Mr. Obama's team to argue that the country is headed in the right direction.
Faced with that improvement, Mr. Romney has at times suggested that electing him would mean a dramatic improvement in unemployment over what Mr. Obama is promising to achieve.
At the beginning of May, when the government announced relatively slow job growth in April, Mr. Romney slammed the president, saying "anything near 8 percent or over 4 percent is not cause for celebration."
The idea of reaching a 4 percent unemployment rate any time soon was widely panned by economists, who noted that it would take more than 500,000 jobs a month to reach that goal by the end of Mr. Romney's term. That level of job growth has only happened a few times in the last 50 years.
Mr. Romney and the campaign did not back away from the 4 percent figure that day. But neither has he - or his campaign - repeated it since then. On Wednesday, he ignored the fact that by his earlier measure, a 6 percent unemployment rate would not be "cause for celebration."
Either way, by making predictions, Mr. Romney is walking into the same trap that Mr. Obama's economic advisers stumbled into at the beginning of the president's term. Mr. Romney likes to remind audiences that top White House officials in 2009 promised that passage of the stimulus plan would keep unemployment below 8 percent.
"You remember three years ago, the newly elected president said 'Let me borrow $787 billion, I'll keep unemployment below 8 percent.' It hasn't been below since," Mr. Romney said in Florida earlier this year. "This president has failed the American people."
Now, Mr. Romney is on the record with his own promises. The year 2016 may seem like an eternity away. And it won't matter anyway if Mr. Romney doesn't win the election.
But if he replaces Mr. Obama in the White House, Mr. Romney may find that keeping his promises are just as tricky.

        
Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals
        
Primary Race Moves to Economically Strapped States
        
Why Bain Attacks Could Stick to Romney
        
Barbour Slams Obama on Economy and Energy
        
10 Questions for Gene Sperling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (96%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); CAUCUSES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%) 2012; economy; jobs; mitt romney; president obama; Unemployment; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



948 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Apologetic After Raising Issue of Obama's Birthplace

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Representative Mike Coffman of Colorado apologized at length on Wednesday for reviving unsubstantiated claims that President Obama was not born in the United States. 

 BODY:
Representative Mike Coffman of Colorado apologized at length on Wednesday for reviving unsubstantiated claims that President Obama was not born in the United States.
Although Mr. Coffman had issued a statement on May 16 expressing regret for remarks he said were misstatements, he faced continued pressure to explain why he told donors at a May 12 campaign fund-raiser that he didn't know whether Mr. Obama was born in the United States and that the president was "not an American."
In a video posted Tuesday by the NBC affiliate in Denver, Mr. Coffman declined to clarify his comments several times when pressed to do so by a reporter, saying repeatedly, "I stand by my statement. I misspoke, and I apologize."
He relented in an opinion piece published Wednesday on The Denver Post Web site, where he wrote that his remarks were "boneheaded and inappropriate."
"I have always viewed this matter as not only baseless, but as a distraction from the real issues facing our country. I believe that today," he wrote. 
Mr. Coffman also backed away from the part of his initial statement in which he maintained doubts about Mr. Obama's view of America, saying the president did not believe in American exceptionalism.
"The president and I disagree on many issues - his approach to health care, jobs and energy independence, to name a few," Mr. Coffman wrote. "But disagreeing on these issues was not license for me to question his devotion to our country."
"I believe President Obama loves this country and wakes up every morning trying to do what is best for our nation, even if I disagree with his approach. To question the president's devotion to our country based on the fact that we disagree over policy issues was wrong of me and I am sorry."
The opinion piece was published on the same day Ken Bennett, Arizona's secretary of state, apologized for any embarrassment he might have caused the state by requesting verification in March that Mr. Obama was born in Hawaii. Mr. Bennett is the Arizona co-chairman of Mitt Romney's presidential campaign and is exploring a run for governor in 2014.
Doubts about Mr. Obama's birthplace have persisted among some conservatives despite the release in April 2011 of his long-form birth certificate. The White House has also made the document available online.
Mr. Coffman isn't the first embattled Republican from a swing state to raise the so-called birther issue in the 2012 election cycle. Representatives Cliff Stearns of Florida and Vicky Hartzler of Missouri have publicly questioned Mr. Obama's citizenship in recent months, only to apologize later. And The Charlotte Observer recently retracted an endorsement for Jim Pendergraph, who is running to replace Representative Sue Myrick in North Carolina's Ninth Congressional District, after he raised doubts about Mr. Obama's birthplace.
When asked about the repeated episodes, Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said, "The Speaker has told his members repeatedly that this year is going to be a referendum on the president's economic policies and that's where our focus should remain."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); CITIZENSHIP (68%); CONSERVATISM (64%) Coffman, Mike; Obama, Barack; Citizenship and Naturalization; United States Politics and Government; Denver Post; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Arizona; Colorado; North Carolina; The 44th President

COMPANY: DENVER POST CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Denver Post; House of Representatives; Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: MIKE COFFMAN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SUE WILKINS MYRICK (59%); VICKY HARTZLER (50%) Coffman, Mike; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Arizona; Colorado; North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



949 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: What Romney Should Do About Immigration

BYLINE: C. STEWART VERDERY, JR.


HIGHLIGHT: Five fresh ideas for the candidate to use as the foundation for a new Republican policy on legal and illegal immigrants. 

 BODY:
Earlier this month, asked about Mitt Romney's immigration policy, Bettina Inclan, the director of Hispanic outreach for the Republican National Committee, stumbled into the remark that "he's still deciding what his position on immigration is." While the campaign distanced itself from the gaffe immediately, the comment was actually good advice, even if unintentional.
During a lengthy primary season, Romney's effective use of base politics on immigration was a key part of his victory, especially in snuffing out Rick Perry's potential ascent. But after those strategic attacks, which included Romney's awkward "self-deportation" plan for illegal aliens, Romney must execute a creative pivot to the middle to attract moderate voters, especially Hispanic moderates. In an election that looks to be razor-close, how effectively Romney recaptures turf in the immigration debate could decide swing states like Nevada, Colorado and Virginia. Looking longer-term, a President Romney would have to find a solution to the immigration issue - a social crisis that has eluded political consensus for two decades - if he wanted to save his party from slow-fuse political suicide.
The immigration wars since 9/11 have left Republicans searching for a formula that allows candidates to survive litmus tests from the right - they must oppose any legalization for lawbreakers - while at the same time heeding the calls from party strategists and business interests to make our wildly outdated immigration policies reflect the realities of the modern international world.
Romney dedicated much of the speech he gave to the Latino Coalition earlier this week to education, but here are five policy announcements - of varying degrees of political controversy - that Romney should wrap into a high-minded address on immigration and competitiveness that would capture the middle ground. While the details are important, the tone would be, too - most Americans are weary of bombastic talk radio rhetoric on this issue and are looking for thoughtful, bold leadership.
High-skilled immigration: Romney has already endorsed proposals that would allow more highly skilled scientists to enter the United States under temporary visas and to allow foreign students educated here to receive green cards to allow them to stay here and work. However, these proposals have been blocked in Congress by proponents of a broad amnesty that is a non-starter with most Congressional Republicans. Romney should demand passage of the high-skilled agenda before the graduation of the class of 2013 next spring produces another crop of international leaders, educated here in America, needlessly forced to return home to compete against us. If you graduate with an engineering degree from Stanford, we should staple a green card to your diploma.
Temporary travel: President Obama has seized travel as a means to create jobs in the service sector. He released a national strategy to cut visa wait times and endorsed an expanded list of countries from which tourists and business travelers can come to the United States without a full-fledged visa interview. Romney should build on these goals by promising to expand access to the United States to job creators by allowing visa interviews by videoconference and creating fast-track consideration for businessmen and women looking to purchase American goods, attend American trade shows, or purchase American medical services.
"Good Neighbor" visa: Romney opposes the Democratic version of the Dream Act, which would provide legal status and citizenship to those who arrived in the United States as children. What he needs to find instead is a class of immigrants whose continuing contributions to society are worth protecting. He should propose a new visa category of unlimited duration that allows "good neighbors" to remain in the United States without gaining any special advantage over those who have obeyed the law while seeking to become citizens. This "good neighbors" group would include individuals with a clean criminal record working in the military, in law enforcement, or as a first responder, people who are running businesses with at least 10 employees, or serving as clergy members or teachers. Hundreds of thousands of our neighbors in this "white hat" group are viewed sympathetically by all but the fringes of the American electorate. This would allow Romney to base his immigration policy on a person's good behavior and contributions to society, rather than the circumstances of his or her arrival. Even those seeking a broader amnesty might see some merit in showing Americans the benefits of recognizing the contributions of immigrants who broke the rules to get here.
Enforcement: Romney has pretty much endorsed a kitchen sink approach to enforcement, but budget realities may complicate his ability to make major additional investments. It is clear that the most cost effective enforcement activity is to concentrate on criminal aliens via the Secure Communities fingerprint program and to implement new employer enforcement checks under the E-Verify program (in tandem with the Good Neighbor program). Even as President Obama has increased deportations, the undeniable truth is that mandating workplace checks is the only effective long-term approach to turning off the jobs magnet attracting illegal labor to this country.
"American Dream" constitutional amendment: The antiquated provision of the Constitution that requires the president to be born on American soil should be repealed. In becoming the first Western democracy to elect a racial minority to the highest office in the land in 2008, the United States once again demonstrated its "melting pot" quality to the world. Allowing any United States citizen, no matter where he or she was physically born, to run for president would send a similar signal that Americans care most about a person's ideas and character, not race and origin. This goal would also put an appropriate and necessary end to the distraction of the Obama "birther" debate that has captured a sliver of the far right's attention - most Republicans and moderate voters would embrace this "American Dream" proposal as a way to demonstrate their support of legal immigrants.
Wrapping these five policy announcements into a broader speech about how the United States needs the best talent possible to compete internationally would mesh well with Romney's broader economic game plan. More urgently, it would reposition Romney for the general election fight by showing a different attitude on immigration and diversity issues. Getting out in front of the issue would also allow him to escape the current legislative debate over fine print of the Dream Act.
To be sure, wading into the immigration battle brings risk of attack from the right and from members of Congress who can coast to re-election in safe districts without worrying about demographic changes that affect national elections. However, unless Romney chooses to unveil a new immigration policy, the election returns coming in from states like Nevada, Colorado and Virginia on Nov. 6 may make this the first presidential election where the immigration issue denied the Republicans a victory well within their grasp.

        
Believing in Obama
        
Romney's Weasel Problem
        
Richard Nixon's Model Campaign
        
Things That Really Matter
        
Boasting About Bin Laden

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DEPORTATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (64%); JOB CREATION (50%) Hispanic voters; legal and illegal immigration; Mitt Romney; Romney, Mitt; Immigration and Emigration; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%) Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK PERRY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



950 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Despite Doubts, Lehman Charges Still Possible

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Suggestions that an investigation into the collapse of Lehman Brothers could end without any enforcement actions came from a months-old memo that was drafted by low-level S.E.C. enforcement staff members, the people briefed on the matter say. 

 BODY:
Federal authorities are still weighing a potential enforcement action against Lehman Brothers, even as some investigators question whether they can mount a case against former executives of the bankrupt firm, according to people briefed on the matter. 
In the aftermath of Lehman's blow-up in September 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission opened an enforcement investigation. Regulators are thought to have examined whether, as some securities experts have suggested, the Wall Street firm and its top executives violated accounting and public disclosure rules. 
Nearly four years later, new questions have arisen about whether the S.E.C.'s enforcement division will recommend charges in the case. The suggestion that the high-profile case could end in a whimper came from a memo that was drafted by the agency's enforcement staff members, the people briefed on the matter said. 
Bloomberg News earlier disclosed the existence of the undated memo on Thursday, reporting that the document said: "The staff has concluded its investigation and determined that charges will likely not be recommended."
S.E.C. officials confirmed the existence of the memo and did not dispute its wording. 
But Lehman and its executives are hardly home free. People close to the matter cautioned that the memo was months old, has been updated since and does not necessarily reflect how more senior agency officials view the case. The full contents of the memo are unclear.
While the enforcement staff may be done digging into the case, having interviewed witnesses and poured over the firm's internal documents and public filings, the agency's top officials are still analyzing a potential case. Ultimately, after further review, the agency could still file an enforcement action. 
The collapse of Lehman, the biggest bankruptcy filing in United States history, was at the epicenter of an earthquake that shook the global financial system.
The S.E.C. has already come under fire for not suing many top executives running troubled Wall Street firms during the crisis. The absence of a Lehman case would only stoke such complaints. 
The agency notes, however, that it has sued 102 firms and individuals in cases tied to the crisis, including top executives at major mortgage firms. It has also filed actions against several big banks, including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase. 
And even in the Lehman case, people close to the agency disputed the notion that the case is petering out. 
Since the memo was drafted months ago, the agency's chairwoman assured Congress that the Lehman case remains "under investigation and analysis." In testimony before the House Financial Services Committee on April 25, Mary L. Schapiro told lawmakers that the related legal issues are not "clear cut as it seems to be," 
In addition, the enforcement staff does not have the final say on whether to file civil cases against firms and executives. In the Lehman case, one person briefed on the matter said, the agency's division of corporation finance and other units also might weigh in. It is unclear whether the finance division, which evaluates public filings, has issued a recommendation on the case. 
"As the chairman said, it's still under review and no final decision has been made," a spokesperson said.
Federal prosecutors have also looked into the Lehman matter. No one at Lehman has been accused of any wrongdoing. 

        
Wall Street Wants More From the JOBS Act
        
Regulator Seeks Feedback on JOBS Act

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); WITNESSES (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); LITIGATION (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); EARTHQUAKES (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%) Financial Crisis; Lehman Brothers; S.E.C.; Securities and Exchange Commission; Schapiro, Mary L; Banking and Financial Institutions; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%) Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (76%) Schapiro, Mary L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



951 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: In Wisconsin, Walker Is Likely to Survive Recall

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Scott Walker leads Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee by an average of six percentage points in recent polls and has not trailed in any poll since February. 

 BODY:
Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, a Republican, is likely to survive a recall election on June 5, according to recent nonpartisan polls of the state.
Mr. Walker leads his Democratic opponent, Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, by an average of six percentage points in those polls and has not trailed in any poll since February.
Some polls issued by Democratic-affiliated groups have shown a somewhat tighter race, with Mr. Barrett trailing by about three percentage points instead. Partisan-affiliated polls have a long track record of somewhat exaggerating their candidate's standing, however, and it may be telling that even these polls do not show Mr. Barrett ahead.
In a typical November election, a 6-point lead with two weeks to go would translate into a high probability of winning -- roughly on the order of 90 percent, based on the historical accuracy of polls of governors' races.
The dynamics of a recall election may be slightly more uncertain. But with high turnout expected, which tends to make polling more reliable, Mr. Barrett would most likely need a last-minute change in momentum to have much of a chance of prevailing.
Mr. Walker's approval rating was poor at this time last year, after he stripped collective bargaining rights from most of the state's public workers. In May 2011, his job approval rating averaged 42 percent across different polls, versus an average disapproval rating of 55 percent.
In an average of polls conducted so far this May, however, Mr. Walker's approval rating averages 50 percent, with 46 percent disapproving. 
If Mr. Walker's approval-disapproval ratings were even, he might be a favorite to win the recall election because some voters who are on the fence might nevertheless object to the idea of removing a governor from office in midterm. Since his approval rating now appears to exceed his disapproval rating by a couple of points, that should give him a clearer advantage.
But why has Mr. Walker's approval rating improved?
The most obvious reason might be that Wisconsin's economic climate has improved. The statistics on that are mixed, however.
On the bright side for Mr. Walker, Wisconsin's unemployment rate is 6.7 percent, lower than the national average of 8.1 percent, and it has improved since Mr. Walker took office in January 2011, when it was 7.7 percent. 
The 1-point decline in state unemployment parallels a 1-point decline in the national unemployment rate, to 8.1 percent from 9.1 percent, over the same time frame.
Some of the improvement in Wisconsin, however, is due to sluggish growth in its labor force, which has allowed its unemployment rate to shrink despite relatively slow job creation. Wisconsin's labor force was listed at 3.07 million workers in April, the same as in January 2011. (The growth in the United States' labor force has also been slow, although it has been positive, increasing to 154.37 million from 153.25 million over the same period.)
An alternate measure of the job market is to look at the number of jobs or employed persons, rather than the unemployment rate. According to the Labor Department's household survey, the number of employed people in Wisconsin has increased to 2.86 million from 2.83 million when Mr. Walker took office, an improvement of about 1 percent.
On the other hand, the Labor Department's establishment survey, which measures the number of payroll jobs and is sometimes considered more reliable by economists, shows a slight decline in the number of jobs in Wisconsin. That survey lists 2.73 million payroll jobs in Wisconsin in April, versus 2.74 in January 2011, a decline of about 0.5 percent.
By contrast, the number of payroll jobs in the United States as a whole grew to 132.99 million from 130.46 million over the same period, an increase of 1.9 percent.
Broader measures of economic activity in Wisconsin, like the leading index and the coincident index, also slow more sluggish growth in Wisconsin than in the nation as a whole, and forecast somewhat less growth going forward.
However, the mixed data gives Mr. Walker an argument to make, and he has had a lot more money to make it. Mr. Walker has had a substantial edge in fund-raising, having raised about $25 million since becoming governor, about 60 percent of it from groups and individuals outside the state.
Although labor unions from inside and outside Wisconsin have also devoted substantial money toward the recall effort, Mr. Barrett's campaign itself has relatively little money, in part because he faced a contentious primary in which cash and support was split between several candidates. As of May 7, Mr. Barrett had raised only about $1.1 million.
A recent poll from Marquette University found that more Wisconsin residents believe the state has lost jobs than added them over the past year. But there is some optimism about Wisconsin's economic future; 45 percent of residents expect the state's sconomy to get better over the next year, against 12 percent who expect it to get worse. Those numbers were closer to even in surveys a year ago.
Meanwhile, the collective bargaining issue that inspired the recall effort seems to have faded from memory and does not appear to be much of a burden for Mr. Walker. According to the Marquette poll, 50 percent of Wisconsin residents prefer the law as it is now under Mr. Walker, while 43 percent would prefer the old one.
Mr. Barrett has de-emphasized the collective bargaining issue, instead running a more traditional gubernatorial campaign. 
Generally, however, it is difficult to oust an incumbent governor from office. They win about 80 percent of the time when they decide to run for another term and it usually requires some sort of special circumstance to beat them. 
Mr. Barrett does not appear as though he'll have quite enough of a case. 
Instead, Wisconsin seems to have reverted to the mean in which elections there are normally close. But Mr. Walker's fund-raising advantage and his status as the incumbent, coupled with swing voters' being uncomfortable with the idea of a recall, will likely be enough to push him over the top.
Such a result will undoubtedly be disheartening to Democrats, although they should remember that an embattled incumbent of their own, President Obama, will be running for re-election in a similarly divided electorate with similarly mixed economic data.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (51%) Politics; Polling

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%) WISCONSIN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2012



952 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Dish Seeks Ruling on Feature That Skips All Commercials

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER


HIGHLIGHT: The Dish Network and three television networks filed opposing lawsuits on Thursday over a feature that allows television viewers to automatically skip all the commercials during most prime time shows. 

 BODY:
7:00 p.m. | Updated The Dish Network and three television networks filed opposing lawsuits on Thursday over Auto Hop, a feature that allows Dish subscribers to automatically skip all the advertising during most prime time shows.
The owners of the CBS, Fox and NBC networks accused Dish of copyright infringement in connection with the feature, which has been technically feasible for over a decade but which has not been offered to consumers by a major distributor until now.
The owner of the NBC network, NBCUniversal, said in a statement that the feature was "unlawful."
"Dish simply does not have the authority to tamper with the ads from broadcast replays on a wholesale basis for its own economic and commercial advantage," the company said.
At around the same time the networks were filing their suits in California, Dish was filing its suit in New York. The distributor asked for a ruling that Auto Hop "does not infringe any copyrights that could be claimed by the major networks, and that Dish, while providing the Auto Hop feature, remains in compliance with its agreements with the networks," according to a news release from the company. Read more...

        
America Has 'Idol' Fatigue, as Finale Is Lowest Rated in Its History
        
Falling Interest in 'American Idol' as It Prepares to Crown a Winner
        
Time Warner Cable Head Sides With TV Networks Over Ad-Erasing Technology
        
NBC Executive Chafes at Commercial-Skipping DVR and Nielsen's Rating System
        
Fox Fall Lineup Makes a Bet on Comedy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); LITIGATION (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); COPYRIGHT (77%); COPYRIGHT LAW (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (72%) Dish Network; fox; Ergen, Charles W; Suits and Litigation; Television; Fox Broadcasting Co

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (93%); DISH NETWORK CORP (58%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Dish Network; Fox Broadcasting Co

TICKER: DISH (NASDAQ) (58%); TWC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%)

PERSON: CHARLES ERGEN (73%) Ergen, Charles W

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012



953 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2449 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Questions of Fair Play Arise in Facebook's I.P.O. Process | As Washington intensifies its scrutiny of the initial public offering of Facebook, the company's bankers are facing questions about whether the process - even if perfectly legal - was fair.
The concerns center on Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and other banks involved in the I.P.O. that shared a negative outlook about Facebook with a select group of clients, rather than broadly with all investors.
In the days leading up to Facebook's debut, analysts at several banks ratcheted down their growth estimates for the social network. The move came after the company told them that quarterly and annual revenue would be on the softer side, said people briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the issue publicly.
As is typical in the I.P.O. process, research analysts at Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and other firms contacted certain clients to discuss their revised expectations, while other big investors called on the banks to get their new take. But ordinary mom-and-pop investors did not have the same access to the valuable information. Now, regulators and lawmakers are taking a closer look. DealBook 
The Potential Legal Exposure in Facebook I.P.O. | The success of shareholder lawsuits is likely to come down to whether there was information provided that needed to be disclosed to all investors and whether Facebook should have given more specific details, Peter J. Henning and Steven M. Davidoff write in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook 
Buffett's Goldman Deal Is Topic in an Insider Case | Byron D. Trott has spent a career carefully cultivating the image of the discreet investment banker, a behind-the-scenes counselor to some of America's wealthiest businessmen, including his star client, Warren E. Buffett. At Goldman Sachs, Mr. Trott was so vigilant about guarding clients' confidences that he was known to fire underlings who discussed private matters in the bank's elevators.
But on Wednesday, Mr. Trott was forced to speak publicly about one of his biggest and most important deals - Mr. Buffett's $5 billion investment in Goldman during the heart of the financial crisis in September 2008.
Mr. Trott took the witness stand for about an hour on Wednesday at the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman director charged with leaking boardroom secrets to his friend and business associate Raj Rajaratnam. Among the accusations is that Mr. Gupta gave Mr. Rajaratnam advance word of Mr. Buffett's Goldman investment. DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
At Apple, a New Tune | Timothy D. Cook, who took over as Apple's chief executive before the death of Steven P. Jobs, has a noticeably different management style than that of his predecessor. Fortune reports: "It's a subtle but significant change - investors now have the C.E.O.'s ear for the first time in years - and it's one of many Cook has instituted at Apple as he approaches his one-year mark at the helm." FORTUNE
Sandberg Refers to Facebook in Speech | Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, did not talk about her company's much-criticized I.P.O. in a speech at Harvard University, but she did make one reference to the social network. After urging graduates to use Facebook to stay in touch, she said, according to Reuters: "We're public now, so could you please click on an ad or two while you're there." REUTERS
Stewart Returns as Chairwoman of Her Namesake Company | Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia said on Wednesday that Martha Stewart had been elected nonexecutive chairwoman of the company she founded. DealBook 
Philanthropy Is Largely Absent From Greek Crisis | Greece, deep in the throes of a punishing economic crisis, is home to shipping magnates who enjoy tax-free status and a wealthy class of so-called oligarchs, who dominate core areas of the economy. The New York Times reports that "pressure is mounting on the country's rich to do what the state can no longer effectively do: write checks. After all, philanthropy is a Greek word. But with many wealthy Greeks still fearful of showing their financial hand, private giving to date has been relatively meager." NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Silver Lake and Partners Group to Buy Global Blue for $1.25 Billion | The private equity firm Silver Lake and the investment management company Partners Group have agreed to buy Global Blue, a tax-free shopping business. DealBook 
Shell Says It Is Considering Options for Cove Energy | After its bid for Cove Energy was topped by a $1.9 billion offer by PTT Exploration and Production of Thailand, Royal Dutch Shell said in a statement that shareholders would have an extra three weeks to accept its offer, adding that it was "currently considering its options and will make a further announcement if appropriate," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Oman Is Said to Suspend HSBC Merger | Oman has temporarily suspended a merger between HSBC's local operations and the Oman International Bank because of a lawsuit against HSBC, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Japan Tobacco Expands in Europe With $598 Million Deal | Japan Tobacco, a giant in Japan's cigarette market, said it had agreed to buy Gryson, a Belgian company that makes products for hand-rolling cigarettes, for about $597.7 million, Reuters reports. REUTERS
AMC Deal May Herald More Acquisitions | Wang Jianlin, the Chinese businessman behind the Wanda Group's $2.6 billion deal to buy AMC Entertainment, told The Wall Street Journal that he was considering additional deals in other industries. Mr. Wang told the newspaper that "private equity lacks the long-term vision that we have." WALL STREET JOURNAL
For T-Mobile, a Sale May Not Be in the Cards | The chief executive of Deutsche Telekom, the parent company of T-Mobile, said "a complete sale like the one to AT&T is considered unlikely," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sales Executive Leaves Research In Motion | RIM, the struggling BlackBerry maker, said Patrick Spence had resigned as head of global sales to take a job in another industry, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Spain Plans to Recapitalize Bankia | The Spanish government will provide about 9 billion euros ($11.4 billion) to the ailing lender Bankia, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Former Fed Official Named Chairman of Citibank's Board | Anthony Santomero, a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, has been named chairman of the board of Citibank N.A., the banking subsidiary of Citigroup, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Commerzbank Plans to Resume Dividend | Commerzbank of Germany, which has not paid a dividend since 2008, plans to resume payments for the 2013 business year, its chief executive said, according to The Wall Street Journal. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Are Banks Too Complex to Manage? | Sallie Krawcheck, who led Bank of America's wealth management division until a management reshuffling in September, writes in The Financial Times: "The JPMorgan loss demonstrated once again that risk measurements have struggled to keep up with complexity." FINANCIAL TIMES
Uncertainty Haunts Market for Mortgage Securities | Wall Street banks sold $2.4 billion of securities backed by commercial mortgages this month, with investors demanding the greatest yield so far this year, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Haven From High-Frequency Traders | A group led by a former head of electronic trading at the Royal Bank of Canada plans to create a new trading platform that would exclude high-frequency trading firms, in an effort to protect mutual fund managers, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY 
President's Attacks on Private Equity May Have Pitfalls | The perilous line that President Obama is trying to walk in attacking Mitt Romney's record at Bain Capital was underscored by a fund-raiser last week at the Park Avenue home of Hamilton E. James, president of the Blackstone Group, coming just hours after Mr. Obama's campaign had released an ad criticizing private equity, The New York Times reports.
Not everyone was as forgiving as Mr. James, who told friends, "Campaigns do what campaigns have to do," according to The Times. NEW YORK TIMES
There's More to Private Equity Than the Ads Show | Julie Creswell reports in The New York Times that "job creation was actually never part of the industry's mission statement, just a nice happenstance if it occurred. The world of private equity is a nuanced, complicated business that will never be fully captured in anybody's ads this political season. Yet, despite the debate swirling around it, private equity plays a central role in the economy." NEW YORK TIMES
CVC Said to Seek Up to $13.5 Billion for Fund | CVC Capital Partners is looking to raise what could become the largest buyout fund on the market, with plans to invest in Europe, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people briefed on the matter. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hollywood Talent Agency in Buyout | A group of agents at ICM Partners bought the company from the private equity firm Rizvi Traverse Management and Jeffrey Berg, the former chief executive, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS 
Rajaratnam's Goldman Trade a Focus at Gupta Trial | Day three of the Rajat K. Gupta insider trading trial began with testimony from a former trader at Raj Rajaratnam's hedge fund, the Galleon Group. DealBook 
Hedge Funds Add Compliance Personnel | Since 2008, 98 percent of hedge funds have hired additional staff members to deal with regulatory compliance, according to a new survey, FINalternatives reports. FINALTERNATIVES
Court Fight Intensifies at Highland Capital | A struggle between James Dondero, the founder Highland Capital Management, and a former employee, Patrick Daugherty, became more heated when Mr. Daugherty claimed the company improperly transferred assets between funds, The Wall Street Journal reports. wall street journal
Johnson & Johnson Tops a List of Short Positions | A newly created list from Goldman Sachs, called "50 Very Important Short Positions," tracking stocks that hedge funds are betting against, featured Johnson & Johnson, Exxon Mobil, Intel, I.B.M. and Amazon in the top five, Reuters reports. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Knight Capital Estimates Facebook Loss | The Knight Capital Group, which had blamed Nasdaq for the troubles surrounding the Facebook I.P.O., estimated in a regulatory filing that it lost $30 million to $35 million trading shares of the social network, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Morgan Stanley Said to Profit on Stabilizing Facebook | Morgan Stanley and other underwriters have made about $100 million stabilizing the shares of Facebook since they began trading on Friday, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Zynga Plans Additional Advertising | The social games company Zynga plans to announce an agreement to put more advertising in Draw Something, the game it acquired through an $180 million deal in March, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Pandora Reports a Wider Loss | Pandora Media, the Internet radio company that went public last June, said its loss tripled in its fiscal first quarter compared with a year earlier, but the results beat analysts' expectations, The Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Kraft's Snack Business Gets a New Name | On Wednesday, shareholders of Kraft Foods overwhelmingly approved a new name for the $35 billion snack foods company that will be separated from the North American grocery division this year: Mondelez International.
NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Doubts Surround Start-Up Accelerators | Despite the popularity of so-called accelerators, like Y Combinator and TechStars, critics question whether the programs actually increase an entrepreneur's chances of success, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sequoia Capital Said to Be Expanding to Brazil | By setting up a regional office, likely in So Paulo, Sequoia Capital would be the latest Silicon Valley stalwart to tap into the region's growing economy.
DealBook 
A Venture Capitalist Defends the Industry | Mark Suster, an entrepreneur-turned-V.C., writes on PEHub: "Looking ahead at the next decade I am excited by what I believe will be viewed as one of the best and most rational investment periods for venture capital."
PEHUB
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Should Jamie Dimon Resign From the Fed? | In the Economix blog, Simon Johnson writes about the seat that the JPMorgan Chase chief executive holds on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York: "There is an undeniable perception problem. It is damaging the legitimacy of the Federal Reserve. As Treasury Secretary Geithner implied, this must be 'addressed' - a great Washington euphemism - by Mr. Dimon leaving the board of the New York Fed."
NEW YORK TIMES ECONOMIX
Accounting Firm Loses Registration Over Deals in China | A case against a company called Brock, Schechter & Polakoff highlights the apparently low barriers to entry for accounting firms that want to audit Chinese companies whose shares are registered in the United States, Floyd Norris reports for The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Guessing the Next Treasury Secretary | With seven months remaining before the departure of Timothy F. Geithner, pundits have already begun to speculate about his successor, the Economix blog writes.
NEW YORK TIMES ECONOMIX
A.I.G. Blocked From Pursuing Some Claims Against Countrywide | A judge dismissed some of A.I.G.'s claims in a lawsuit over $10 billion of losses related to mortgage-backed securities, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Google Cleared in Patent Infringement Case | A federal jury decided that Google did not infringe on any of Oracle's patents when it used Java software in its Android operating system, the Bits blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES BITS
French Regulator Criticizes Google | The French data protection agency accused Google of being insufficiently forthcoming in an investigation of its new privacy policy, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
MasterCard Fails to Overturn an Antitrust Decision | Europe's General Court upheld the decision by the European Commission that MasterCard's cross-border fees had violated antitrust rules, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); INSIDER TRADING (75%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (72%); LITIGATION (65%); WITNESSES (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); APPLE INC (80%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GS (NYSE) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (80%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (80%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (80%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (80%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (71%); STEVEN JOBS (67%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (55%); TIM COOK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



954 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths STEINBERG, ANDREW

 BODY:
STEINBERG--Andrew, 53, of Chevy Chase, MD and Falls Village, CT, died at home in Chevy Chase on May 20 of uveal melanoma. A partner in the Washington, DC office of Jones Day, one of the nation's leading aviation regulatory lawyers; a man of extraordinary intellect, integrity and humility. Held both of the nation's two top aviation regulatory positions under President George W. Bush. Was a recognized authority on legal issues relating to modernizing air traffic control, aviation and aerospace regulation, aviation and climate change, foreign market access, computerized travel distribution. 
From 2006 until 2008, was Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Aviation and International Affairs; from 2003 to 2006 was Chief Counsel of the Federal Aviation Administration. He was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Travelocity.com from inception of the company in 2000 until 2003. From 1996 to 2000 he was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of SABRE, which he guided through separation from American Airlines to a public company in 2000. From 1990 to 1996 held senior legal positions at American Airlines, as Associate General Counsel for employment and environmental and Senior Attorney for antitrust. Prior to 1990 Andy was an associate in the Los Angeles office of Gibson, Dunn, and Crutcher, practicing antitrust and commercial litigation. During his tenure at the U.S. Dept of Transportation, led the department's efforts to secure open skies agreement with the E.U. and helped negotiate agreement with China that doubled the number of routes between China and the U.S. With U.S. Depts. of State and Treasury, directed the Civil Aviation delegation of the first China-U.S. Strategic Economic Dialogue (SED) in 2006 led by then-Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson. He led the U.S. delegation in Montreal during the 2007 International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Assembly, defending the U.S. position on aviation and climate change, for which he was later awarded the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award (now known as the Montreal Protocol Award) from the Environmental Protection Agency. At the FAA, promoted the use of satellite based air traffic systems to modernize air traffic control and improve safety in the U.S. and abroad, and was instrumental in spearheading FAA's legal strategy in protracted labor negotiations with air traffic controllers. While at Travelocity, he had the unusual distinction of being awarded a citation from the F.B.I. for work pursuing information about the transactions of an infamous Travelocity customer, Muhammad Atta, a 9/11 hijacker who used Travelocity.com to make reservations for air and car travel in the months leading up to the attacks. That information later proved useful in leading to the arrests of Al-Qaida terrorists in Spain and Germany. Earlier in his career, he represented American Airlines in defeating claims of predatory pricing and monopolization by Continental Airlines and Northwest Airlines. Andy was born in Perth Amboy, NJ, grew up in Scarsdale and graduated from Edgemont High School. He earned his A.B. from Princeton in 1980, and J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1984, after teaching English in Japan through Princeton-in-Asia. He clerked for the Honorable Richard H. Gadbois, Jr., in the U.S. District Court in the Central District of California. Andy served as president of the International Aviation Club of Washington, D.C., on the governing committee of the ABA Air and Space Law Forum, on the Board of the Empower African Children Foundation, and volunteered for Boy Scout Troop 52 in Chevy Chase. Andy loved bicycling around Washington, DC and the country roads near his home in Falls Village. His main hobby was being with his family, sharing music, travel, and well-written comedy; a quick, wry wit, he was a well-qualified critic. A devoted husband and father, Andy leaves and will forever be mourned by his wife Roxann, daughter Madeline and son Malcolm, his brother and sister-in-law, Laurence and Wendy Steinberg, of Philadelphia; his nephew, Benjamin Steinberg, of New York City, and will be sorely missed by friends, colleagues, and admirers worldwide. He was buried in Falls Village, CT; a memorial service will be held in Washington DC at a later date. Memorial contributions to The Eye Cancer Research Foundation, PO Box 832, Philadelphia, PA 19105

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (91%); LAWYERS (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); AIRLINES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (83%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL LAW (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); AIR QUALITY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); EYE CANCER (73%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); SKIN CANCER (73%); HIJACKING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); AL-QAEDA (60%); ARRESTS (50%)

COMPANY: GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (84%); JONES DAY (58%); TRAVELOCITY.COM INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (50%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (74%); CANADA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



955 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Growth in U.S. Manufacturing Declines

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing new claims for jobless benefits fell last week, indicating the economy is plodding ahead despite economic troubles in Europe that have cut into United States manufacturing growth, data released Thursday showed. 
The data showed the recovery remained resilient even with growth in China slowing and the euro zone, the 17 members of the European Union that use the euro, edging toward recession.
''We are growing at a moderate pace of 2 to 2 1/4 percent, but we have some headwinds that are starting to assert themselves, particularly coming from Europe,'' Paul Edelstein, an economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Mass., said.
Initial claims for state unemployment benefits slipped by 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 370,000, the Labor Department said. The four-week moving average, considered a better measure of labor market trends, also fell to 370,000, dropping by 5,500.
Although claims have changed little in the last four weeks, they remain below levels reached in mid-April. That suggests some improvement in the rate of job creation this month after April's disappointing 115,000 gain in nonfarm payrolls.
Europe's festering debt problems and a cooler rate of activity in China have started to hurt American factories.
In a separate report, manufacturing growth in the United States tapered off in May, according to the financial information firm Markit. Its Purchasing Managers Index fell to a reading of 53.9 this month, a three-month low, from 56.0 in April.
Any reading above 50 indicates expansion; the data showed the factory sector had enjoyed a 32-month growth streak.
Markit's chief economist, Chris Williamson, attributed the moderation in activity to a softening in exports resulting from the deteriorating situation in Europe and the slowdown in China.
Several European countries, including Britain and Spain, have already tumbled into recession, while recent economic indicators have shown that China's days of consistent double-digit growth have come to an end.
A third report, from the Commerce Department, showed new orders for durable goods rose 0.2 percent in April after dropping 3.7 percent in March.
Orders for durable goods, which are intended to last at least three years, were lifted by demand for transportation equipment. But orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for business spending plans, fell 1.9 percent in April after falling 2.2 percent in March.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orders for durable goods, like a stove, meant to last at least three years, rose 0.2 percent in May. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); EURO (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



956 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Newspaper Scales Back in Sign of Print Upheaval

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY; Campbell Robertson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Times-Picayune, a 175-year-old fixture in New Orleans and a symbol of the city's gritty resilience during Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath, has buckled under the pressures of the modern newspaper market.
Advance Publications, owned by the Newhouse family, said Thursday it would scale back the printed edition to three days a week and impose staff cuts as a way to reduce costs as well as shift its emphasis to expanded online coverage.
The decision will leave New Orleans as the most prominent American city without a newspaper that is printed every day. But it also reflects the declining lure of the paper as a printed product. In 2005, before Katrina struck, the paper had a daily circulation of 261,000; in March of this year, the circulation was 132,000.
The developments were the latest instance of reorganization in a rapidly changing industry, which continues to struggle with declining advertising revenue and the changing preferences of readers for online news outlets. Data tracked by the Audit Bureau of Circulations showed that papers with a circulation of 25,000 or more had a 21 percent drop in circulation between 2007 and 2012. 
In response, papers have slashed costs, trimmed the number of employees, reduced coverage, and some have experimented with cutting the number of days they print. The Ann Arbor News in Michigan, another Newhouse newspaper, cut back the printed paper to Thursdays and Sundays in 2009, and hired a fraction of its former staff to run the Web site AnnArbor.com. In 2010, The Detroit News began delivering its paper to subscribers on Thursdays and Fridays only, although it prints papers every day.
Executives at Advance said the paper and its Web site, NOLA.com, would be reconstituted into a new company, the NOLA Media Group, as a way of adapting to the new ways news was being delivered and consumed in an increasingly digital age. An internal memo to the staff said there would be newsroom reductions, but did not specify how many.
''This is a forced march to digital, brought on by the fact that advertising this year has declined so much more than the industry expected,'' said Ken Doctor, a consultant to the newspaper industry. ''Everyone knows that print editions are going the way of the steam engine, but I question whether they have the readiness to make this switch in such a hurry.''
After the experiment with decreased frequency in Ann Arbor and a string of small daily newspapers in Michigan, the company decided that it was the best, and perhaps only, route to ensure the long-term survival of its newspaper in New Orleans. Beginning in the fall, The Times-Picayune will issue print editions on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday, in part because those days are the most valuable for advertisers, said Ricky Mathews, who will become president of the NOLA Media Group.
''We did not make these changes out of desperation -- we have a very strong operation in New Orleans -- but we face tremendous challenges in terms of both revenue and the 24 hour news cycle,'' Steven Newhouse, chairman of Advance.net, the corporate digital arm of Advance Publications, said in a telephone interview. ''We needed to make a plan for the long-term and not sit still for a spiral of losses and cutbacks.''
The Times-Picayune changes were followed hours later by an announcement of a similar initiative at three Newhouse papers in Alabama -- The Birmingham News, The Press-Register of Mobile and The Huntsville Times. They, too, will print only three days a week and undergo staff cuts.
The shake-up at The Times-Picayune is certain to change the traditionally intimate relationship New Orleanians have with their newspaper. Despite circulation declines, it is a fixture in coffee shops and barber shops (it has a 75.5 percent penetration in a city of about 340,000).
Nothing bonded the city and the paper more closely than the adversity of Katrina, the devastating storm that shut down communications around New Orleans for a few days in 2005. The Times-Picayune published online for three days when it could not publish in print, serving as a trusted messenger and conveyor of information in a period of chaos and grief. For its work, the staff was awarded two Pulitzer Prizes in 2006, for public service and breaking news coverage.
On Thursday, people around the city questioned whether the paper would be able to maintain its watchdog role in a place where governance has traditionally demanded close watching. But even politicians declared their support for a paper that has continued to do ambitious, in-depth reporting.
''I expect there to be ferocious and very aggressive attempts to communicate to the ownership how important this paper is to the city of New Orleans,'' said Mayor Mitch Landrieu, himself a former paperboy.
On Thursday evening, a group of civic and business leaders gathered at the home of Anne Milling, who is on the board of the paper and is active in civic affairs, to consider options like trying to persuade Newhouse to reconsider or forming an investor group to buy the paper outright.
Mr. Newhouse said the newspaper was not for sale. ''We are very bullish on our future in New Orleans,'' he said. By creating enhanced print products three days a week, he expects to protect that ability of the newsroom to create quality journalism while using the Web to compete in a changed news cycle.
New Orleans has been steadily, if unevenly, recovering from the flooding after Katrina. And because of billions in federal recovery dollars, it has weathered the recession better than many other places. But it is a smaller city than it was seven years ago.
''The fact is that we have fewer people and fewer households,'' said Janet Speyrer, a professor of economics at the University of New Orleans.
Jim Amoss, the editor, will remain with the company as vice president for content. Mr. Amoss met with the staff periodically all day. ''The shock of the new has to wear off and it will take some talking and thinking about,'' he said. ''This is hard news to wrap your head around and adapt to. They are talented journalists and they understand the trends in the industry, I wasn't telling them something that was foreign to them.''
Reporters were heartened to hear from Mr. Amoss, but wondered why their paper had suddenly become a guinea pig, the largest so far, in the transition to digital.
According to a 2010 report from the Kaiser Foundation, 36 percent of residents in New Orleans still do not have Internet access at home. ''Both my subjects and my neighbors are always looking for a print copy of what I do,'' said one reporter.
The reporter added: ''One of the charms of New Orleans is that we are 10 years behind in everything, and that includes the Web.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Circulation of The Times-Picayune was 132,000 this year
before Hurricane Katrina in 2005, it was 261,000. Visitors to the Newseum in Washington looked at front pages at the time of the storm, above. The paper's headquarters, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 DACIA IDOM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWSEUM INC (59%); AUDIT BUREAU OF CIRCULATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



957 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: China Intensifies Squabble With U.S. on Energy Subsidy

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's Commerce Ministry accused the United States government on Thursday of violating free-trade rules through support for six renewable energy projects, but did not identify the projects or the trade rules that had allegedly been violated. It was the latest volley in a widening conflict between the two countries over clean power. 
The United States and China, the world's two biggest energy users, have pledged to work together to develop renewable sources. But they accuse each other of improperly subsidizing or protecting their manufacturers.
The Commerce Ministry's announcement of the results of an investigation that began in November gave no indication whether Beijing might try to impose punitive measures. Ministry representatives did not respond to requests by phone and fax for more details.
Beijing's investigation began two weeks after Washington announced an anti-dumping investigation involving Chinese solar power equipment. The resulting ruling came after the U.S. Commerce Department concluded last week that Chinese manufacturers were selling solar cells and panels at improperly low prices and proposed raising import tariffs.
Both governments see renewable energy as a promising source of high-technology jobs, a sensitive issue at a time of weak global demand. The United States is trying to bolster technology exports to revive economic growth and cut high unemployment.
The three-sentence Commerce Ministry statement said its investigation had concluded that U.S. government support for six projects violated World Trade Organization subsidy regulations.
It gave no details, but the ministry had said earlier that the investigation would cover wind, solar, hydroelectric and other renewable energy policies and include projects in Washington, Massachusetts, Ohio, New Jersey and California.
The earlier announcement said the investigation had been initiated at the request of Chinese manufacturers.
Foreign business groups complain that Beijing appears to be trying to restrict access to its fast-growing renewable energy market with proposals to limit foreign ownership or require companies to transfer technology to Chinese partners.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



958 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Gas Prices Modestly Lower At Start of Driving Season

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- As the Memorial Day weekend and the summer driving season approach, gasoline prices are easing. But most drivers will find prices only modestly lower than a year ago.
Nationwide, the price of a gallon of regular gasoline has been drifting lower by about half a cent a day over the last month, and energy analysts say that trend should continue over the next few weeks, in at least some states.
''Drivers are getting a respite,'' said Rodney L. Waller, a senior vice president at Range Resources, an oil and gas company based in Fort Worth. ''But it's a tenuous respite based on all the changes in the global oil market and the opening and closings of refineries across the U.S.'' 
Gasoline prices are dropping primarily because of a decline in global crude oil prices, stemming from an easing of tensions in the Middle East and growing oil supplies, bolstered in recent months by the rapid return of Libyan oil exports and increased production from Saudi Arabia. Because oil is priced in dollars, the firming value of the dollar in recent weeks in the wake of the European financial crisis has also helped reduce prices.
The sluggish global economy has also reduced demand for oil and other commodities, particularly in Europe. Demand growth in China, a main driver of oil prices in recent years, has slowed in recent months. And while gasoline demand in the United States has diminished in recent months because of the soft economy, oil supply inventories recently reached a 22-year high.
Gasoline prices on the East Coast have fallen in part because one large refinery in Philadelphia that was scheduled to be closed by Sunoco at the end of June is now expected to remain open through at least most of the summer while the private equity firm the Carlyle Group negotiates to form a joint venture. Prospects for future gasoline prices in the region have also improved since Delta Air Lines bought an idled Pennsylvania refinery, which will probably produce more gasoline for the market by October.
On the West Coast, however, particularly around Los Angeles, gasoline prices have actually risen in recent weeks because several refineries were forced to suspend operations because of power failures and repairs to compressors. But those problems are expected to be cleared up by June, and energy experts expect prices to ease afterward.
The diverging refinery situations are reflected in the wide gap in gasoline prices from one coast to the other. The average price for regular gasoline on Thursday was $3.92 a gallon in New York but $4.31 a gallon in California.
The national average price for a gallon of regular gasoline on Thursday was $3.67, nearly 30 cents below the high for the year reached in early April. A year ago, the average prices stood at $3.85 a gallon.
Energy analysts say prices this summer should remain a few cents lower than last year but about 75 cents a gallon above the level in the summer of 2010. The economic effect of the lower prices is tentative because prices could easily surge again.
''Compared to 2009 and 2010, these are still stiff prices,'' said Tom Kloza, the chief oil analyst at Oil Price Information Service. ''People talk about this wonderful dividend, but measured against history, gasoline still represents a considerable slice of consumer disposable income.''
Mr. Kloza projected that the national average price for regular gasoline during the Memorial Day weekend would be at most only a few pennies below the current price, and would range from $3.50 to $3.75 for the rest of the summer.
Light sweet crude, the benchmark of New York trading, remained stubbornly above $100 a barrel for most of the last year. In recent weeks it has fallen to just above $90, and remained near that level on Thursday.
The spike in oil prices last year was because of the turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, especially the loss of more than a million barrels a day of high-quality crude from Libya during the insurrection against the Qaddafi dictatorship. After easing for a few months, prices surged again early this year over fears that Iran might block supplies from passing through the Strait of Hormuz in response to tightening European and United States sanctions or the possibility of an Israeli or American attack on Iranian nuclear plants.
The sanctions have reduced Iranian exports, but increased exports from Libya, Saudi Arabia and Iraq have so far more than compensated for the drop-off in China, India and other Asian countries that have relied on supplies from Iran. Total OPEC output of oil and other liquid fuels is at a record high of 37.5 million barrels a day, despite the loss of Iranian exports.
But oil analysts warn that prices could surge again if instability interrupts production in any number of shaky producing nations. Traders were watching how a second round of talks between members of the United Nations Security Council, Germany and Iran would proceed this week, but there appeared to have been little progress. Hopes that Iran would be willing to curb its nuclear program had helped send oil prices lower, but further tightening of sanctions on Iran could send crude prices higher in the months ahead.
''If there are any problems on the supply side, as in Iran, Libya or Nigeria, then prices will be right back up,'' said Michael C. Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research. ''Global inventories are not that high, and production is pretty much flat out in OPEC. A lot depends on how negotiations go with Iran.''
While production in the United States is about a million barrels a day higher than last year, now reaching 5.9 million barrels a day, several other international producers outside of OPEC are not doing nearly as well. Unrest in South Sudan has halted nearly half a million barrels a day of production. Offshore oil spills have dented output in China and Brazil, and production from the North Sea continues to decline.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A gas station in Rutherford, N.J., on Thursday. Prices are down most on the East Coast
 on the West Coast, gasoline is rising. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); GASOLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); POWER FAILURES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); EURO CRISIS (66%); AIRLINES (63%); PRIVATE EQUITY (62%); JOINT VENTURES (50%)

COMPANY: RANGE RESOURCES LTD (57%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (52%)

TICKER: RRS (ASX) (57%); RRL (LSE) (57%); CG (NASDAQ) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%) WEST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



959 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Battle Brewing Over Labeling Of Genetically Modified Food

BYLINE: By AMY HARMON and ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
GREAT BARRINGTON, Mass. -- On a recent sunny morning at the Big Y grocery here, Cynthia LaPier parked her cart in the cereal aisle. With a glance over her shoulder and a quick check of the ingredients, she plastered several boxes with hand-designed stickers from a roll in her purse. ''Warning,'' they read. ''May Contain GMO's (Genetically Modified Organisms).''
For more than a decade, almost all processed foods in the United States -- cereals, snack foods, salad dressings -- have contained ingredients from plants whose DNA was manipulated in a laboratory. Regulators and many scientists say these pose no danger. But as Americans ask more pointed questions about what they are eating, popular suspicions about the health and environmental effects of biotechnology are fueling a movement to require that food from genetically modified crops be labeled, if not eliminated.
Labeling bills have been proposed in more than a dozen states over the last year, and an appeal to the Food and Drug Administration last fall to mandate labels nationally drew more than a million signatures. There is an iPhone app: ShopNoGMO. 
The most closely watched labeling effort is a proposed ballot initiative in California that cleared a crucial hurdle this month, setting the stage for a probable November vote that could influence not just food packaging but the future of American agriculture.
Tens of millions of dollars are expected to be spent on the election showdown. It pits consumer groups and the organic food industry, both of which support mandatory labeling, against more conventional farmers, agricultural biotechnology companies like Monsanto and many of the nation's best-known food brands like Kellogg's and Kraft.
The heightened stakes have added fuel to a long-simmering debate over the merits of genetically engineered crops, which many scientists and farmers believe could be useful in meeting the world's rapidly expanding food needs.
Supporters of labeling argue that consumers have a right to know when food has been modified with genes from another species, which they say is fundamentally different from the selective breeding process used in nearly all crops.
Almost all the corn and soybeans grown in the United States now contain DNA derived from bacteria. The foreign gene makes the soybeans resistant to an herbicide used in weed control, and causes the corn to produce its own insecticide.
''It just makes me nervous when you take genetic matter from something else that wouldn't have been done in nature and put it into food,'' said Ms. LaPier, 44, a mental health counselor whose guerrilla labeling was inspired by the group Label It Yourself. She worries that her daughter, 5, could one day suffer ill effects like allergies.
The F.D.A. has said that labeling is generally not necessary because the genetic modification does not materially change the food.
Farmers, food and biotech companies and scientists say that labels might lead consumers to reject genetically modified food -- and the technology that created it -- without understanding its environmental and economic benefits. A national science advisory organization in 2010 termed those benefits ''substantial,'' noting that existing biotech crops have for years let farmers spray fewer or less harmful chemicals, though the emergence of resistant weeds and insects threatens to blunt that effect.
In a letter circulating on social networks, one Iowa farmer, Tim Burrack, criticized this month's O, the Oprah Magazine, which cited research linking genetic engineering to health concerns that many scientists have discredited and proposed ''5 Ways to Lessen Your Exposure to GMO's.'' Mr. Burrack urged Ms. Winfrey not to ''demonize GM crops.''
But some food experts argue that food manufacturers have an obligation to label. Consumers ''have a right to take genetic modification into consideration,'' said Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University. ''And if the companies think consumer objections are stupid and irrational, they should explain the benefits of their products.''
Until now, Americans have made little fuss about genetically modified crops on the market compared with Europeans, who require that such foods be labeled. Demonstrators in Britain are threatening to destroy some genetically modified wheat being grown in a research trial near London.
The current push for labeling in this country stems in part from a broadening of the genetically modified menu to include herbicide-resistant alfalfa and the possible approval this year of a fast-growing salmon, which would be the first genetically engineered animal in the food supply.
Gary Hirshberg, chairman of Stonyfield Farms, the organic yogurt company, has raised more than $1 million for the Just Label It campaign to influence the F.D.A. after fighting approval of engineered alfalfa, arguing that cross-pollination would contaminate organic crops fed to cows.
''This is an issue of transparency, truth and trust in the food system,'' Mr. Hirshberg said.
Biotechnology companies say that the California labeling initiative, while portrayed as promoting consumer choice, is really an effort by some consumer and environmental groups and organic food growers to drive genetically modified foods off the market.
''These folks are trying to use politics to do what they can't accomplish at the supermarket, which is increase market share,'' said Cathleen Enright, an executive vice president at the Biotechnology Industry Organization, which represents Monsanto and DuPont.
Rather than label food with what consumers might regard as a skull and crossbones, the companies say food producers may ultimately switch to ingredients that are not genetically modified, as they did in Europe.
If the California initiative passes, ''we will be on our way to getting GE-tainted foods out of our nation's food supply for good,'' Ronnie Cummins, director of the Organic Consumers Association, wrote in an letter in March seeking donations for the California ballot initiative. ''If a company like Kellogg's has to print a label stating that their famous Corn Flakes have been genetically engineered, it will be the kiss of death for their iconic brand in California -- the eighth-largest economy in the world -- and everywhere else.''
The Grocery Manufacturers Association, which represents major food brands, declined to comment on what members would do if the California measure passed. But Rick Tolman, chief executive of the National Corn Growers Association, said after meeting with food executives this month that he had the ''strong impression'' that they would rather reformulate their ingredients than label their products genetically engineered. ''They think a label will undermine their brand,'' he said.
When asked if they wanted genetically engineered foods to be labeled, about 9 in 10 Americans said that they did, according to a 2010 Thomson Reuters-NPR poll.
The current call for transparency has resonated among some Americans upset by reports of BPA (a chemical used in plastics) in food packaging and pink slime (an ammonia-treated additive) in meat. Ms. LaPier has made an effort to label Kashi cereals, which advertise themselves as natural, since learning they contain genetically modified soy. Since discovering the Label It Yourself Facebook page in March, she has added several of her own pictures to its gallery of handmade labels on grocery store shelves across the nation.
Depending on the jurisdiction, such labeling could constitute a trademark violation against the manufacturer or a trespass against the store. No one has been prosecuted, but also, no one has been caught, according to a spokesman for the group.
So far, the F.D.A. has said only that it is studying the labeling petition; none of the state-level labeling bills proposed over the last year have passed.
For labeling proponents, California, where the Legislature would be bypassed by a direct popular vote, is the big prize.
A decade ago in Oregon, a similar measure that appeared to have the support of two-thirds of voters was rejected after a last-minute spending blitz by labeling opponents. With the financial backing of the organic industry, labeling supporters in California say they will be better prepared.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (A1)
Using her own stickers, Cynthia LaPier surreptitiously labels foods that she knows contain genetically modified organisms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILANA PANICH-LINSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In San Francisco, a gathering of supporters of a California ballot proposition requiring genetically modified foods to be labeled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (90%); PRODUCT LABELING (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); FOOD LABELING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); DNA (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); HERBICIDES (88%); CROP RESEARCH (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); BACTERIA (76%); ALLERGIES (76%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (76%); FOOD MFG (75%); SOYBEAN FARMING (75%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); FOOD PACKAGING (73%); INSECTICIDES (73%); BALLOTS (66%); REFERENDUMS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%); MENTAL HEALTH (60%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (90%); MONSANTO CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (90%); MON (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (90%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (90%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (90%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



960 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: In Western Washington, Gas Prices Buck the Trend

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
TACOMA, Wash. -- A lot has come down the pike since the summer of 2008, which for many Americans may already feel like the closed chapter of an old book. But here on the West Coast there is an unhappy echo: gasoline prices.
One thin dime separates the current average price of a regular gallon of gas from Tacoma's historic high of $4.37 that was set in late June 2008. And while most Americans have caught a break over the last year, with the average price for a gallon of regular falling 15 cents compared with this time in 2011, in Western Washington it was up 32 cents as of Thursday, according to the Oil Price Information Service, a petroleum-pricing research group. 
A bottleneck in the archipelago of oil refineries that supply the region is the short explanation; some are closed for maintenance, and one here in Washington is temporarily disabled after a fire. The resulting pincers -- a still-tough economy compounded by stinging transportation costs -- have clipped wallets in places like Tacoma, a port city south of Seattle still tied to the world of timber and shipping.
A few hours chatting around the pumps at a local gas stop on Monday underscored the pain.
''Things are a little, little bit better than they were,'' said Dennis Barker, a former construction worker who started a home-renovation business about a month ago with a friend. ''But I'm spending more -- I'm going around trying to drum up some business,'' he said. The $50 a week he spends on gasoline imposes strict efficiencies, Mr. Barker said, on everything else.
For people on fixed or reduced incomes, lingering high prices create a ripple that changes patterns of life in many ways, large and small. David Moceri, who was laid off this spring from a mattress factory, now buys no more than $10 of gasoline at a time. Harvey Johnson, a self-employed handyman, used to carry his handyman tools in a pickup truck from job to job.
Now he stuffs it all in his Honda, a ladder jutting from the back-seat windows like an afterthought.
''Half as much gas,'' he said.
Roy Harris is a retired metal-plating worker and passionate cyclist -- 100 miles a week or more at age 72, and three times on the 200-mile Seattle-to-Portland Classic. But he no longer drives to the trails he once loved with his bicycle in the back of his truck, and instead just rides around his neighborhood.
''We've cut our driving down, probably in half,'' said Mr. Harris, whose primary income is the Social Security checks that he and his wife receive. ''Gas has really killed us.''
A spokesman for AAA Washington, Dave Overstreet, said that spring can often be the cruelest season for gasoline on the West Coast, which is largely cut off from the pipeline and refining system that spiders up from the Gulf of Mexico. The Cascade Range here in the Pacific Northwest and the Sierra Nevada in California mark a kind of boundary from the rest of the nation, he said, in gasoline economics.
Refineries in California also routinely reduce production in the spring, preparing for the summer fuel blends mandated by California regulators. And supplies in Washington and Oregon have been further crimped by the shutdown of Washington's biggest refinery -- Cherry Point, owned by the oil giant BP -- after a fire in February. A spokesman for BP said on Tuesday that the plant was restarting, but would take some time to resume full production.
In any event, demand also usually goes up in late May, Memorial Day being the unofficial launching pad of the vacation driving season, putting supply and demand back in collision.
''Once they get up and running again, even with the demand being higher, I think that we'll certainly see things stabilize,'' Mr. Overstreet said. How long before prices actually go back down? ''Anybody's guess,'' he said.
Some drivers here in Tacoma say they have just stopped counting the whirring nickels and dimes. Others say they believe that the slowly improving economy, still spotty in its gains, will pick up. The local unemployment rate in Tacoma has actually risen in recent months, to 9.8 percent in March from 8.8 percent last November, according to federal figures, even as the statewide rate and the broader Seattle metro area jobless rates have continued to fall.
''You have to get gas either way,'' said Robin Senirajjangkul, 23, who is studying at a local community college and tending bar to make ends meet. ''But I do love my Yaris,'' she said, patting her Toyota compact, which looked ready for the road with its big fuzzy steering wheel. ''Good gas mileage,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Holloway, 46, in Tacoma, Wash. He said high pump prices had limited his store trips. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TRENDS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



961 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: How to Stop Wildlife Poachers

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH L. BENNETT. 
Elizabeth L. Bennett is vice president for species conservation at the Wildlife Conservation Society.

 BODY:
OVER the past 20 years, chimpanzees, gorillas and other great apes have declined the most in areas lacking a security force to protect them. Conversely, parks and protected areas with armed guards and anti-poaching patrols -- places like Nouabale-Ndoki National Park in the Republic of Congo, Kahuzi-Biega National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Volcanoes National Park in Rwanda -- have not only retained their ape populations, but have seen population increases.
This connection extends beyond great apes. The Albertine Rift in Central Africa has over the past 50 years demonstrated the benefits of a close tie between law enforcement and the survival of diverse species. In Asia, the government's training and deployment of park guards in Thailand's most important reserve, the Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary, has led to seven years of population stability in tigers and other wildlife, in contrast to dramatic declines in nearby unprotected parks. 
This only makes sense. We don't leave our valuables unprotected. Guards patrol art galleries and museums to secure our cultural heritage. We should be taking the same approach to safeguarding our natural heritage.
The urgency for the training and deployment of guards to protect wildlife across the globe could not be greater. Only last November, Africa's western black rhino officially became extinct. Wild tiger numbers are down to 3,200 from over 100,000 a century ago. Roughly half of Africa's elephants have been killed for the ivory trade since 1987. Sadly, the list goes on.
The most effective protection inevitably involves the long-term efforts of committed park rangers patrolling protected areas with the endorsement and support of local communities. Wildlife guards are deployed by the national governments, which gives them the legal authority and mandate to operate and, in some cases, the core financing to do so. Other agencies work in partnership with those governments to give them both technical and financial support to combat poaching.
Nevertheless, for many poorer governments striving against the odds to protect their wildlife, outside support for salaries, vehicles and equipment is crucial. At present, support (not including weapons) comes largely from nongovernmental organizations, with their generous private donors, and from national government agencies like the United States Agency for International Development and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. More money -- and the resulting increase in the number and effectiveness of guards -- is crucial to the survival of many species targeted by poachers.
Fortunately, relatively small investments can have big impacts. In Thailand's Huai Kha Khaeng reserve, 200 rangers cover an area of 1,073 square miles for an annual cost of under $5,000 per ranger. The government pays salaries and, with assistance from the Wildlife Conservation Society, provides rations, equipment and training. Two poachers were sentenced last summer to the longest prison terms to date in Thailand for a wildlife crime -- one for four years and the other for five. No high-value poaching episode has occurred in the reserve since.
In the Republic of Congo's Ndoki National Park, the conservation society's support for ecoguards over two decades has been essential for the protection of what is arguably Africa's most pristine rain forest -- home to critical populations of gorillas, forest elephants and chimpanzees so unacquainted with humans that they approach their fellow primates with no fear. Rangers in Ndoki also enforce agreements that the government has made with logging companies to ensure that hunting and the bushmeat trade do not follow.
These rangers toil in landscapes that are frequently remote, physically tough and dangerous.
Until we provide the resources and security to safeguard the world's great natural treasures, populations of great apes and countless other species will slowly wink out across the world, and our awe-inspiring natural heritage, the product of millions of years of evolution, will continue its slide into oblivion.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GEORGE BATES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); WILDLIFE (91%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (91%); PRIMATES (91%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); MAMMALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRISONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WILD CATS (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); SENTENCING (61%); POPULATION GROWTH (56%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RWANDA (92%); THAILAND (91%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



962 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Class of 2012 in Qatar Savors the College Station Connection

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
DOHA, Qatar -- On the day before his college graduation here, Thamer al-Kuwari wore the white robe and headdress that are customary for men in his native Qatar. But on his finger, he wore something special: an Aggie Ring, the traditional accessory of a proud Texas A&M University alumnus, which he was about to become.
Mr. Kuwari's enthusiasm for Texas A&M may, at first blush, seem strong for someone who spent a mere four months studying in College Station. ''Ever since I joined the Aggie family,'' he said, ''I've loved it with every part of my heart.''
Such is the extent to which students at Texas A&M University at Qatar consider themselves connected to the main A&M campus, more than 8,000 miles away. The Class of 2012 in Qatar boasted 87 students from 23 countries. They were required to complete the same coursework that they would at the main campus, including lessons in American and Texas history and government. The courses, taught in English, were coed, common at most Texas colleges, but a new experience for many in their first year. 
As of 2011, A&M's Qatar campus had nearly 140 active research projects totaling more than $96 million. In terms of producing graduates and securing research financing, A&M is now the highest-performing university involved in Education City, a 2,500-acre site on the edge of Doha that is dedicated to elite higher education. A&M officials said their involvement puts the university at the forefront of international education. (Texas A&M is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
R. Bowen Loftin, A&M's president, said the university is involved because of the students' ability to represent Aggies internationally. ''Ten years from now, they are going to be ministers of state and C.E.O.'s of major companies, the major drivers of that part of the world, not just Qatar,'' he said. ''This is Texas A&M's contribution to that leadership development.''
Enrollment has ballooned at A&M's Qatar campus, to 524 in spring 2012 from 29 in fall 2003, when it opened. The first graduating class, in December 2007, consisted of just two Qatari women. After this year's record-breaking number of graduates, administrators expect enrollment to begin to plateau.
''This is kind of the top of the mountain that we've reached,'' Mr. Loftin said.
Education City is the hallmark project of the Qatar Foundation, a nonprofit organization established in 1995 by the country's ruling emir, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, and led by his second wife, Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser al-Missned, who is widely recognized as the driving force behind efforts to convert the gas-rich nation into a knowledge-based society.
Six American universities -- A&M, Georgetown, Carnegie Mellon, Northwestern, Virginia Commonwealth and Weill Cornell Medical College -- have a presence here. A&M currently offers engineering degrees. The invitation to open a branch specializing in engineering degrees -- the only ones A&M currently offers in Qatar -- was first extended to the University of Texas, but U.T. declined to participate.
Because A&M is a public institution, no financing or tuition revenue from Texas can be used toward the effort in Qatar. All expenses, including the tab for the $150 million marble building that houses the A&M campus, are paid for by the Qatar Foundation, which has abundant resources.
Unlike some American universities that floundered after they came to the region and had to pull up stakes -- like Michigan State University and George Mason University in the United Arab Emirates -- A&M does not have to generate the revenue to support itself.
''Not many countries have that level of resource, and even if they did, they might not want to invest it, as Qatar Foundation has, in education,'' said Mark Weichold, the dean and chief executive of A&M's Qatar campus.
Qatar's decision to pour resources into brand-name universities has occasionally met with skepticism in the region. In 2009, Virginia Aksan, a McMaster University professor who was then the president of the Middle East Studies Association, described Education City as ''the marketing of an imagined education'' and warned of the proliferation of ''profit-motive teaching environments'' abroad.
''Texas A&M is not in this for making a profit,'' Mr. Weichold said, ''but we can't lose anything either.''
The university and its officials are contractually barred from revealing the specifics of the exchange between the Qatar Foundation and Texas A&M.
Karan L. Watson, A&M's provost and executive vice president for academic affairs, acknowledged that per-student financing in Qatar is significantly higher than in College Station. ''They are good partners,'' she said of the foundation, ''and on top of being sure they have covered all the expenses, they give us a little bit on top of that every year.''
She conceded that, while not a major driver, the ''little bit on top'' is more than the $4.5 million profit that Houston Community College projects it will make over five years as a result of a deal with Qatar's Supreme Education Council to open the country's first community college.
In College Station, that money helps the colleges involved in the Qatar campus -- liberal arts, science and engineering -- and it also helps support study abroad programs and other strategic investments, like start-up financing for hiring faculty members.
Through the arrangement, A&M also gains access to one of the world's most plentiful sources of research money. Qatar has committed to spending 2.8 percent of its annual gross domestic product -- about $1.5 billion -- on research financing, primarily distributed by the Qatar National Research Fund, which allows up to 35 percent of a financed project to be conducted outside the country.
It took time to get A&M's research started in a country that did not previously have a strong culture of academic research. The university did not have its own facilities until 2007. Professors in Qatar -- several came from the main campus, though A&M quickly realized it would have to hire permanent Doha faculty -- noted the extra time required to import materials and set up their labs, which are subject to Texas' rules and regulations as well as Qatar's.
''There's no routine here,'' said Eyad Masad, the assistant dean for research and graduate studies in Qatar. ''Every company you deal with is a new mind-set, a new contract, new expectations. In Texas, things have already been developed.''
Other established academic practices have had to be reworked similarly. The Qatar Foundation was not comfortable with the notion of tenure, so it developed a rolling contract system, in which a professor's guaranteed length of employment could increase over time.
With the initial 10-year agreement quickly coming to a close, officials at A&M said the benefits to both the Aggies and the Qataris have exceeded expectations, and they have already begun to plan for the next 10 years.
New programs are in the works, and a master's program in chemical engineering, one of Education City's few graduate programs, was recently added.
Now that Mr. Kuwari is graduating from A&M, he plans to work at Qatar's Interior Ministry. He said he would always be a proud member of the global Aggie community. ''From the first day, I wanted to be a part of it,'' he said. ''We live as one person. We all have the same values. We all share the same things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A&M students in Doha are required to complete the same coursework that they would at the main campus, including lessons in American and Texas history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMRE RENDE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)
 A&M may be the top-performing university involved in Education City, a 2,500-acre site dedicated to elite higher education. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TEXAS A&M QATAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: MOZAH BINT NASSER AL-MISSNED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) QATAR (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



963 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Power Player in a Risky Bet on Moviegoing

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA; Zhang Wei contributed research from Beijing and Gu Huini from Shanghai.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Hollywood studios, facing steep challenges in the North American movie market, are taking more interest in China.
The Walt Disney Company and Marvel Studios, a division of Disney's Marvel Entertainment subsidiary, are producing ''Iron Man 3'' in China. News Corporation recently bought a stake in the Bona Film Group in Beijing. And an agreement with Chinese authorities will allow more American companies to distribute more movies and reap a greater share of the box office in China, the world's fastest-growing economy.
But at least one billionaire businessman is betting that the American movie market is still the ticket to international success. And he is Chinese.
Wang Jianlin, a rags-to-riches tycoon, is taking over AMC Entertainment, North America's second-largest movie theater chain behind Regal Entertainment. And he is promising to integrate it into a new, made in China, global brand called the Wanda Group. 
Mr. Wang, 57, is regarded as one of the most successful Chinese real estate tycoons. His $17 billion empire includes huge commercial property developments, five-star hotels, tourist resorts, a film and television production company and Asia's largest cinema network.
Now, by paying $2.6 billion to acquire AMC, the Wanda Group is extending its reach globally. The deal, announced Sunday, is still subject to the approval of United States regulators, though there are no hints it will be blocked. The purchase signifies a new era for Mr. Wang and in China's development. Companies here are moving away from low-cost manufacturing and going abroad in search of natural resources and global consumer brands, part of an effort to upgrade the nation's economy.
In an interview at his spacious headquarters in Beijing, Mr. Wang, the Wanda chairman, said he was pondering his next international destination: Europe.
''We're already negotiating,'' he said.
Wanda is a private company in a nation dominated by state-owned enterprises. But the AMC deal is closely aligned with the Chinese government's priorities, which include encouraging Chinese companies to ''go global,'' pushing an overhaul of Chinese media and entertainment properties and placing greater emphasis on consumer spending.
Policy makers in Beijing also want to bolster China's ''soft power'' capabilities to extend its cultural influence internationally, and the film industry is considered one of the most promising avenues for doing so.
But whether Wanda, a 24-year-old enterprise with little international experience, can make a success of such a big acquisition and create a global property and entertainment brand is debatable, analysts say.
''China has great entrepreneurs,'' says Duncan Clark, chairman of BDA China, a Beijing-based investment advisory firm. ''But the question is: How will they take these companies international? Are they going to be willing to learn and adapt?''
One of the biggest experiments in this area is being undertaken by Mr. Wang, a former army officer who has turned a tiny real estate venture into a national brand. Wanda, which started in Dalian, a northeastern city, and moved its headquarters to Wanda Plaza in Beijing, is a colossus with 183 million square feet of land under development or operation.
In 1988, Mr. Wang -- who entered the army at 15, after middle school -- says he left a job as a local government official in Dalian and borrowed $80,000 to start a business he now describes as a ''sprinting elephant.''
Wang Yongping, founder of the China Commercial Real Estate Association, described the chairman of Wanda as usually a step ahead of other Chinese real estate barons.
''He always has a vision,'' Mr. Wang, no relation, said. ''When everybody was doing housing property, he jumped out to focus on commercial property. When everybody was chasing commercial property, he was eyeing culture and tourism -- the industries that the government is stressing and cultivating.''
That few Chinese companies have managed to establish global brands is of little concern to Wanda's chairman. And buying a stake in a company focused on a quintessentially American experience -- moviegoing -- seemed hardly daunting for a man who survived the Cultural Revolution, a period of social and political madness in China.
''In setting goals and executing a strategy, Wanda is sophisticated,'' said Mr. Wang, the Wanda chairman. ''We have good systems and departments. If targets are not reached, a yellow light goes off.''
Mr. Wang usually hits his targets, he says. The company has experienced 30 percent growth in the last year, even in a down market. And he promises that by 2015 the Wanda Group will have overall revenue of about $30 billion.
Which raises the question: Why invest in the United States cinema market at a time of weakness, when box office receipts are sluggish and American film producers are looking to China?
Some analysts have suggested that Mr. Wang's acquisition of AMC was political, an effort to curry favor with Chinese leaders, who are pushing their nation to enhance its influence by exporting cultural products. Others contend that Mr. Wang is eager to establish himself as China's first global corporate chief.
''This is kind of a statement deal for him,'' said an executive familiar with the Wanda-AMC talks, but not authorized to discuss them. ''He's coming out of China, and this is an area he has great interest in. He kept emphasizing he just wants to learn how cinemas are operated in the U.S. It's not just about the money.''
But to pull off the deal, Wanda needed plenty of that: more than $3 billion in cash, including $500 million it has promised to invest in AMC in North America. Financing such a big deal in a tough credit environment, and with China's property market in a slump, was some feat. In the end, much of the cash came from China's big, state-controlled banks.
To ensure that the deal succeeds, Mr. Wang said he would keep AMC's management in place with long-term pay incentives, and invest heavily in renovating older American theaters in an effort to bolster revenue.
Asked whether AMC would show films that the Chinese government found offensive, such as one dealing with the contentious issue of rebellions in Tibet, Mr. Wang said he would not interfere with decisions by his management team in the United States.
He also dismissed speculation in China that his ties to Bo Xilai, the fallen Politburo leader who also got his start in Dalian, could harm the Wanda Group.
''We knew each other, and were very familiar with one another,'' he said. ''But it was just a working relationship. There was no personal relationship.'' He said the government had not asked to investigate the group.
Throughout the interview, Mr. Wang -- who spoke calmly and quietly, and occasionally twirled his thumbs -- said he was focusing on targets and executing strategies, fast.
Buying a Hollywood movie studio was not planned, he said, but he would not rule it out. Hotels and American shopping malls are more likely targets, he said.
''We don't have the strategy to go global in real estate,'' he said. ''But for globalization and going out, we would like to buy hotels and hotel management companies. We also like department stores.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wang Jianlin, chairman of the Wanda Group, in Beijing. He is seen as one of China's most successful real estate tycoons. (B1)
In addition to Asia's largest cinema network, the Wanda empire includes hotels, resorts, and a film and TV production company. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Wanda is paying $2.6 billion for AMC Entertainment, including this theater in Los Angeles, to extend its reach globally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (88%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); RESORTS (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (93%); NEWS CORP (72%); BONA FILM GROUP LTD (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (93%); NWS (NASDAQ) (72%); NWS (ASX) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD T CLARK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ASIA (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



964 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: In a Mixed Day, the Dow Finishes Up

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks were mired in a narrow range and finished mixed on Thursday as Hewlett-Packard announced layoffs, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average for just the fourth time this month.
Stocks flipped between gains and losses throughout the day after a meeting of European leaders failed to deliver new steps to ease the region's debt crisis.
The Dow closed up 33.60 points, or 0.27 percent, at 12,529.75. Fears that Europe's troubles could turn into a worldwide financial crisis have pushed the 30-stock average down 5 percent this month. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 1.82 points, or 0.14 percent, to 1,320.68. The Nasdaq composite index fell 10.74 points, or 0.38 percent, to 2,839.38.
Economic news in the United States gave traders little direction. Orders for long-lasting factory goods edged up in April, but a main category that tracks business investment spending fell for the second month in a row. The number of people applying for unemployment benefits declined last week.
The potential for bad news to upset markets is so high that many investors would prefer to sit it out, said Stephen Carl, head equity trader at the Williams Capital Group.
''Uncertainty is playing a big part here,'' Mr. Carl said. ''You don't know which way things are going to go.''
Hewlett-Packard, the maker of personal computers and printers, rose 3.27 percent Thursday, to $21.77, after announcing after the close of trading on Wednesday that it plans to eliminate 27,000 employees, or 7.7 percent of the company's payroll. The company expects the layoffs, part of a turnaround program under the chief executive, Meg Whitman, to save $3 billion or more.
European leaders wrapped up their latest summit meeting Thursday with no new concrete steps to address Europe's financial crisis, even as worries rise about a messy Greek exit from the euro currency union.
Markets in Europe recovered from a sell-off on Wednesday. The DAX in Germany increased 0.48 percent and the CAC 40 in France rose 1.16 percent.
Fears that Greece will drop the euro and set off a wider financial crisis have driven traders out of stocks and into the Treasury market this month. The surge in demand for Treasuries has knocked yields to new lows.
As a result, the federal government has been borrowing from bond markets at ever cheaper rates. The Treasury auctioned seven-year notes Thursday afternoon at 1.2 percent, the lowest rate on record.
In the daily market the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32, to 99 23/32, and the yield rose to 1.78 percent from 1.73 percent late Wednesday.
Airline stocks surged. Analysts at JPMorgan Chase expect a drop in jet fuel prices to lift profits at airlines. The US Airways Group jumped 10.55 percent, to $12.16, and Delta Air Lines rose 4.93 percent, to $11.27. Southwest Airlines climbed 4.55 percent, to $8.74, after the company said it planned to offer international flights from Hobby Airport in Houston.
Among other stocks making big moves, Tiffany & Company fell 6.81 percent, to $57.59, after cutting its 2012 sales forecast, citing slower spending growth in the United States and other countries.
The data-storage company NetApp sank 12.29 percent, to $28.82. NetApp expects weaker profit in the current quarter as a result of ''increasing uncertainty'' in the global economy.
Pandora Media surged 12.29 percent, to $11.60, after the online radio provider reported a smaller quarterly loss than analysts had expected. Ad sales and subscriptions soared from the previous year. Pandora said it accounted for nearly 6 percent of all radio listening in the United States.
The Costco Wholesale Corporation rose 1.4 percent, to $84.48, after it announced that net income in its fiscal third quarter climbed 19 percent, better than analysts had expected.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday (Source: Bloomberg)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (71%); FUEL MARKETS (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (61%); EURO (61%); JET FUEL (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



965 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: A Mining Rush in the Upper Peninsula

BYLINE: By EMILY LAMBERT

 BODY:
IRONWOOD, Mich. -- On the far northern reaches of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, James Jacques drove on a rutted logging road to an old mining shaft surrounded by a chain-link fence.
Dug in the 1950s, the shaft was briefly active when copper-bearing rocks were discovered there. Sixty years later, Mr. Jacques is tasked with finishing the job by digging a new mine 900 feet down.
''From my perspective, it's a once in a lifetime opportunity,'' said Mr. Jacques, who works for a subsidiary of Orvana Minerals, a Canadian-based mining company.
This remote area of Michigan, long ago left for dead, is rediscovering its mining roots -- raising hopes here and across much of the Lake Superior region that a mining revival is in the making. With copper and other metals trading on commodities markets at consistently high prices, companies are digging into long-neglected deposits for metals that could be worth billions of dollars. 
Rio Tinto, the world's largest mining company after BHP Billiton,is working on a $469 million mine that will produce nickel and copper. Hudbay Minerals, a public mining company, is leading an expected $225 million project to mine precious and heavy metals, including gold, silver, zinc and copper. Orvana has received approval to mine chalcocite, a mineral that is primarily copper, in a project here that the company says will create $2 billion in economic activity over 20 years.
Smaller exploration firms are joining the rush too, searching for new ore deposits and studying known ones. One of them, Highland Resources of Vancouver, British Columbia, is spending $11.5 million to explore and develop potential mines, including two copper mines near Calumet, Mich.
''The price of copper has held up even in the face of a worldwide economic downturn,'' said Dr. Ross R. Grunwald, vice president for exploration for Highland. Regardless of recent dips in the market, Dr. Grunwald predicted worldwide demand and a looming shortage will send prices even higher.
Analysts say prices for metals like copper and zinc, as well as for iron ore, are likely to remain strong enough to warrant the flurry of projects. The JPMorgan metals and mining analyst Michael F. Gambardella said that even if some prices were to fall, factors like the low cost of making steel in the Midwest make mining in the region attractive for ''quite some time.''
There are worries about the environmental fallout of the new mining, and about how sustainable a mining-led recovery might be. But supporters of the new ventures want this to be a welcome homecoming for an industry that shaped the region. From the 1840s to the 1880s, the Upper Peninsula turned out most of the country's copper and, by 1880, a large chunk of its iron ore. Newspapers, cities, roads and parks still bear the names of miners, minerals, mining companies and other things related to mining.
Evidence of the new mining activity is already visible. East of here, in Marquette County, towns like Big Bay have seen an increase in construction and temporary workers renting hotel rooms and homes. In Marquette -- the largest city in the Upper Peninsula, with 21,000 residents -- the Border Grill restaurant owner Dan Torres estimates that the Rio Tinto mine is increasing monthly sales by $500 to $1,000. Rio Tinto will make its first tax payment this July and is expected to pay $4.3 million to local authorities.
The enthusiasm for mines to reopen is especially palpable here in Ironwood, where dozens of iron ore mines once employed thousands of people. Most everyone in town had fathers or grandfathers who worked in the mines, and some residents worked there themselves. Many recall that the downtown used to be so full on Friday nights that the police would be needed to control traffic.
A mural in the municipal building shows a panoramic view of the once-bustling city. A small, dusty museum in an old train depot is full of miners' clothes, tools and discoveries, including a block of iron ore.
But by the time the last of the mining companies departed in the 1960s, Ironwood had lost nearly half its residents and the bulk of its economic foundation. The population now stands at just under 5,400, and unemployment in Gogebic County, which includes Ironwood, is 10.7 percent.
While some people have steady jobs in logging, manufacturing or at nursing homes, many residents patch together seasonal jobs by working at ski hills and painting houses. Many men have left for North or South Dakota to work at oil fields, leaving families behind.
The hope is that mining will bring some of those people back. Signs in some windows and on the highway into town proclaim support for the new mining wave. Orvana has yet to put a shovel in the ground, but it has received hundreds of resumes, many dropped off by people who had left town and were back visiting family.
Marquette County, in addition to the Rio Tinto mine, is buoyed by Northern Michigan University and two surviving iron ore mines, among other things, so it does not share the unemployment problems of Gogebic County. But other erstwhile mining counties are in even worse shape. In April, the unemployment rate in Ontonagon County was 13.9 percent, in Keweenaw 12.9 percent and in Baraga 16.3 percent. By comparison, the statewide rate was 8.3 percent.
''We desperately need good-paying jobs for this area,'' said Keith Johnson, director for the western Upper Peninsula region at the Michigan Works agency. ''It might be just 10 or 15 years, but it's going to be 10 or 15 years that we can truly enjoy.''
In the woods outside of Marquette, Rio Tinto last fall started blasting to reach an ore body that was identified in 2002 and is as much as 1,000 feet below the surface.
The mine's footprint is a 130-acre, secure construction zone. Rio Tinto cleared all the trees except on a rocky outcrop sacred to a local Native American tribe, and has put up facilities including a water treatment plant. Next to the outcrop is a long, dark tunnel wide enough to accommodate a truck.
On a brisk day in April, red-clad miners drove a piece of heavy machinery called a rock bolter to the end of the tunnel and used automatic arms to pound in bolts and affix industrial-strength netting to the walls and ceiling to prevent rockfalls.
Rio Tinto plans to start pulling ore out in 2013. Adam Burley, president of Rio Tinto's Kennecott Eagle Minerals subsidiary, was transferred from London to oversee the operation. He said the company hopes to develop more mines nearby and has a ''portfolio of advanced, encouraging targets.''
Some 150 miles south, Hudbay Minerals, working with the public exploration company Aquila Resources, expects to apply this year for permits for a mine that the companies estimate would create hundreds of jobs and generate $27 million in taxes.
The economic risk of the new efforts is that mining could be a temporary fix. Orvana, for example, plans to run its mine here in Ironwood for 13 years; it would need an additional seven years for construction and reclamation. After that, it is anyone's guess.
''I think people in fact have significantly exaggerated expectations in terms of what mining is likely to do for the local economy,'' said Thomas M. Power, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Montana, who spent summers as child in this region. He warned that mining towns never succeed in the long term and would be better off diversifying in other ways.
There are environmental risks as well. Some are concerned the mining could hurt waterways and especially Lake Superior, the largest freshwater lake in the world by surface area. A collection of environmental groups said that state and provincial laws, and enforcement, are inconsistent and inadequate.
In Michigan, mining companies submit internal environmental assessments to the state. But Michigan does not require a more stringent environmental impact statement that would involve third parties. And so far federal oversight has been largely delegated to the state.
The Keweenaw Bay Indian Community, concerned about the pollution, has asked the United Nations to investigate. The United States in 2010 endorsed the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, which recognizes the rights of natives to protect their lands and resources.
''No entity is really looking at all of these impacts at any one mine, much less all the impacts across the whole basin and really thinking about what would this mean for the region and Lake Superior, the headwaters of the Great Lakes,'' said Michelle Halley, a lawyer for the National Wildlife Federation, which is one of several parties suing to stop the Rio Tinto mine. The group has made suggestions on how Orvana could make its plans more environmentally friendly.
Just over the state line in Wisconsin, Gogebic Taconite dropped a proposed $1.5 billion, open-pit iron ore project after lawmakers failed to adopt a bill that critics say would have relaxed environmental regulations and limited public input in the permitting process.
Gogebic Taconite is now drilling for iron in Michigan.
''It's great that it'll cause jobs,'' said David Hill, 29, an Ironwood resident who is out of work. ''I'm just hoping they'll do it safely. That's No. 1. Sometimes it's not about money, but what are you doing to the land that you live on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A miner operating a drilling machine about 180 feet below ground at the Kennecott Eagle mine near Marquette, Mich. Kennecott is a Rio Tinto subsidiary (B1)
A recharging station at Rio Tinto's Kennecott Eagle mine in Marquette provides power to the workers' flashlights.
 In the tunnel of the Kennecott Eagle mine, a large duct system supplies fresh air to the miners. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHARTS: A Bull Market for Many Metals: Copper, gold and silver prices are much higher than they were in the mid-2000s, while zinc and nickel are well off their prefinancial crisis levels (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (91%); COPPER MINING (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); NICKEL MINING (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (78%); COPPER MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (77%); BASE METALS MARKETS (77%); COPPER INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SILVER MARKETS (74%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LAKES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); APPROVALS (66%)

COMPANY: BHP BILLITON PLC (91%); HUDBAY MINERALS INC (90%); RIO TINTO GROUP (90%); PUBLIC MINING CO LTD (68%); ORVANA MINERALS CORP (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (91%); BIBLT (JSE) (91%); BBL (NYSE) (91%); HBM (TSX) (90%); HBM (NYSE) (90%); RIOS (BRU) (90%); RIO (NYSE) (90%); RIO (LSE) (90%); RIO (ASX) (90%); ORV (TSX) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (91%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (91%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (91%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (91%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (90%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (90%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (90%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (90%); NAICS212321 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL MINING (68%); SIC1442 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL (68%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (57%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



966 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: China Output Slows Sharply; Ripples Feared

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
XI'AN, China -- A nationwide real estate downturn, stalling exports and declining consumer confidence have produced what a Chinese cabinet adviser, quoted on the official government Web site on Thursday, characterized as a ''sharp slowdown in the economy.''
Though the Chinese economy continues to expand, construction workers are losing jobs in droves and retail sales grew last month at the slowest pace in more than three years. Investments in fixed assets have increased more slowly this year than in any year since 2001.
The most striking feature of the slowdown is that it extends beyond the coastal provinces, which depend on exports and are closely linked to the global economy, to the country's far more insular interior, including cities like Xi'an here in northwestern China.
China's unexpected economic difficulties are starting to unnerve investors in world markets, especially commodity markets, as China is the world's largest consumer of most raw materials and the second-largest consumer of oil. 
A deepening slowdown would ripple across the world economy. Until now, China's economy barreled ahead mostly unhindered as the main engine of global growth, even as Europe struggled with its government debt crisis and the United States limped along with a crippled housing market.
Government indexes show real estate prices are falling in more than half of the country's top 70 urban markets, Xi'an among them. Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's each issued reports on Thursday warning that many of China's real estate developers face a severe cash squeeze as apartment sales slow to a crawl. The developers still owe heavy interest payments on bank loans.
''Weak property developers in China are likely to face a test of their survival this year,'' S.& P. said.
China's economy was 8.1 percent larger in the first quarter of this year than a year earlier, but virtually all of that growth took place last year. The economy barely grew in the first quarter compared with the fourth quarter of 2011, and the second quarter of this year is likely to show even less growth from the preceding quarter, said Diana Choyleva, a China economist in the Hong Kong office of Lombard Street Research.
The World Bank also warned on Wednesday of a slowdown.
''Clearly the economy is much, much weaker than most people thought until recently,'' Ms. Choyleva said. ''They have a real mess on their hands.''
China is the world's largest importer of a long list of commodities, like iron ore and copper. It has also been a big buyer of European factory equipment and luxury goods. The United States economy is much less exposed to a slowdown in the Chinese economy, with exports of goods to China representing less than 0.7 percent of American economic output last year.
Benefiting from heavy government spending on highways and other infrastructure and voracious demand for apartments as poor laborers arrived from the countryside, China's inland cities had continued to expand even when the rest of the world's economy fell into serious difficulty in late 2008 and early 2009. But now the economic troubles are evident here in Xi'an, an economic cornerstone of northwestern China that serves as one of the country's largest transportation and distribution hubs and a manufacturing center for everything from bulldozers to aircraft components.
Sun Yufang, a wholesale dealer in Xi'an in ovens, ranges and water heaters, said that residents had nearly stopped outfitting new apartments or redecorating old ones.
''We didn't really feel the global financial crisis, but this year, we've really felt it -- I don't see a solution unless people start buying,'' Ms. Sun said, sitting in a spacious shop with no customers in sight.
Premier Wen Jiabao expressed concern last weekend about the economy after an inspection tour to Wuhan in east-central China. He then led a cabinet meeting on Wednesday that produced the government's strongest statement yet.
The government should ''place stabilizing growth in a more important position and carry out pre-emptive policy adjustments and fine-tuning more forcefully according to the changing situation,'' the cabinet statement said.
An explanatory statement from the official Xinhua news agency drafted on Wednesday and posted on the Chinese government's Web site on Thursday cited Zhang Liqun, a senior economist advising the cabinet, as saying that, ''the sharp slowdown in the economy has aroused attention from policy makers.''
A preliminary reading of a monthly purchasing managers index showed that manufacturing had continued to weaken in May, with the index falling to 48.7 from 49.3 in April; a figure below 50 indicates a slowing sector.
The cabinet called for stimulating the economy through faster construction of railroads, schools, clinics and other infrastructure. With the Chinese economy still heavily dependent on investment spending, some economists are optimistic that China can quickly reignite growth.
''When you've got state banks lending to state enterprises to implement the state's five-year plan, you don't have a lot of downside to investment,'' said Paul Gruenwald, a former International Monetary Fund official in Hong Kong who is now the chief Asia economist at ANZ, one of Australia's biggest banks.
China has the financial resources to expand government spending sharply. China has a low ratio of debt to economic output, even when sizable local government debts are added to the national debt. Chinese banks have among the world's lowest rates of loans to deposits, although some banking analysts have questioned whether many loans by state-owned banks to politically influential borrowers will be repaid.
But with the country having finished building much of its infrastructure, it is having a harder time finding further projects that can pass cost-benefit analyses. The Chinese interior has been the biggest beneficiary of infrastructure spending over the last decade, but now shows signs of catching up with the more developed coast.
The Xi'an airport opened a third terminal and another runway on May 3, giving it the capacity to handle as many passengers as John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, despite considerably smaller daily traffic. Bullet trains connect Xi'an to Zhengzhou, nearly 300 miles to the east, while no fewer than three concentric beltways encircle Xi'an, although traffic jams continue to bedevil the ancient city's core.
One more big infrastructure project remains: the city opened its first subway line late last year, plans to finish a second line later this year and has begun construction on a third. But crisscross the city these days and there are fewer streets torn up for building projects than in the past.
At the same time, residential real estate construction has slowed sharply after the government imposed a stringent ban last year on the purchase of multiple homes in an effort to discourage speculation and make housing more affordable. Wei Li, a real estate broker in downtown Xi'an, said that prices had fallen 20 percent since the start of this year for new apartments in the hundreds of towers under construction on the city's periphery, but she said downtown real estate prices were stable. Construction material vendors here, however, say that apartment prices are also falling in downtown neighborhoods.
Developers across the country have responded to the drop in prices by abandoning the longstanding practice of floodlighting construction sites and working around the clock. They have cut back to one daytime shift, sharply reducing the demand for construction workers.
''It's getting harder and harder to find work,'' complained Li Bo, a construction worker here.
Xi'an is best known in the West as an ancient capital of China, a Silk Road entrepot that is home to the terra-cotta warriors. But modern-day Xi'an also plays an important role in the Chinese economy as a regional economic hub with eight million residents.
Store owners and other traders from across northwestern China converge at large covered markets here to buy goods, making Xi'an one of the best places to take the pulse of China's interior. And now, that pulse feels weak for consumer spending.
Until late March, Ma Xiechuan sold pork at his butcher shop here by hacking large chunks and handing them to lines of customers to take home and carefully slice and dice. But with sales now down by a third, he has so much extra time that he deftly wields his steel cleaver to produce thin slivers, ready for the customer's wok.
''It's the fastest downturn in business I've seen in more than 10 years here,'' Mr. Ma said.
Yian Leilei, a wholesaler of tablecloths and car seat covers, said that sales nose-dived after Chinese New Year on Jan. 23 and had not recovered. Wang Heiyen, a wholesaler of insulated food and beverage containerssaid his sales were sliding steadily and customers were becoming ever pickier. Ding Lei, the co-owner of a paint and plaster store said his sales had halved since the start of this year. ''People are just not buying apartments,'' Mr. Ding said. ''It was O.K. in 2009. I've never seen it as bad as it is now.''
Mayor Dong Jun of Xi'an expressed worry in a post last week on the city's Web site.
''The economic situation in the whole city from January through April this year is not that optimistic,'' he said. ''Maintaining the growth rate continues to be very difficult.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A construction worker near Xi'an, China. Many have lost their jobs because developers have been caught in a squeeze for money.
An abandoned project near Xi'an, China, where sales of apartments have slowed sharply. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHARTS: Slowing Down: Electricity production has been an accurate indicator of Chinese economic performance over the years. It and a broad measure of manufacturing are showing sharp decelerations. (Sources: HSBC/Markit
 [China] National Bureau of Statistics, via CEIC Data) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); LAND SUBDIVISION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (92%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



967 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Number of Ailing Banks Falls as Earnings Reach 5-Year High, F.D.I.C. Says

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Bank earnings rose in the first quarter to the highest level in nearly five years, and the number of troubled banks fell for the fourth consecutive quarter, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said on Thursday. 
The mostly positive report illustrated how far the banking industry had come since the 2008 financial crisis. Still, the report noted that many banks remained cautious about lending, a necessary driver of economic growth.
The report is ''broadly in line with what we've seen in the economy as a whole,'' said Bert Ely, an independent banking analyst based in Alexandria, Va. ''Sluggish improvement, but nonetheless improvement.''
The F.D.I.C. said the banking industry earned $35.3 billion in the quarter, compared with $28.7 billion in the period a year earlier. It was the highest level since the second quarter of 2007.
About 67 percent of banks reported improved earnings. Overall revenue increased from the first quarter of 2011, bolstered by higher profits from loans and fees on customers' bank accounts.
The news was not all good. Bank loans to consumers fell in most categories. Credit card loans and home mortgages were among those showing lower balances.
The agency's acting chairman, Martin J. Gruenberg, called the decrease in lending ''disappointing, after we saw three quarters of growth last year.''
Weakness in the housing market has weighed on broader lending, said James Chessen, chief economist of the American Bankers Association, the industry's biggest trade group.
''The overall lending volume for banks will continue to grow at a gradual pace until the housing market improves,'' Mr. Chessen said in a statement.
An exception is loans to commercial and industrial borrowers. Those rose about 14 percent from a year earlier, which suggests that businesses were expanding.
Banks with assets exceeding $10 billion accounted for most of the earnings growth in the January to March period. While they make up just 1.4 percent of banks, they accounted for 81 percent of the earnings.
They include Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. Most of them have recovered with help from federal bailout money and record-low borrowing rates.
The number of banks on the F.D.I.C.'s confidential ''problem'' list fell in the first quarter to 772, or about 9.5 percent of all federally insured banks. That compares with 813 troubled banks in the fourth quarter.
The surge in first-quarter earnings came after the industry's most profitable year since 2006, a sign that many banks have put the 2008 financial crisis behind them. Still, last year's increase came largely because banks suffered fewer losses -- not because they took in more money.
The slow recovery, record-low interest rates and weak demand for loans left bank revenue mostly flat for the year.
Banks are starting to take in more money this year. The industry posted a 3 percent increase in revenue from a year earlier. It was only the second time in the last five quarters that revenue rose, the F.D.I.C. said.
Bank losses on loans declined in the January to March period to $21.8 billion -- the lowest level in four years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



968 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Colleges For Profit Are Growing, With U.S. Aid

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris writes about finance and the economy on nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
There are a lot of government subsidies, and in the current fiscal atmosphere many are shrinking by necessity. What appears to be lacking is any rational way of deciding which should shrink.
The volume of federally guaranteed student loans to students at so-called proprietary colleges -- the ones that intend to operate at a profit and get nearly all their revenue from the government -- continues to grow.
At the same time, state and local governments across the country are slashing spending on higher education, and community colleges -- the ones most likely to offer alternatives to the students recruited by the far more expensive proprietary schools -- are suffering some of the largest reductions.
That trend has been welcome news to the proprietary colleges. ''The competitive landscape'' is getting better, Kevin M. Modany, the chief executive of ITT Educational Services, one of the larger for-profit colleges, told analysts this year. 
''When you look at what's going on right now from a community college perspective,'' he said, ''we're seeing a lot of state budgets being constrained. We're seeing dollars being pulled from their budgets and they're really capped in terms of their enrollment opportunities.''
ITT Educational, on the other hand, opened four new campuses in the first three months of this year, raising its total to 148 locations in 48 states. It expects to open at least four more later this year. It has 71,000 students enrolled.
In Washington, the Obama administration has been trying to write rules that would stop loans going to students at the most exploitative of the schools, ones whose students are most likely to default on the loans and least likely to get jobs if they graduate. The Department of Education is expected to announce within a few weeks which programs at which schools are failing, but that determination will have little immediate impact. The earliest that any school will lose financing is 2014.
ITT Educational Services, which runs ITT Technical Institute, used to be part of the international phone company known as ITT, but it was spun off years ago. It issues associate's and bachelor's degrees, and even some master's degrees. Its shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange and it advertises heavily.
I got interested in ITT Tech after I watched one of its commercials, full of promise of bright career opportunities for students who sign up. At the end of the commercial, the following words flashed on the screen, in small type and for only a few seconds:
''Credits earned are unlikely to transfer.''
If you enroll in a public community college and get a two-year associate degree, you can almost certainly transfer to a four-year college and complete your bachelor's degree in two more years. If you drop out, as many do, you can return to the same or another college years later and complete a degree. But it appears that ITT Tech students are stuck. ITT Tech will award degrees to students who complete enough classes, but any student who wants to transfer will probably have to start over.
How many students who enroll at ITT Tech go on to get a degree?
That sounds like a simple question, but it is not one that ITT Educational wants to answer.
The company does disclose a lot of numbers. But many of those numbers are not very useful. From the Web site, I learned that half the students who earn associate's degrees in business administration do so within the normal period, while the other half take longer. For that two-year diploma, I learned that they pay an average of $48,000 in tuition and fees. Similar numbers are available for the myriad other programs ITT Tech offers. But there are no hints as to how many students actually get degrees, or how many drop out. The company would not provide any overall figures.
It did, however, point me to a government Web site that lets you check graduation rates campus by campus. Some of ITT Tech's campuses had no information available, but the headquarters location in Indianapolis said that 16 percent of students who entered the school in 2004 earned degrees within three years of enrolling in associate degree programs or six years of enrolling in bachelor's degree programs. In the fall of 2010, the Indianapolis campus had 7,619 undergraduate students. By the end of that school year, it had awarded 538 associate's and 336 bachelor's degrees. Last year, ITT Educational had revenue of $1.5 billion, of which 89 percent came directly from the government through grants and loans. Some of that money came from states, but a large majority came from Uncle Sam. Students and their parents put up about 4 percent, and 7 percent came from nongovernment loans.
Raising that 7 percent has been an issue. Last year, the company was able to arrange such nongovernment guaranteed loans by promising lenders it would repay the loans if the students did not. This year it could not renew that arrangement and is having to finance the loans itself. In effect, that means it gets less than full tuition from some students, with a promise they will pay the money later.
ITT Educational has impressive profit margins. In 2009 and 2010, pretax profits exceeded what it spent on educating students. Even in this year's first quarter, when revenue and profits were off from a year earlier, pretax profit amounted to just under 30 percent of revenue.
The decline in earnings did not slow the flow of money to shareholders. During those three months, the company spent $135 million on education costs and paid nearly $147 million to buy back shares. Those education expenses were down 2 percent from a year earlier, while spending on share buybacks rose 5 percent. Marketing costs were up 6 percent.
All those profits would dry up and vanish were government support to wither away, but so far there is little sign of that. In the 2010-11 academic year, the government guaranteed nearly $24 billion in loans to students at proprietary schools and provided almost $9 billion more in grants. All that money went to the schools.
Critics of the schools say that many students, even those who graduate, are unable to earn enough to repay the loans. Students who attend such colleges are far more likely to default on their loans than are students who attend other types of schools.
It is far from clear whether the Obama administration's effort to cut off loans to particularly unsuccessful schools will have much impact, or even if it will happen. A trade group of proprietary schools has filed suit to halt the rule, calling it an unjustified ''regulatory excess.''
That group used to be called the Career College Association, but it changed its name to the Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities and proudly proclaims that ''the market'' has determined the success of its members. If so, it is a market in which the government pays nearly all the bills but leaves students with debts many cannot pay.
Whatever the case used to be for subsidizing these highly profitable companies, it ought to be a lot less compelling now when the country is slashing subsidies for other types of schools -- ones that generally do a better job for their students but that spend far less on lobbyists.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 08, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The High and Low Finance column on May 25, about federal government aid to for-profit colleges like ITT Technical Institute, misstated the number of states in which ITT has campuses. It is 39, not 48. (The institute has students in 48 states, but some of them take classes online rather than at campuses.)

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Borrowing More, and Defaulting More: FEDERAL GRANTS AND LOANS: To students of for-profit colleges
 DEFAULTED STUDENT LOANS: Percentage of loans that go into default within two years of borrower being required to make payments (Source: Department of Education) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TRENDS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: ITT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: ESI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (56%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2012



969 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Negotiations With Iran Conclude Fruitlessly

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and RICK GLADSTONE; Steven Erlanger reported from Baghdad, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Alan Cowell contributed reporting from London, and Thomas Erdbrink from Tehran.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Talks between Iran and six world powers on its disputed nuclear program failed to produce a breakthrough on Thursday, in an apparent diplomatic setback for both sides.
The six wanted a freeze on Iranian production of uranium enriched to 20 percent purity, which is considered a short step from bomb grade. The Iranians wanted an easing of the onerous economic sanctions imposed by the West and recognition of what they call their right to enrich.
But the sides sought to frame the two days of difficult negotiations in a positive way, asserting that they had greater understanding of each other's positions and agreeing to reconvene in Moscow on June 18 and 19. That will be the third such meeting since the talks resumed in Istanbul in April after a 15-month lapse, and could be the last before July 1, when tougher American and European penalties take effect on Iran's banking system and its oil industry, the country's economic lifeline.
The agreement on both a site and a date for the next meeting came only at the end of the two days of talks, after a final news conference had been postponed twice for more negotiations. 
''What we have now is some common ground, and a meeting in place where we can take that further forward,'' said Catherine Ashton, the European Union's top foreign policy official and the lead negotiator for the six powers: the United States, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany. Still, she told reporters at the news conference in Baghdad, ''significant differences remain'' after what she called two days of ''very intense and detailed discussions,'' and she emphasized that time was short.
The chief Iranian negotiator, Saeed Jalili, the secretary of Iran's National Security Council and the personal representative of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, described the talks as positive. But he suggested in his remarks to reporters that the main obstacle was the other side's refusal to accept Iran's claimed right to enrich its own nuclear fuel, which it has continued to do despite four Security Council resolutions demanding a suspension.
''This is our right, and it is clearly irrefutable,'' Mr. Jalili said. If the six powers accept such a right, he said, ''we will, of course, welcome some offer to cooperate on.''
The six counter that the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty has no explicit ''right to enrich,'' only the right to a civilian nuclear program under strict supervision by the International Atomic Energy Agency, and that Iran has been out of compliance.
Part of Iran's proposal, never put into writing, centered on the demand that the global powers recognize its right to enrich, ''something we are obviously not willing to do,'' a senior American official said after the talks.
The proposal of the six centered on getting Iran to suspend enrichment to 20 percent, to export its current and continuing stock of 20 percent enriched uranium and to open up its once-secret Fordo enrichment plant to international inspection. But Iran did not consider the benefits offered for doing so to be sufficient.
There had been hopes in Washington, Israel and Saudi Arabia that these talks would produce at least a suspension of that enrichment, but the American official and European negotiators said that they did not expect to get a suspension at the Baghdad talks. Still, the failure to do much more than agree to another set of talks is likely to be criticized by Republicans and by pro-Israeli lobbying groups and legislators in the United States.
The goal of the six powers -- that Iran suspend all uranium enrichment as the Security Council has demanded -- remained the same at the Baghdad talks. Five of the six are the permanent members of the Security Council.
A senior American official said the six had never expected to reach an agreement with Iran at this stage and that the measures coming into force on July 1, notably a European embargo on Iranian oil, would ''increase the leverage on this negotiation as we move forward. Maximum pressure is not yet being felt by Iran.''
During the Baghdad talks, the six powers exchanged detailed proposals with the Iranian side, which presented what Iranian news reports described as a five-point plan containing both nuclear and nonnuclear elements, including nuclear safety and cooperation, regional issues, and the ''right to enrich.'' Mr. Jalili said the proposal included cooperation battling drug traffickers and Somali piracy off the Horn of Africa.
But much of the conversation dealt with the issue of highly enriched uranium, considered the most important issue, because it brings Iran closer to being able to construct a nuclear weapon if it wishes. This Iran denies intending to do, citing Ayatollah Khamenei's statement that nuclear weapons are ''haram,'' or forbidden by Islam. Iran says it is stockpiling 20 percent enriched uranium for use in medical reactors and has disputed Western assertions that the supply far exceeds what the Iranians need.
Whatever expectations there may have been for substantive progress in Baghdad faded as the second day of discussions began, when Iran's state-financed Press TV satellite broadcaster reported the prospects for success were ''vague and under question'' if the powers rejected the Iranian plan.
Several accounts in Iran's state-controlled media compared the positions taken by Tehran's interlocutors in Baghdad to those of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, which considers Iran's nuclear program an existential threat.
In return for early Iranian steps to freeze 20 percent, the six offered benefits like spare parts for civilian aircraft, help with nuclear safety at civilian installations, and perhaps a pledge that Iran has the right to a peaceful nuclear program so long as it resolves doubts about its intentions through serious, detailed, technical negotiations with the six and through openness with the inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The six also offered a new version of a fuel-exchange program, to take Iran's 20 percent enriched uranium and return it as processed fuel for medical reactors.
Iran experts said it was premature to judge the outcome of the Baghdad round.
Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council in Washington, a strong proponent of negotiations, said it was not surprising that both sides went into the talks with hard bargaining positions. But, he said, ''I think the Iranians are going to have to accept that the full scope of sanctions they want lifted are not going to be done. At the same time, I have a hard time believing this will be kept alive, with significant steps by Iran and no reciprocal concessions by the six powers.''
Aaron Miller, a former senior State Department official, called the talks ''a management exercise driven by Iran's vulnerability and need for sanctions relief and the West's fear of war.'' He said that it would be hard nonetheless to find a sustainable deal. ''The West can't give enough on sanctions and Iran won't concede enough on the nuclear side,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (89%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (76%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (89%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



970 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: A Campaign Issue: Romney at Bain

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''How Change Happens,'' by David Brooks (column, May 22):
Mitt Romney claims that he is a job creator and that, if elected, his private equity firm experience will enable him to do the same on a national basis.
While extolling the productivity gains shown by companies acquired by private equity firms, Mr. Brooks concedes that ''the overall effect on employment is modest.'' For, in the race to become more efficient, many companies have served only one stakeholder, the stockholder, while ignoring all others, in particular, their employees and society at large. Yet, it is these other stakeholders who must ultimately be served if these businesses expect to have a market for their output. 
Private equity firm techniques adopted by many other companies -- corporate downsizing, wage stagnation owing to a failure to share the fruits of productivity gains with the work force, the failure to retrain displaced workers -- have combined to reduce demand for our nation's goods and services. The last thing we need is to apply the techniques of private equity firms like Bain Capital to the government-dominated sectors of our economy, as Mr. Brooks proposes.
JAY N. FELDMAN Port Washington, N.Y., May 22, 2012
To the Editor:
In a Jan. 12 column, David Brooks correctly observed, ''Romney's Bain success is largely irrelevant to the question of whether he could be a good president.''
Now Mr. Brooks defends Bain Capital and attacks the Obama campaign for unfairly criticizing it. Mr. Brooks was right the first time.
As both parties continue to obsess about Bain, and as commentators reverberate the reverberations, we learn little about Mr. Romney's qualifications to be president.
JEREMY FRIEDLANDER San Francisco, May 22, 2012
To the Editor:
I'd like to make three points in response to David Brooks's defense of private equity.
First, when you load a company with debt, you remove any margin for error. I can think of legions of companies with stodgy managements and tired business models that invited buyouts because they could theoretically generate predictable cash flows to justify excessive leveraging. They failed when ambitious projections were not met; without a buyout they might have muddled through.
Second, look at whose capital is at risk. When a private equity firm recoups up front much of its investment through hefty management fees and upfront dividends, they drain cash and cease to have the same ''skin in the game.''
Third, these firms are often driven by short-term objectives: maximize profits to flip the company through an initial public offering or strategic sale. They may bring in expertise, but the executives are disproportionately compensated, particularly when the company fails.
TIMOTHY D. GREEN Wellesley, Mass., May 22, 2012
To the Editor:
David Brooks mistakes a presidential campaign for a policy seminar. A campaign is an effort to establish a narrative about a candidate, in competition with the opposing campaign's narrative.
A fair-minded look at President Obama's actual policies and actions over the last three years show him to be friendly to capitalism, including private equity. What his campaign is trying to do is to establish a narrative portraying Mitt Romney as out of touch with the interests of middle-class Americans, and serving only the interests of the moneyed few. His attack on Mr. Romney's private equity activities is in the service of this narrative, not a general policy prescription. Mr. Obama's campaign should be judged by whether the narrative is fair, and realistic.
MARSHAL MANDELKERN New Haven, May 22, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



971 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes Early Leap Into Direct Engagement on Campaign Trail

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting from Philadelphia, Ashley Parker from Washington, and Jeff Zeleny from Boston.

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- With the general election campaign now under way, one thing has become clear: There will be no Rose Garden strategy for President Obama.
If past incumbents have been reluctant to directly engage opponents this early in an election year for fear of looking like a candidate rather than a president, Mr. Obama has tossed aside convention. No simply leaving it to the vice president or the campaign staff, no waiting until summer, no dancing around with oblique phrases like ''my opponent.''
Instead, with Mitt Romney now the nominal Republican nominee, Mr. Obama has shown a willingness to confront him aggressively by name more than five months before the election. In a succession of speeches on the road over the last two days, the president attacked Mr. Romney as an out-of-touch plutocrat whose prescriptions for the economy would reverse the fragile gains of the last couple of years. 
''There may be value in that kind of experience, but it's not in the White House,'' Mr. Obama told supporters at the Iowa State Fairgrounds on Thursday night. He used the setting to needle Mr. Romney about a controversial comment he made here during the primaries. ''The world view that Governor Romney gained'' in private finance, he said, ''explains why the last time he visited these very same fairgrounds he famously declared that corporations are people.''
Encouraged by the partisan audience, Mr. Obama then mimicked Mr. Romney. '' 'Human beings, my friend' -- that's what he called them.''
Then, he called Mr. Romney's speech here last week warning of a ''prairie fire of debt'' more like ''a cow pie of distortion.'' He added, ''I don't know whose record he twisted the most, mine or his.''
Mr. Romney's camp said the attacks signal desperation. ''All he has to offer now are tired political attacks,'' said Amanda Henneberg, a spokeswoman. ''With no record to run on, no new ideas and flailing attacks like these, it's no surprise the Obama campaign has had such a tough week.''
The early engagement reflects the acceleration of politics in the age of Twitter, when every attack must be countered in real time. Obama strategists calculate that if previous presidents could afford to be more genteel until later in the year and leave the back-and-forth to surrogates until then, such an approach is no longer realistic. After all, no challenger waits to attack the president by name.
''There's no point in being coy,'' said David Axelrod, the president's adviser. ''Governor Romney is the nominee. He's been directing his comments to, and about, the president for a year. The debate has been joined.''
But some veterans of past campaigns, particularly Republicans, questioned whether it would take some of the sheen off Mr. Obama's stature as president. Rather than appearing above the fray, Mr. Obama may look like just another officeseeker.
Sara Fagen, an adviser to President George W. Bush during his 2004 campaign against Senator John Kerry, and later the White House political director, said the campaign was conscious to avoid that. ''He almost never mentioned him and certainly not this early,'' she said. ''President Bush understood it diminished the office by going after his opponent directly.''
That does not mean Mr. Bush's campaign went soft on Mr. Kerry. But the president largely left it to others to be so direct until summer. Vice President Dick Cheney opened the debate with a sharp speech criticizing Mr. Kerry in March 2004 at the same time the campaign began airing its first negative advertisements. When Mr. Bush criticized Mr. Kerry, he generally used phrases like ''my opponent.'' Only in July did he start naming him regularly.
That was the case for previous presidents like Ronald Reagan in 1984 and Bill Clinton in 1996. Of course, Mr. Clinton was in far better shape at this point than Mr. Obama is; he led by 15 percentage points in a Gallup survey in May and could afford to dismiss Senator Bob Dole. Mr. Reagan was ahead by just 4 points at this stage. Mr. Obama is essentially tied with Mr. Romney, according to a succession of polls.
Mr. Romney sought on Thursday to change the subject from his time at Bain Capital, traveling to a mostly black elementary school in West Philadelphia to promote his plan for reducing the role of the federal government in education.
''Our failure to provide kids with the skills they need for the jobs of today and tomorrow is a crisis,'' Mr. Romney said. ''We have an education, an American education crisis, and we keep talking through the same things expecting somehow things to get better. It's like, you guys we've got to try some new things, we've got to be bold.''
But during a panel discussion in the school's library, he faced skepticism from faculty members and local education leaders, who challenged his argument that small class sizes play little role in improving performance. And outside were reminders of Mr. Romney's time in private equity. Protesters held up signs declaring, ''We are the 99 percent.''
Mr. Romney arrived at his campaign headquarters in Boston shortly after lunchtime to meet with advisers.
Before taking a brief reprieve from campaigning over the holiday weekend, he is wrapping up an extensive week of fund-raising at an evening event in Chestnut Hill, Mass., which donors said is expected to raise more than $6 million for his campaign and the Republican National Committee.
Then he and the president will renew a political battle that increasingly sounds more like Labor Day than Memorial Day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama, who was in Des Moines on Thursday, has not had the usual presidential reserve when mentioning his opponent. On Thursday, Mitt Romney took his campaign to Philadelphia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARK MAKELA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



972 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED, SUSANNE CRAIG and MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
SOURED ASSETS REBOUND The Federal Reserve Bank of New York announced on Thursday that Citigroup had won an auction for $1.67 billion of assets of the American International Group, beating out six other financial firms for the bonds. 
In recent months, big banks have been battling to buy the investment that nearly prompted the collapse of A.I.G., betting that the market for those types of investment has recovered. The latest auction centers on a vehicle known as Maiden Lane III that the New York Fed created as part of the broad bailout of A.I.G.
WALL STREET SLANG Been whacked by the market recently?
Wall Street has a new saying for that: You have been Facebooked. Or you have been Zucked.
With shares of the social network trading below their offering price, Facebook and its co-founder Mark Zuckerberg, left, are finding their way into the traders lexicon. On Wall Street, Zuck is a new four-letter word. AZAM AHMED and SUSANNE CRAIG
LEVERAGED BUYOUT The private equity firm Silver Lake and the investment management company Partners Group agreed on Thursday to buy Global Blue, a tax-free shopping business, for 1 billion euros.
The deal, valued at about $1.25 billion, is one of the largest private equity-backed leveraged buyouts in Europe this year. Private equity firms have completed debt-financed European acquisitions worth a combined $15.3 billion in 2012, a 35.5 percent decline from the period a year earlier, according to the data provider Dealogic. MARK SCOTT
TURKISH GAMBIT Sberbank of Russia is in exclusive talks to buy DenizBank, a Turkish subsidiary of the struggling French-Belgian lender Dexia, for $4 billion, said people with direct knowledge of the matter.
The deal would give Sberbank, controlled by Russia's central bank, access to the fast-growing Turkish market, which has continued to grow despite the effects of the European debt crisis. MARK SCOTT
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); SBERBANK ROSSII OAO (82%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); DEXIA SA (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); SBER (RTS) (82%); SBER (LSE) (82%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); DEXB (BRU) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%); EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



973 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Senate Stalls on Legislation For Student Loan Relief

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Senate rejected dueling Democratic and Republican plans on Thursday for averting a July 1 doubling of interest rates on federal college loans for 7.4 million students, pushing back efforts to resolve the problem until next month. 
Before heading off for a 10-day Memorial Day recess, senators voted 62 to 34 against the Republican package and 51 to 43 for the Democratic version, with each falling short of the 60 votes needed for approval. The votes, largely along party lines, were preordained, but the exercise gave lawmakers from each party a chance to show they favor easing students' financial burdens -- and offered potential grist for campaign ads accusing the other side of opposing the effort.
A 2007 law gradually reduced interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans for low- and middle-income students to 3.4 percent. To save money, it mandated that rates return to 6.8 percent for new loans as of July 1.
President Obama has made preventing a rate increase a priority and has appeared at colleges and on television talk shows to promote it. Though some Republicans expressed early concerns that retaining the lower rate would add to college tuition increases, Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican candidate for president, endorsed freezing the rate, and most Republican lawmakers have done the same.
Both measures rejected Thursday would have delayed the interest rate increase for a year at a cost of $6 billion, but each side's bill was paid for in a way the other could not tolerate. Democrats proposed raising Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes on high-earning owners of some privately held companies and professional practices, while Republicans proposed abolishing an Obama administration preventive health program.
That idea drew a White House veto threat when Republicans used it to pay for their House-passed bill in April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); VETO (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (52%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



974 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Egos And Immorality

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In the wake of a devastating financial crisis, President Obama has enacted some modest and obviously needed regulation; he has proposed closing a few outrageous tax loopholes; and he has suggested that Mitt Romney's history of buying and selling companies, often firing workers and gutting their pensions along the way, doesn't make him the right man to run America's economy.
Wall Street has responded -- predictably, I suppose -- by whining and throwing temper tantrums. And it has, in a way, been funny to see how childish and thin-skinned the Masters of the Universe turn out to be. Remember when Stephen Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group compared a proposal to limit his tax breaks to Hitler's invasion of Poland? Remember when Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase characterized any discussion of income inequality as an attack on the very notion of success? 
But here's the thing: If Wall Streeters are spoiled brats, they are spoiled brats with immense power and wealth at their disposal. And what they're trying to do with that power and wealth right now is buy themselves not just policies that serve their interests, but immunity from criticism.
Actually, before I get to that, let me take a moment to debunk a fairy tale that we've been hearing a lot from Wall Street and its reliable defenders -- a tale in which the incredible damage runaway finance inflicted on the U.S. economy gets flushed down the memory hole, and financiers instead become the heroes who saved America.
Once upon a time, this fairy tale tells us, America was a land of lazy managers and slacker workers. Productivity languished, and American industry was fading away in the face of foreign competition.
Then square-jawed, tough-minded buyout kings like Mitt Romney and the fictional Gordon Gekko came to the rescue, imposing financial and work discipline. Sure, some people didn't like it, and, sure, they made a lot of money for themselves along the way. But the result was a great economic revival, whose benefits trickled down to everyone.
You can see why Wall Street likes this story. But none of it -- except the bit about the Gekkos and the Romneys making lots of money -- is true.
For the alleged productivity surge never actually happened. In fact, overall business productivity in America grew faster in the postwar generation, an era in which banks were tightly regulated and private equity barely existed, than it has since our political system decided that greed was good.
What about international competition? We now think of America as a nation doomed to perpetual trade deficits, but it was not always thus. From the 1950s through the 1970s, we generally had more or less balanced trade, exporting about as much as we imported. The big trade deficits only started in the Reagan years, that is, during the era of runaway finance.
And what about that trickle-down? It never took place. There have been significant productivity gains these past three decades, although not on the scale that Wall Street's self-serving legend would have you believe. However, only a small part of those gains got passed on to American workers.
So, no, financial wheeling and dealing did not do wonders for the American economy, and there are real questions about why, exactly, the wheeler-dealers have made so much money while generating such dubious results.
Those are, however, questions that the wheeler-dealers don't want asked -- and not, I think, just because they want to defend their tax breaks and other privileges. It's also an ego thing. Vast wealth isn't enough; they want deference, too, and they're doing their best to buy it. It has been amazing to read about erstwhile Democrats on Wall Street going all in for Mitt Romney, not because they believe that he has good policy ideas, but because they're taking President Obama's very mild criticism of financial excesses as a personal insult.
And it has been especially sad to see some Democratic politicians with ties to Wall Street, like Newark's mayor, Cory Booker, dutifully rise to the defense of their friends' surprisingly fragile egos.
As I said at the beginning, in a way Wall Street's self-centered, self-absorbed behavior has been kind of funny. But while this behavior may be funny, it is also deeply immoral.
Think about where we are right now, in the fifth year of a slump brought on by irresponsible bankers. The bankers themselves have been bailed out, but the rest of the nation continues to suffer terribly, with long-term unemployment still at levels not seen since the Great Depression, with a whole cohort of young Americans graduating into an abysmal job market.
And in the midst of this national nightmare, all too many members of the economic elite seem mainly concerned with the way the president apparently hurt their feelings. That isn't funny. It's shameful.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); POLITICS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); PRIVATE EQUITY (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2012



975 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Things Fall Apart Economically, Everywhere

BYLINE: MARCUS MABRY


HIGHLIGHT: The sky is falling. No, it's just the euro. Oh, wait, it could be China, too, the engine that pulled the world out of the last global recession. 

 BODY:
Europe is planning furiously for the once unthinkable, the annoyingly named "Grexit." (Are the guys who come up with these names 12? Remember the "PIIGS" - Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain?) 
My colleague Jack Ewing in Frankfurt writes, "To listen to European leaders lately, the debate about Greece's exit from the euro zone is increasingly moving from 'if' to 'how.' 
"Secret contingency planning has begun in case events spin out of control," he reports.
In the meantime, China's economy is looking, well, Western. O.K., not that bad. 
But as my colleague Keith Bradsher explains, "A nationwide real estate downturn, stalling exports and declining consumer confidence have produced what a Chinese cabinet adviser, quoted on the official government Web site on Thursday, characterized as a 'sharp slowdown in the economy.' "
Is there even a phrase for that in Mandarin? 
See the graphic proof here.
"China's unexpected economic difficulties are starting to unnerve investors in world markets, especially commodity markets, as China is the world's largest consumer of most raw materials and the second-largest consumer of oil," Keith reports. "A deepening slowdown would ripple across the world economy."
Funny. Writing about Europe and Greece, Jack notes that some experts think the regional and global economic fallout from Greece leaving the euro could be managed, but no one actually knows. A Grexit (I hate myself) could be Lehman Bros. 2.0, roiling global markets in all kinds of unpredictable places and ways, even creating another global economic crisis. 
That is one reason, Jack writes, that a Grexit would have to be worked out in private before springing it on the world as a fait accompli. "Preparations would have to be made in secret, say economists who have studied the issue, then executed with lightning speed over a weekend, when banks were closed."
So, have a nice weekend. 

        
What Do You Think the BRICS Can Build?
        
The Decline and Fall of Greece
        
Hollande on European Leaders: They Talk a Lot
        
A Deafening Silence About Chen in China
        
What Chen Guangcheng's Arrival in America Means

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); BRICS COUNTRIES (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%) China; chinese economy; Euro; European sovereign debt crisis; Global economy; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Greece; Featured; View From Europe

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (98%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); PORTUGAL (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Greece

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



976 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Control: An Update

BYLINE: DOMINICK BROCATO and DW GIBSON


HIGHLIGHT: After Dominick Brocato's account of being fired and unemployed was published here earlier this week, readers asked for an update. Here it is. 

 BODY:
DW Gibson writes: When I contacted Dominick, I learned that he'd had surgery on his right knee (unrelated to his cancer) just the day before. I immediately suggested we talk later but he ignored the offer. True to my memory of him, he was at attention, instantly composed and engaged. His own words - "I am still a vital and vibrant person" - still echo in my head. The update below is composed of Dominick's words from our e-mail correspondence this week and a follow-up conversation over the phone. 
- The Editors
Dominick Brocato
In 2011, after I found out that the cancer I had in my left leg had moved to my left lung, I had a malignant tumor removed with a partial lung resection. In the weeks to follow, my 23-year-old son had an apparent stroke and was later diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. It was at this point when I really wanted to give up. I kept asking myself why I am being punished. I still cry even thinking about my son's new challenges. With adversity you can only hope that something good will come to ease your pain. My first grandson was born last summer, and after holding him, my spirit was renewed. Although they live in California, I'll do everything in my power it to see him grow up.

Many have asked about insurance and said that it is the law that we cannot be denied insurance. Much of this is true starting in 2014 - if the law stands - but today in Missouri, one of our answers is the Missouri State Pool. They had to offer me insurance and it was $1812 per month. Five days before my COBRA was ending, I called my prior employer and asked if there was anything they could do to help me. In this conversation I learned, for the first time, that the company paid for any of us who could not get insurance to be offered private health insurance. This medical coverage for me alone is $1400 per month. This is what I have today. 
I am grateful I have it, but it is another monthly financial drain on my 401k - did I mention that many of us are also getting penalized for early 401k withdrawals? My 401k savings is what I use just to survive and I realize most Americans may not have this as an option. Sadly, my kids know I will have nothing left to leave them or my grandkids.
I have now applied for and been denied jobs at Macy's as a sales clerk, a bakery assistant for $7.75 an hour, three security guard positions from $8 to $10.85 per hour (and yes, I always wanted to carry a bullet in my shirt pocket like Barney Fife), three entry-level positions at a local casino, an entry-level job at two grocery stores, an entry-level job at Quick Trip, and at Costco - applied three times - just to mention a few. Many companies do not offer health care benefits, especially if the position is part-time. If you take a new job and it does not work out for whatever reason, you have to go through underwriting again, and then go six months without insurance before you are given the opportunity to get back into the State Pool insurance, or the private insurance I have today. Keep in mind this is assuming you are accepted back into a program. 
After many months of ongoing pain on my left side, in March of this year, I learned I had a herniated lung. Since I was told after my surgery it would take 6 to 8 months to feel close to normal, I accepted the daily pain not thinking something was still wrong. Apparently, after my surgery in June 2011, a piece of my lung had pushed through the rib cage and was pressing against my spine. This was repaired on March 16 of this year and I am doing much better. 
The positive and the negative to my story is that after all of this, I was finally approved for medical disability. You would think I would be happy, but this seemed like a chapter in my life I did not want to open. I want to work. Although I have had my medical challenges, I am still a vital and vibrant person.
I'm still trying to find a part-time position but truthfully I feel shackled by the disability rules. I don't mean to sound ungrateful; I just want to work. I still want to make a difference, but if I do work, I cannot make more than $700 a month or I will lose my disability. Do I risk it? 
()
DW Gibson's work has appeared in The New York Observer, BOMB, The New York Times' T Magazine, Tin House, The Caravan and elsewhere. He has worked on documentaries for the A&E Television Network and MSNBC. More information can be found at the Not Working Project Web site. 

        
Control
        
Meltdown in Motherland
        
Cycle of Fear
        
Up in Smoke
        
Prelude to a Kiss

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CANCER (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US 401K PLANS (88%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); DISMISSALS (88%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (69%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (68%); BAKERIES (66%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (54%) Anxiety; Health insurance; Unemployment; Anxiety and Stress; Health Insurance and Managed Care

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



977 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Book Review Podcast: Market Values

BYLINE: JOHN WILLIAMS


HIGHLIGHT: Michael Lind's "Land of Promise" examines the competing economic philosophies that have driven American policy. 

 BODY:
In the New York Times Book Review, David Leonhardt reviews Michael Lind's "Land of Promise," an economic history of the United States. Mr. Leonhardt writes:
Whatever their political party, American leaders have generally subscribed to one of two competing economic philosophies. One is a small-government Jeffersonian perspective that abhors bigness and holds that prosperity flows from competition among independent businessmen, farmers and other producers. The other is a Hamiltonian agenda that believes a large, powerful country needs large, powerful organizations. The most important of those organizations is the federal government, which serves as a crucial partner to private enterprise, building roads and schools, guaranteeing loans and financing scientific research in ways that individual businesses would not.
"Land of Promise" argues for the benefits of the Hamiltonian perspective, and Mr. Leonhardt assesses the book's qualities as both a history and an act of persuasion.
This week on the podcast, Mr. Lind talks about "Land of Promise"; John Leland discusses a biography of Richard Brautigan; and Gregory Cowles has best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus is the host.

        
Book Review Podcast: Fact, Fiction and In Between
        
Book Review Podcast: Starkly Different Views of American Liberals
        
Book Review Podcast: A Novelist's View of the Absurdities of Motherhood
        
Book Review Podcast: L.B.J. in the White House
        
Book Review Podcast: Nell Freudenberger's New Novel

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (97%); PODCASTING (92%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (54%) Book Review Podcast; David Leonhardt; john leland; Land of Promise; Michael Lind; Richard Brautigan; Brautigan, Richard; Cowles, Gregory; Leland, John; Leonhardt, David; Lind, Michael; Tanenhaus, Sam; Books and Literature; Podcasts; United States Economy; Land of Promise (Book); Books

PERSON: Brautigan, Richard; Cowles, Gregory; Leland, John; Leonhardt, David; Lind, Michael; Tanenhaus, Sam

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



978 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: A NATO Summit That Marks a Low

BYLINE: DANIEL POLITI


HIGHLIGHT: A meeting about winding down the war in Afghanistan exposes the alliance's shortcomings. 

 BODY:
 NATO member countries this week formally ratified a way to wind down their involvement in Afghanistan next year. That's progress of sorts, but with little talk of the hardest issues raised by the protracted war, some analysts are saying the meeting also exposed NATO's shortcomings.
"Finding a respectable exit from the ten-year conflict against the Taliban and its allies has become the overriding priority," points out The Economist. But "rather than plotting a convincing path to that goal, Chicago showed how difficult it will be to reach."

According to an editorial in Daily Outlook Afghanistan, President Barack Obama's reference to the withdrawal as "a process" is a "clear indication" that "the game is just entering into another stage which will be bloodier for Afghanistan."
For Patty Culhane, an Al Jazeera correspondent, the summit left unanswered "the most important question: what will life be like for the people of Afghanistan?" "During the entire two-day discussion about ending the war, the leaders never -- not once that I heard -- publicly addressed the issue."
For some, such omissions are telling. "To me," writes Najmuddin A. Shaikh in Dawn, a Pakistani daily, "the summit suggested that America and its NATO partners, despite the hoopla and the brave words, are quite prepared tocut their losses in Afghanistan and treat it as a lost cause."
It certainly seems that NATO's "ambitions have been reduced to leaving with some modicum of order rather than any sense of that elusive concept, victory," writes Jeffrey Simpson in Canada's Globe and Mail.
Does this scaling back undermine the usefulness or legitimacy of the organization? The alliance's backers may "keep up the faade of NATO being the greatest guarantor of global peace and security, but it looks like a narrow American instrument," argues Sreeram Chaulia in The Asian Age.
"There is no reason for Nato to be involved in Afghanistan, other than the military convenience of the United States," claims Francis Matthew in Gulf News. In fact, "NATO made a tragic mistake when it gave itself the authority to get involved outside its core territory of Europe and North America."
Writing in China's People's Daily, Zhang Yun argues the summit was a reminder of how "the two sides of the Atlantic have an increasing divergence of views on the orientation of NATO." And that's one reason "NATO is being marginalized."

        
The Taliban Attacks: Afghanistan
        
The First Opium Win
        
No More Mr. Nice Guy
        
About the Rampage in Panjwai
        
The Vanity of the Bonfires

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); OPIUM (69%) Afghanistan; NATO; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Viewfinder

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (77%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



979 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2204 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
Prosecutors Seek to Show Gupta's Close Ties to Rajaratnam | If he had his druthers, Rajat K. Gupta would have been in Cambridge, Mass., on Thursday, attending his daughter's graduation from Harvard Business School. Instead, Mr. Gupta was seated at the defense table in Judge Jed S. Rakoff's courtroom in Manhattan, on trial on insider trading charges.
The government has accused Mr. Gupta, a former director at Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, of passing corporate secrets to his friend and business associate Raj Rajaratnam. Mr. Rajaratnam, a former head of the Galleon Group hedge fund, is serving 11 years in prison after being convicted last year of fraud and conspiracy.
Jurors heard a range of testimony on Thursday, the fourth day of what is expected to be about a three-week trial. Prosecutors played for the jury secretly recorded telephone calls that they believe are powerful evidence of Mr. Gupta's guilt. A current Goldman director took the stand to discuss the duties of a Goldman board member. And an executive at J.M. Smucker testified about his company's acquisition of Folgers Coffee from Procter & Gamble - a deal Mr. Gupta is accused of leaking to Mr. Rajaratnam.
Prosecutors also sought to debunk one of Mr. Gupta's chief defenses: that he and Mr. Rajaratnam were not that close and, at some point, even had a falling out. The government showed the jury two e-mails suggesting differently.
DealBook 
Lehman to Buy Remainder of Archstone for $1.58 Billion | Lehman Brothers Holdings has agreed to buy the stake it does not currently own in Archstone, a sprawling apartment company, for about $1.58 billion.
Lehman will buy the remaining 26.5 percent stake from Bank of America and Barclays, after months of negotiations over the holdings. The companies confirmed the deal on Friday.
As part of the deal, Lehman will provide some compensation to its main rival for the banks' stake, Samuel Zell's Equity Residential. Earlier this year, Lehman agreed to buy half of Bank of America and Barclays' stake for $1.3 billion, in an effort to prevent them from selling the stake to Equity Residential.
Under the terms of the latest transaction, Equity Residential will receive $150 million, which includes an $80 million breakup fee, according to a person briefed on the matter.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Spaniards Grow Uneasy About Bank Deposits | The increasing transfers of deposits out of Spanish banks for safer havens don't constitute a bank run. But The New York Times reports that they "reflect a broader fear that the country's problems could make it hard for Spaniards to get to their money if banks fail and cannot be supported by the government. In a worst case, some even worry their money will be worth substantially less if Spain is forced to leave the euro currency zone and re-adopt its old currency, the peseta."
NEW YORK TIMES
How Goldman Sachs Does Philanthropy | The Goldman Sachs Foundation, with more than $500 million in assets, is focusing its efforts on promoting economic growth, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Been Facebook-ed Lately? | With shares of the social network below their offering price, Facebook and its co-founder Mark Zuckerberg are becoming curse words on Wall Street.
DealBook 
Poking Holes in Wall Street Stories | Paul Krugman writes in his column in The New York Times that "financial wheeling and dealing did not do wonders for the American economy, and there are real questions about why, exactly, the wheeler-dealers have made so much money while generating such dubious results."
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Delphi Automotive in Talks to Buy Unit From FCI | Delphi Automotive, the car parts maker, said on Thursday that it had offered to buy the Motorized Vehicles Division of the FCI Group for about $972 million in cash.
DealBook 
Alibaba Said to Seek Billions to Buy Back Yahoo Stake | The Chinese Investment Corporation is said to be in talks to lend money to the Internet company Alibaba so it can repurchase a stake held by Yahoo.
DealBook 
Sberbank of Russia in Talks to Buy DenizBank for $4 Billion | Sberbank of Russia is in exclusive talks to buy DenizBank, a Turkish subsidiary of the struggling French-Belgian lender Dexia, for $4 billion.
DealBook 
Icahn Said to Hold a Stake in Chesapeake | Carl C. Icahn may control a 4 percent stake in Chesapeake Energy, Bloomberg News reports, citing a person who declined to be identified because the holding had not been officially disclosed.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Chinese Tycoon Looks Elsewhere for Deals | Wang Jianlin, whose company the Wanda Group agreed to pay $2.6 billion for AMC Entertainment, sees the deal as part of a broader strategy that could involve deals in Europe, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
In the Persian Gulf, Struggling to Adapt as Deals Dry Up | In an environment of dwindling market volume and disappointing pace of deals, some of the region's most prominent investment banks are undergoing drastic changes.
DealBook 
Citigroup Wins Fed Auction for Maiden Lane Bonds | On Thursday, the Federal Reserve Board of New York announced that Citigroup had won an auction for $1.6 billion of assets, beating out six other financial firms for the bonds.
DealBook 
JPMorgan's Deficient Disclosures | If JPMorgan had more clearly broken out its hedging activity, investors might have asked questions about what was going on at the chief investment office well before its $2 billion-plus trading loss became public.
DealBook 
A Lack of Financial Experience on JPMorgan's Risk Committee | Bloomberg News reports that the three directors who oversee risk at JPMorgan Chase include "a museum head who sat on American International Group's governance committee in 2008, the grandson of a billionaire and the chief executive officer of a company that makes flight controls and work boots."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Qualified Recovery Seen in Banking | A report by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation showed that bank earnings rose in the first quarter to the highest level in nearly five years while the number of troubled banks fell, The Associated Press reports. But the report also said banks remained cautious about lending.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
French Banks Seek New Sources of Financing | Socit Gnrale, for instance, is looking to German car loans and bonds denominated in Chinese currency, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Moody's Downgrades Nordic Banks | DNB, Handelsbanken and Nordea had their ratings cut by Moody's, which cited vulnerability in the Nordic banks' reliance on wholesale financing, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Bain Capital Makes an Uncertain Political Football | The New York Times reports that "for all its preparation and forewarning, the Romney campaign - famous for its message discipline and single-strategy approach toward problems - has yet to settle on a clear, overarching way to handle the Bain criticism that is certain to come."
NEW YORK TIMES
Maurice Greenberg Looks to Do Buyout Deals | A company overseen by Maurice Greenberg, the former head of A.I.G, said it was planning to raise money from institutional investors to finance private equity deals, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman Considers Japanese Real Estate | Goldman Sachs is planning to invest in Japan's property market through a real estate investment trust with as much as $620 million, according to Bloomberg News, which cites two unidentified people familiar with the situation.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Cerberus Tries to Exit a Japanese Bank | The private equity firm's efforts to exit its investment in Aozora Bank have been complicated by a government plan to take a large stake in the lender, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS 
Seeking a More Direct Hedge Fund Investment | Some pension funds that once put their money in funds that invest in hedge funds are looking to cut out a layer of fees by moving their money to the hedge funds themselves, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
High Fees, Disappointing Returns | South Carolina's pension fund said it paid unusually high fees to the Mariner Investment Group hedge fund while receiving returns that trailed those of competitors, Bloomberg News reports. The state's treasurer, Curtis Loftis, said: "I think it's systemic. I think it's happening all across the country."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
AMR Creditors Organize | Hedge funds like York Capital Management and King Street Capital are among a group of creditors to American Airlines' parent company that are trying to maximize their recoveries in bankruptcy court, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Hedge Fund Buoyed by a Bet Against Energy Prices | Clive Capital rose about 7 percent in the first three weeks of May after betting that energy and power prices would fall, erasing its loss for the year, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people with knowledge of the fund.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Small Investors Try to Make Sense of Facebook Trading | The New York Times reports on the aftermath of Facebook's troubled debut: "On a normal day, most of the trading would be done by big financial institutions and trading firms, but on Friday an unusually large proportion of the trading was done by ordinary investors, hungry for riches from the biggest Internet initial offering ever, through brokers like Scottrade, Charles Schwab and Fidelity. These retail investors have spent much of this week looking for someone to address their losses, or even just to answer questions about where they can take their complaints."
NEW YORK TIMES
Brokerage Firm Looks to Adjust Facebook Orders | Morgan Stanley Smith Barney told its financial advisers it would adjust prices on a few thousand client trades of Facebook shares, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person on the conference call.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Facebook Underwriters Said to Assist Short-Sellers | Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, two of Facebook's underwriters, were among firms that lent out shares of the social network so that they could be bet against, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Citadel Said to Have Lost Money on Facebook | Citadel Securities, a unit of the investment firm run by Kenneth C. Griffin, may have lost as much as $35 million trading Facebook, an unidentified person with knowledge of the firm told Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Evonik Prepares for an I.P.O. | Evonik, the specialty chemicals company owned by the RAG foundation and CVC Capital Partners, plans to list on the Frankfurt stock exchange in the coming months, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Barry Diller Prepares for Battle Over Start-Up | Big TV networks have tried to shut down Aereo, a start-up backed by Barry Diller that streams television onto Internet devices, and these efforts will be tried in federal court next week, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Another Card Reader on the Market | Groupon is said to be testing a credit card reader for merchants, which plugs into the headphone jack of a smartphone, Bloomberg News reports. It would compete with similar devices made by Square and PayPal.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Traveling Investment Show | Geeks on a Plane, a group run by the angel investor Dave McClure, travels to major cities to promote the culture of Silicon Valley, and to search for companies to invest in, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Despite Doubts, Lehman Charges Still Possible | Suggestions that an investigation into the collapse of Lehman Brothers could end without any enforcement came from a months-old memo that was drafted by staff members.
DealBook 
The Advantages of Arbitration | Companies have reason to be more confident that a fair arbitration system can substitute for judicial litigation, argues Andrew Pincus of the law firm Mayer Brown.
DealBook 
Law Enforcement Group Seeks More Investigators | Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, said the new coalition known as the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group expected to get more resources from the government, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
A Compromise on Money Market Fund Rules? | Officials from mutual fund firms said at a meeting this month that they would consider supporting a watered-down version of a Securities and Exchange Commission plan to regulate the industry, unidentified people familiar with the matter told The Wall Street Journal.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Europe's Secretive Liquidity Program | The European Central Bank has tried to keep a lid on information about the Emergency Liquidity Assistance program, in which banks receive assistance from one of the 17 national central banks, Bloomberg News writes.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Standard Chartered Banker Released in China | Wu Yidian Eden, a Standard Chartered banker who was suspected of helping a fugitive, was released on Thursday after being held by thr police in China, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); WITNESSES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); EURO ZONE (61%); EURO (60%); INSIDER TRADING (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); EQUITY RESIDENTIAL (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); EQR (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (52%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (79%); SAMUEL ZELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



980 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(2012 London Olympics)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; olympics

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Flashback Friday: Detroit's Olympic Dream

BYLINE: JOANNE C. GERSTNER


HIGHLIGHT: Detroit came very close to hosting the 1968 Olympics, losing by a small margin to Mexico City. 

 BODY:
It's hard to believe, especially given the past four decades of economic struggle and population drain,that Detroit used to be seriously considered as a host city for the Summer Olympics.
Detroit was a finalist to host the 1968 Games, after being chosen by the United States Olympic Committee as the winning American bid, competing with Mexico City, Lyon, France and Buenos Aires. President John F. Kennedy made Detroit's case by film to the International Olympic Committee in 1963, saying the city would give, "the warmest and most cordial welcome in the U.S."
But hosting the Olympics was not to be. Mexico City was won by 16 votes over Detroit in voting by I.O.C. members in 1963.
Detroit has long sought to host the Summer Olympics, being the only city to bid seven times without success: 1944, and from 1952 through 1972. The 1968 bid came the closest.
The U.S.O.C.'s nod to Detroit for the '68 bid did not come without controversy in 1962, with some U.S.O.C. members asking for a reconsideration of the decision. Detroit's ability to finance and follow through on plans was questioned.
Detroit's host committee went on the offensive, putting together a film featuring then-mayor Jerome Cavanaugh and Michigan Gov. George W. Romney, the father of 2012 presidential candidate Mitt Romney, to save the bid.
For those who hail from Detroit, the film is amusing, sad, frustrating, and stunning to see what might have happened to the city if it had hosted the Olympics. For the rest of the country, it's a glimpse of the positivity and ambition that Detroit abounded with at that time. The film, entitled "The Detroit You've Never Met", makes the case that Detroit is the right place to host the Olympics for many reasons.
It's a classic, with B-movie-quality special effects, with a serious Romney and Cavanaugh staring straight into the camera from behind a massive podium. Dioramas show the plans for a 110,000-seat Olympic Stadium, to be built on the now-closed Michigan State Fairgrounds site. A 10,000-seat outdoor velodrome was also planned. The Olympic Village was to be built as part of Wayne State University in midtown Detroit, and then turned over after the Olympics to be used as student housing.
Cavanaugh touted using the Detroit River for the first artificial rowing course.
Their plans were big, and according to Cavanaugh, money was no problem. The chairmen of the automotive companies, headlined by Henry Ford II, also make appearances in the film, to show Detroit's might.
Cavanaugh talks at length about Detroit's balanced budget, set for $350 million in 1962-63 fiscal year. He declares, "Detroit has never been so financially healthy."
Contrast that with today's nearly-bankrupt Detroit, which narrowly warded off the state mandating an emergency manager this spring, through a controversial consent agreement.
In the logo, the Olympic rings were replaced by five gear wheels, a riff off the auto industry, with each wheel having a positive trait: talent, expertise, resources, responsibility and enthusiasm.
Clichs are liberally employed to make Detroit's case, with the announcer intoning, "The only dirt on Detroiter's faces is the dust kicked up by dedicated men rolling up their sleeves to do a job and do it well."
Cavanaugh tells the committee that Detroit is a diverse, yet unified, place and would get behind hosting the Olympics, from "the high schools, college students to Labor Unions." Unfortunately, Detroit's unity would be shattered in 1967, when riots inflamed the city and the National Guard was called out to restore peace.
Romney, a more dynamic speaker than Cavanaugh in the film, told the U.S.O.C. that taking the Olympic bid away from Detroit would "injure us irreparably." The U.S.O.C. stuck with Detroit.
Detroit's final try for the Olympics came in 1965, which featured another Cavanaugh film, in a bid for the 1972 Games. The film, called "Detroit, City on the Move", is part of the Prelinger Archives.
Cavanaugh described 1965 as "Detroit's finest hour," and called it, "the most cosmopolitan city of the Midwest."
If only Cavanaugh knew what was to come, from the riots to the collapse of the auto industry (twice) to the mass population move from Detroit to its suburbs. Who knows if the Olympics could have helped Detroit mitigate those calamities?

        
Sweden 1912: What a Trip
        
Sweden 1912: Soldiers Welcome
        
Bolt and Pistorius to Compete in Czech Meet
        
What We're Reading
        
Olympic Torch Turns Out to Be a Tough Sell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (96%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (92%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MAYORS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); STUDENT HOUSING (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) Detroit; George W. Romney; Olympics; Olympic Games; International Olympic Committee; United States Olympic Committee; Detroit (Mich)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (91%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (91%) International Olympic Committee; United States Olympic Committee

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%); LYON, FRANCE (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); RHONE-ALPES, FRANCE (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); FRANCE (92%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



981 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Could Obama Win the Military Vote?

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The president's advisers think his actions in office and the changing face of the military could overcome a traditional Republican advantage. 

 BODY:
At the height of the Iraq war in 2004, veterans gave President George W. Bush a 16-percentage-point edge over his Democratic rival. Four years later, Barack Obama trailed among the former military members by 10 percentage points.
But Mr. Obama's campaign said it thinks his three and a half years as commander in chief have turned the tables on the issue, giving him a good chance at winning the veteran vote this year.
One of Mr. Obama's first campaign ads - released just this week - was aimed directly at war-weary service members and their families.
"It's because of what they've done that we've been able to go after al-Qaeda and kill Bin Laden," Mr. Obama says in the ad. "And when they come home we have a sacred trust to make sure that we are doing everything we can to heal all of their wounds, giving them the opportunities that they deserve to find a job and get the education that they need."
The ad is part of Mr. Obama's efforts to capitalize on a very different profile than is typical for a Democratic president.
Having come into the White House on an antiwar platform, Mr. Obama nonetheless increased American involvement in Afghanistan even as he began drawing down troops in Iraq. Now, both wars are winding down - a
relief to many military members and their families.
In addition, Mr. Obama has embraced the use of drones to assassinate terrorist leaders. And he authorized the raid that led to the killing of Osama bin Laden.
"President Obama is committed to ensuring that all of our men and women who've served in uniform can find work when they return home, receive the health care and benefits they've earned and have the chance to get a college education through the post-9/11 G.I. Bill," said Clo Ewing, a campaign spokeswoman.
Working in Mr. Obama's favor may be the changing face of the American military, which is becoming younger and more diverse. Advisers to the president note that he actually won in 2008 among veterans who were under 60 years old.
The military is also changing in its attitudes toward social issues, the Obama campaign believes. Mr. Obama's decision to end the "don't ask, don't tell" ban on gays serving openly will be a benefit, they say.
There is little recent polling to suggest how the two candidates are faring among veterans. But advisers to Mr. Romney scoff at the idea that Mr. Obama will steal away a traditional Republican advantage come Election Day. They argue that the president's economic policies have been especially detrimental to veterans and their families.
"The president's policies have not provided opportunity for the next generation of soldiers who are returning home from the battlefield," said Ryan Williams, a spokesman for Mr. Romney. "We think that's an important distinction."
Mr. Williams said unemployment among veterans of the Iraq war stands at 9.2 percent, higher than the 8.1 percent rate for the nation as a whole. And, he said, nearly one in five veterans of that war was unemployed in April.
"President Obama's policies have failed veterans and they are looking to elect a different president," Mr. Williams said.
Both campaigns lay claim to having the better ideas for helping veterans once they come home.
Mr. Obama's campaign points to the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill that the president signed into law as evidence of how his policies have already helped veterans. Mr. Romney's campaign says Mr. Obama's budget cuts veterans benefits deeply.
But the effort to woo military members and their families also depends on the candidates' broader approach to military issues and waging war - and on how to pay for it.
Mr. Romney's campaign is using the president's support of the debt-ceiling deal last year that would force huge cuts in defense spending if Congress can't find a way to avoid them. Mr. Romney has opposed the defense cuts, calling them a danger to the quality of the armed forces.
Mr. Williams, the spokesman for Mr. Romney, called them "devastating and crippling defense cuts" that would "leave our armed forces in a state of disarray. These irresponsible defense cuts do not appeal to veterans."
Campaign aides to the president counter that Mr. Romney's proposals would leave veterans without the proper care and respect the deserve. Ms. Ewing said Mr. Romney "suggested privatizing veterans' health care, eliminating the department that helps homeless veterans and fails to mention veterans once in his 160-page, 59-point plan for jobs and economic growth."
Mr. Obama's advisers are also betting that the public at large - and veterans in particular - will not view the president as weak on defense, in part because of the actions he's taken as president.
The ad his campaign released this week features grainy, green-tinted video of military operations on the screen as Mr. Obama praises the soldiers who went on the raid that killed Bin Laden.
Mr. Obama also frequently mentions the Bin Laden raid in speeches and on the campaign trail. During a commencement speech to members of the Air Force Academy this week, Mr. Obama said that "for the first time
in your lives -- and thanks to Air Force personnel who did their part -- Osama bin Laden is no longer a threat to our country."
Advisers in Chicago, where Mr. Obama's campaign has its headquarters, are also counting on support from veterans who are happy that the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are coming to an end. Many soldiers and Marines served multiple tours of duty in those countries.
In the end, though, it remains an open question whether Mr. Obama's actions as president - and a changing military - can help him overcome the traditional advantage that Republicans have held among veterans.
The answer to that question may not come until Election Day.

        
Romney Confronts Health Care Questions
        
Campaigns Partner With Social Media Companies
        
The Economy Isn't Obama's Only Challenge
        
Court Health Care Decision Poses Risks For Romney
        
Why It's Good for Romney to Be at 21 Percent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); VETERANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); TERRORISM (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%) 2012; Democrats; military; mitt romney; president obama; Republicans; Veterans; bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Defense and Military Forces; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) bin Laden, Osama; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



982 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Pogue's Posts)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: A Government Program That Could Improve the Economy

BYLINE: DAVID POGUE


HIGHLIGHT: When the government kick-started the Internet and shared the GPS system with the public, it transformed the economy. Now it is opening up government data. 

 BODY:
Considering how often the federal government is depicted as a huge, bloated, incomprehensible bureaucracy, it's always refreshing when it does something forward-thinking and consumer-friendly. In the technology realm, it does that fairly often. 
It was our government, for example, that decided to turn over the military-academic network known as the Internet to the general public; that one turned out pretty well. That same gang turned over its military positioning satellites - the GPS system - to the public for use in our cars and, eventually, phones. Weather data: same thing.
I'm also a fan of the Federal Communications Commission these days, which often seems to be the only thing standing between greedy cellphone companies and world domination.
On Wednesday, the president and his chief information officer introduced another digital handing-over to the public: government data. To kick-start efforts to open up government information, the president will require each major federal agency to make two important government services available on mobile phones within the next 12 months.
There's also something called the Presidential Innovation Fellows program. The idea is to invite great techno-minds from outside the government to help turn specific government databases into cellphone-friendly services in "health, education, energy, safety, and personal finance."
The ultimate idea behind all of this, says the Obama administration, is to inspire a burst of innovation, apps, development, small businesses and jobs.
I'm left somewhat adrift by these announcements; they seem a little light on specifics. The press contact gave only one example of an entrepreneur who's made a business out of government data: iTriage, a Denver start-up whose app helps you understand your medical symptoms and book appointments with relevant local doctors. As six million people downloaded this app, the company grew to 72 employees and then was snapped up by Aetna.
Then again, maybe it's not fair to expect the program's backers to identify where it might lead; nobody could have foreseen where the open Internet and public GPS would have taken us, either. In all of these cases, the government said, "Here's a cool tool. Go for it." American ingenuity took care of the rest.
So here's to more data available to more people - and more apps that make more use of it. I can't wait to see what develops.

        
More Cellphone Data Usage Tips
        
How to Track Your Smartphone Data Usage
        
Casting Call!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SMARTPHONES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); WEATHER (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%) data; economy; government; Obama, Barack; Computers and the Internet; Global Positioning System; Science and Technology; Great Ideas

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2012



983 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: DealBook's Week in Review: Questions of Fair Play

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: In Washington, lawmakers and regulators are scrutinizing the fairness of Facebook's I.P.O. process. In New York, a prosecutor continues his broad campaign to end insider trading. A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance. 

 BODY:
 In Washington, lawmakers and regulators are scrutinizing the fairness of Facebook's I.P.O. process. In New York, a prosecutor continues his broad campaign to end insider trading. A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Alibaba Said to Seek Billions to Buy Back Yahoo Stake | The China Investment Corporation, a sovereign wealth fund, is in advanced talks to add as much as $2 billion, Michael J. de la Merced reported. DealBook 

        
Yahoo Will Sell a Stake in Alibaba | The troubled Internet media company plans to use the proceeds, valued at about $7.1 billion, to shoring up its sagging stock price, Mr. de la Merced and Evelyn M. Rusli reported. DealBook 
Barclays to Sell Stake in BlackRock | Basel III would have required the London bank to set aside capital against the investment firm to cushion itself against any decline in the value of that holding, Julia Werdigier reported. DealBook 
Investment Banking 
In the Persian Gulf, Struggling to Adapt as Deals Dry Up | Shuaa Capital, an investment company in Dubai with a 30-year history, is one of several regional firms making sweeping changes to cut costs, Sara Hamdan and Stanley Reed reported. DealBook 
JPMorgan Suspends $15 Billion in Buybacks | The decision - a move the bank said it made on its own, not at the behest of regulators - sent the company's shares sliding again, closing at their lowest level since late last year, Nelson D. Schwartz reported. DealBook 
The bank's overall health remains strong, and JPMorgan Chase is still expected to post a substantial profit for the second quarter. Even if the loss were to double to $4 billion, the company would still end up in the black for the quarter.
Hedge Funds 
Deal Professor: Disclosure of Short-Sellers' Bets Would Benefit the Market | Steven M. Davidoff says that "wild gyrations of stocks based on the barest mention by short-sellers revive the debate on rules requiring disclosures of big short positions." DealBook 
Short-sellers have a right to try to talk a stock down, just as much as other investors can try to talk a stock up. Yet when a public company is under fire, market manipulation is often the cry when there is short-selling.
I.P.O./Offerings 

        
Questions of Fair Play Arise in Facebook's I.P.O. Process | "As Washington intensifies its scrutiny of the initial public offering of Facebook, the company's bankers are facing questions about whether the process - even if perfectly legal - was fair," Ms. Rusli, Ben Protess and Mr. de la Merced reported. DealBook 
"With Memorial Day weekend, the summer pools are open, and this is an invitation for all the regulators to jump right in," Jacob S. Frenkel, a former S.E.C. lawyer and now a partner at Shulman, Rogers, Gandal, Pordy & Ecker. 
        
Facebook Debut Raises Questions on I.P.O. Process | Regulators are concerned that banks may have shared information only with certain clients, rather than broadly with investors, Ms. Rusli an Mr. de la Merced reported. DealBook 
"There is a stigma around a broken deal, and Facebook is a broken deal," said Connor Browne, a managing director for Thornburg Investment Management.
        
As Facebook's Stock Struggles Fingers Start Pointing | Critics contend that the offering price was too high and too many shares were sold to the public, Mr. de la Merced, Ms. Rusli and Susanne Craig reported. DealBook 
        
Nasdaq Concedes Facebook Missteps | But the chief executive of the stock market contended that technical issues had not affected the performance of the company's shares, Mr. de la Merced reported. DealBook 
"We got more shares than we expected, which spooked us" nyti.ms/Jl2QJG It is a very bad sign when you get your full order filled. $FB
- Epicurean Dealmaker (@EpicureanDeal) May 22, 2012
Legal/Regulatory 
Prosecutors Seek to Show Ex-Goldman Director's Close Ties to Inside Trader | Prosecutors played for the jury secretly recorded telephone calls that they believe are powerful evidence of Rajat K. Gupta's guilt, Peter Lattman and William Alden reported. DealBook 
"Raj [Rajaratnam] is one of the most outstanding hedge fund managers and a very close friend," Mr. Gupta wrote in February 2007 to a colleague.

        
Buffett's Goldman Deal Is Topic in an Insider Case | Byron D. Trott explained how quickly the $5 billion deal came together and how few people knew about it - other than Mr. Gupta - before it was announced. DealBook 
At Goldman Sachs, Mr. Trott was so vigilant about guarding clients' confidences that he was known to fire underlings who discussed private matters in the bank's elevators.
        
Parsing List of 5 Names at Insider Trading Trial | Mr. Rajaratnam's executive assistant received instructions not to bother him during the first half-hour or the last half-hour of the trading day, except if he got a call from a shortlist of very important people. DealBook 
A lawyer for Mr. Gupta showed the jury a travel itinerary for an overnight trip to the Borgata hotel and casino in Atlantic City for an annual celebration of an exclusive, high-end fantasy football league that Mr. Rajaratnam and several Goldman executives participated in.
        
Dueling Portrayals of Ex-Goldman Director at Insider Trial | The prosecutor appealed to the jury of mostly working-class New Yorkers by highlighting the unfair advantage that he said Mr. Rajaratnam had received from Rajat K. Gupta's reported tips, Mr. Lattman and Azam Ahmed reported. DealBook 
"Getting tips from Gupta was like knowing the outcome of a game before it ends or getting tomorrow's business news today," the prosecutor told the jury.
        
Respected Corporate Wise Man, Set to Stand Trial in Insider Case | As part of their defense strategy, Mr. Gupta's lawyers are expected to vilify Goldman Sachs, depicting it as a cesspool of tipsters. DealBook 

WB delays deal talks to take grandkids for ice cream: NYTimes: Buffett's Goldman Deal Is Topic in an Insider Case nyti.ms/KqMnT1- David Glen (@dhglen) May 24, 2012
New Rules for Prepaid Debit Cards | The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is expected to complete an overhaul of largely unregulated product in the next year, Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg reported. DealBook 
S.E.C. Adds Firepower in Pursuit of Violators | The agency is taking its cue from criminal authorities, studying statistical formulas to trace connections, creating a powerful unit to cull tips and embedding F.B.I. agents with the regulator, Mr. Protess and Azam Ahmed reported. DealBook 
Gov't pushes Constitutional limits to bust 3 more ppl no one knew existed. "Mwah hahaha" says Corzine from French villa nyti.ms/JseGTH
- Jeff Macke (@JeffMacke) May 22, 2012
Dealbook Column: Reinstating an Old Rule Is Not a Cure for Crisis | Andrew Ross Sorkin says that "while the repeal of Glass-Steagall has seemingly become the sine qua non of the financial crisis, it is pure historical revisionism." DealBook 
"It is too simplistic to say that prop-trading and derivatives did not directly cause the crisis, but these activities are part of the culture of speculation that infects our economy." -- R. Christopher Whalen, a financial analyst. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); MERGERS (77%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%) Week in Review

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (70%); INDIAN OCEAN (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (70%); GULF STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2012



984 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 08

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths STEINBERG, ANDREW

 BODY:
STEINBERG--Andrew, 53, of Chevy Chase, MD and Falls Village, CT, died at home in Chevy Chase on May 20 of uveal melanoma. A partner in the Washington, DC office of Jones Day, one of the nation's leading aviation regulatory lawyers; a man of extraordinary intellect, integrity and humility. Held both of the nation's two top aviation regulatory positions under President George W. Bush. Was a recognized authority on legal issues relating to modernizing air traffic control, aviation and aerospace regulation, aviation and climate change, foreign market access, computerized travel distribution. 
From 2006 until 2008, was Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Aviation and International Affairs; from 2003 to 2006 was Chief Counsel of the Federal Aviation Administration. He was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Travelocity.com from inception of the company in 2000 until 2003. From 1996 to 2000 he was Executive Vice President and General Counsel of SABRE, which he guided through separation from American Airlines to a public company in 2000. From 1990 to 1996 held senior legal positions at American Airlines, as Associate General Counsel for employment and environmental and Senior Attorney for antitrust. Prior to 1990 Andy was an associate in the Los Angeles office of Gibson, Dunn, and Crutcher, practicing antitrust and commercial litigation. During his tenure at the U.S. Dept of Transportation, led the department's efforts to secure open skies agreement with the E.U. and helped negotiate agreement with China that doubled the number of routes between China and the U.S. With U.S. Depts. of State and Treasury, directed the Civil Aviation delegation of the first China-U.S. Strategic Economic Dialogue (SED) in 2006 led by then-Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson. He led the U.S. delegation in Montreal during the 2007 International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Assembly, defending the U.S. position on aviation and climate change, for which he was later awarded the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award (now known as the Montreal Protocol Award) from the Environmental Protection Agency. At the FAA, promoted the use of satellite based air traffic systems to modernize air traffic control and improve safety in the U.S. and abroad, and was instrumental in spearheading FAA's legal strategy in protracted labor negotiations with air traffic controllers. While at Travelocity, he had the unusual distinction of being awarded a citation from the F.B.I. for work pursuing information about the transactions of an infamous Travelocity customer, Muhammad Atta, a 9/11 hijacker who used Travelocity.com to make reservations for air and car travel in the months leading up to the attacks. That information later proved useful in leading to the arrests of Al-Qaida terrorists in Spain and Germany. Earlier in his career, he represented American Airlines in defeating claims of predatory pricing and monopolization by Continental Airlines and Northwest Airlines. Andy was born in Perth Amboy, NJ, grew up in Scarsdale and graduated from Edgemont High School. He earned his A.B. from Princeton in 1980, and J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1984, after teaching English in Japan through Princeton-in-Asia. He clerked for the Honorable Richard H. Gadbois, Jr., in the U.S. District Court in the Central District of California. Andy served as president of the International Aviation Club of Washington, D.C., on the governing committee of the ABA Air and Space Law Forum, on the Board of the Empower African Children Foundation, and volunteered for Boy Scout Troop 52 in Chevy Chase. Andy loved bicycling around Washington, DC and the country roads near his home in Falls Village. His main hobby was being with his family, sharing music, travel, and well-written comedy; a quick, wry wit, he was a well-qualified critic. A devoted husband and father, Andy leaves and will forever be mourned by his wife Roxann, daughter Madeline and son Malcolm, his brother and sister-in-law, Laurence and Wendy Steinberg, of Philadelphia; his nephew, Benjamin Steinberg, of New York City, and will be sorely missed by friends, colleagues, and admirers worldwide. He was buried in Falls Village, CT; a memorial service will be held in Washington DC at a later date. Memorial contributions to The Eye Cancer Research Foundation, PO Box 832, Philadelphia, PA 19105

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (92%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (91%); LAWYERS (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (89%); AIRLINES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (83%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TERRORISM (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL LAW (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); AIR QUALITY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); EYE CANCER (73%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); SKIN CANCER (73%); HIJACKING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); AL-QAEDA (60%); ARRESTS (50%)

COMPANY: GIBSON DUNN & CRUTCHER LLP (84%); JONES DAY (58%); TRAVELOCITY.COM INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (50%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (50%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (74%); CANADA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



985 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Sentiment Rises to Highest Level in Four Years

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Consumer sentiment rose to its highest level in more than four years in May as Americans stayed positive about the job market, while higher-income households were optimistic about wage increases, a survey released on Friday showed. 
The survey, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan's index on consumer sentiment, rose to 79.3 from 76.4 in April, topping forecasts for 77.8 and an initial May reading at the same level.
The reading, the final one for May, was the highest level since October 2007.
''Unfortunately, consumer confidence is still extremely vulnerable to a reversal, as occurred in the past two years,'' the director of the survey, Richard T. Curtin, said in a statement.
''While their most optimistic expectation for job growth could go unfulfilled without much harm, if the recent slowdown in job growth persists in the months ahead, it could form the basis for a third retreat in confidence.''
Half of all consumers said the economy had improved during the last year, while buying plans for vehicles and household durables also improved. The gauge of buying plans rose to 132 from 126.
But a substantial gap in how much wages are expected to increase this year showed a divide between lower- and higher-income households.
Those with incomes over $75,000 anticipated a 2 percent income increase in the year ahead, while lower-income households expected just a 0.3 percent gain.
''You've got a variety of forces working on consumer sentiment at this point. You've got obviously concerns about Europe, the economy in general, lower stock prices -- all those are a negative,'' said Scott J. Brown, chief economist at Raymond James in St. Petersburg, Fla.
''But lower gasoline prices are a plus, so I think that's probably part of the factor that you'll see an increase in purchasing power if gasoline prices continue to move down.''
The survey's barometer of current economic conditions rose to 87.2 from 82.9, while its gauge of consumer expectations improved to 74.3 from 72.3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



986 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: A Law Shielded Many Texans When the Housing Bubble Burst

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
ARE government-imposed limits on borrowing a good thing?
It appears that they have worked wonders in Texas.
Statistics compiled by the National Association of Realtors indicate that in only two of the 20 largest metropolitan areas in the United States have the median prices of homes sold returned to 2006 levels -- Houston and Dallas.
Texas would seem to have many advantages over other states. Its unemployment rate has been lower, and high oil prices have helped a principal industry. Home prices rose less there than in many places during the boom, and thus may not have been as inflated. 
But a major difference between Texas and other states during the boom was that Texas required any homeowner seeking to refinance a mortgage or take out a home equity loan to have at least 20 percent equity after taking out the new loan. Moreover, no one could refinance a home mortgage more often than once a year.
The state was not spared all the excesses of the mortgage boom, said John Fleming, the general counsel of the Texas Mortgage Bankers Association, who also teaches consumer credit law at the University of Texas School of Law. ''We had the no-documentation loans, the option-ARM loans and all the others,'' he said, referring to loans made to borrowers who did not provide evidence of income or assets, and to adjustable-rate mortgages with low initial interest rates and low required monthly payments.
There were no limits on how much a bank could lend to someone buying a home, and in some parts of Texas, subdivisions sold with easy-credit loans have been devastated by foreclosures since prices fell.
But it was not possible for Texas homeowners to take out all their equity when credit was easy and prices high. As a result, people who bought their homes before prices peaked are less likely to owe more than the home is now worth, and less likely to be forced to sell.
The accompanying charts show the national median sales price for existing homes from the end of 2000 through April of this year, as well as prices in the 20 largest metropolitan areas. The national figure rose in April to the highest level since the summer of 2010, as is indicated in the top chart.
The monthly figures can be volatile, since more homes may sell in higher-priced areas in one month, and more in lower-cost areas in another. To smooth the figures, an average of the median prices for the most recent 12 months is also shown. It, too, has begun to rise.
The Realtors group also calculates median sales prices in many metropolitan areas on a quarterly basis. The charts compare prices in 2006 with the average of the four most recent quarters in the 20 largest areas. Most areas are down sharply. In all likelihood, the declines are caused in part by declines in the housing market and in part by a shift in the mix, so that more lower-priced homes are being sold.
In some markets, the median price is no doubt depressed by the fact that many foreclosed homes, often in poor condition, have come onto the market. It is likely that the Texas areas look better in part because the home equity law -- which is in the State Constitution -- prevented many homeowners from getting in over their heads.
How did Texas end up with such a law? Mr. Fleming said that when Texas was being settled, its founder, Stephen F. Austin, got the Legislature of Coahuila, the Mexican state that included Texas, to protect land purchasers from having their homes seized to pay off other debts they had incurred. He feared that settlers from the East would otherwise be chased by creditors. Similar provisions have been in every Texas State Constitution.
Until 1997, home equity loans were not legal at all in Texas, to the dismay of banks. In that year, voters approved a provision passed by the Legislature that allowed such loans, but set forth the limits still in force.
Banks are preparing to push to amend the law, Mr. Fleming said in an interview. They say that some homeowners with home equity loans have been unable to refinance high-interest-rate loans because a current appraisal shows their equity is now less than 20 percent.
But there appears to be widespread support for retaining the limit, at least on new home equity loans. There are many people in Texas who might have lost their homes had there been no such limit, and many in other states who might have kept theirs had a similar law been in effect across the country.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Hints of a Bottom in Home Prices: The median price of existing homes sold in the United States in April was $178,000, the National Association of Realtors reported this week. While the monthly figures are volatile, that was the highest figure in 20 months, and the average of the 12 most recent figures has also begun to rise. Only in the two major Texas markets, however, are median prices now at or above where they were in 2006. (Source: National Association of Realtors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); CREDIT REGULATION (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); LAWYERS (68%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (93%); HOUSTON TEXANS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



987 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Decline in the Markets Amid Concern for Spain

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks fell on Friday, trimming the first weekly gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since April, as concern about Spain's finances outweighed optimism from an early report that American consumer confidence rose to a four-year high in May.
Industrial, commodity and financial companies had the biggest declines in the S.& P. 500 among 10 groups. Boeing, JPMorgan Chase and Chevron retreated to pace losses in the largest companies. Facebook tumbled 3.4 percent after a two-day advance. 
The S.& P. 500 decreased 2.9 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,317.82. The benchmark measure for United States equities gained 1.7 percent this week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 74.92 points, or 0.60 percent, to 12,454.83. About five billion shares changed hands on United States exchanges, the fewest this year. Markets close on Monday for the Memorial Day holiday.
''It's tough,'' said Rick Fier, director of equity trading at Conifer Securities in New York. ''America is doing great, yet Europe is a real disaster. Where it ends? Who knows.''
Spain is analyzing requests from its regional governments to help them regain access to capital markets, the deputy prime minister, Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said Friday. Catalonia's government said it was complying ''strictly'' with its budget program and would honor its commitments. The Bankia group, a Spanish lender that was nationalized earlier this month, will seek 19 billion euros ($23.88 billion) of government funds.
In the United States, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment climbed to 79.3 in May, beating estimates.
More than $1 trillion was erased from United States equity values this month amid uncertainties over Greece's permanence in the euro. The S.& P. 500 has slumped 5.7 percent since the end of April and was headed for its second monthly decline, the longest losing streak since September.
''People are wondering if there are other skeletons in Spain's regional government closets,'' said Russ Koesterich, the San Francisco-based global chief investment strategist for the IShares unit of BlackRock Inc. ''Greece is critical, but relatively small in the euro zone. The same cannot be said of Spain.''
Mark Lehmann, president of JMP Securities, said that investors seemed reluctant to take risk even as the United States stock market looked attractive. The S.& P. 500 trades at 13.3 times reported earnings, below the average since 1954 of 16.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
About 71 percent of companies in the benchmark index that reported first-quarter results beat estimates. ''It's very vanilla right now,'' Mr. Lehmann said in a telephone interview from San Francisco. ''I don't think there's anybody getting wildly bullish or wildly bearish. The U.S. economy is in better shape, corporate balance sheets are in better shape. Yet the fear of the unknown is taking over.''
Eight out of 10 groups in the S.& P. 500 fell on Friday. Boeing retreated 2 percent to $70. JPMorgan declined 1.4 percent to $33.50. Chevron dropped 1.2 percent to $98.86.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 10/32, to 100 1/32, and the yield fell to 1.75 percent from 1.78 percent late Thursday.
Talbots fell 41 percent, the most ever, to $1.51. The company ended talks to be bought by Sycamore Partners for $215 million.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); EURO ZONE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EURO (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (64%)

COMPANY: BLACKROCK INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); BOEING CO (57%); JMP GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: BLK (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); JMP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (96%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



988 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Winemaking Lures the Wealthy, but Not With Profits

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
IF there is one investment that has more to do with the heart than the head, it's vineyards. It is also one that lends itself to jokes whose punch lines are always about losing money.
But that risk has never deterred wealthy people. Nor has the current economic malaise damped their spirits. These are people who made fortunes in profitable industries like shower doors and title insurance but define success in the winemaking business as breaking even. And most seem to accept the prospect of losing a manageable amount of money over many years.
Don Ross, founder and chairman of Cardinal Shower Enclosures, offers a particularly telling example. He bought 2.5 acres in the Napa Valley in 2003. It came with rows of cabernet sauvignon vines. A lifelong wine lover -- he has 7,000 bottles in his cellar -- he started making wine under the label Shibumi Knoll. Then, he bought some chardonnay grapes from another vineyard and made that, too.
The business was going along modestly until 2005, when Mr. Ross gave a bottle of the chardonnay to his golf pro who passed it on to his next client, an influential wine critic. That critic later rated the wine a 97 out of 100 in a blind tasting, and Mr. Ross's phone started to ring. 
Today, his wine is served at the French Laundry and other fine restaurants in Napa Valley and one in Tennessee, and he sells the rest through his wine club. You would think Mr. Ross has a profitable side business. Alas, no.
''This wine business, we don't make any money,'' Mr. Ross said. ''I do it for love. I sell shower doors for money.''
He said the costs of making a high-quality but small-production wine make it difficult to turn a profit. There are the salaries of the vineyard manager and the winemaker and also the costs of the bottles, labels and corks, which, he said, are $2 each.
Yet Mr. Ross's story is far from a cautionary tale in the wine-growing regions of California. It is more of a model.
Larry Hayes, whose company Mulberry Trample specializes in discreetly selling a producer's excess wine so the prices of labeled bottles do not drop, said aspiring winemakers would be better off buying a piece of land they like and letting that dictate what wine gets made.
He said the big risk for most wealthy enthusiasts is buying too much land too quickly at too high a price and then thinking that they will be able to get whatever wine they make distributed to wine stores.
''These people really don't have the access or the ability to get distribution through the wine distribution network,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''It's a tough, tough deal. Everyone wants brands that they know. If you're a small producer, that distribution is not available to you. And if you get in, you're not the biggest fish in that pond.''
Many people think if they can get a high score, as Mr. Ross did, then everything will be set. But a good review is not something that can be bought.
Aaron Pott, a winemaker and consultant in Napa Valley, said he received calls all the time from people saying they wanted to make a 100-point wine and were willing to pay to do it.
''My first warning is, don't go into the business looking for a certain score,'' he said. ''If you're unrealistic, you're going to be disappointed.''
Mr. Pott, who charges a monthly consulting fee of $8,000, said he weeded out people who did not have their own vineyards but figured they could buy the grapes they needed to make their wine. ''You're giving them false hopes,'' he said. ''If they're just buying fruit from someone else, it's not very long-lasting. The contracts could end or the prices could go up.''
Even winemakers who seem to be doing everything right struggle with distribution. Bill Foley, who made his fortune in title insurance and other real estate businesses, owns nine wineries in California, one in Washington State and two in New Zealand, and he hopes to buy five more on the West Coast. This year, his Foley Family Wines will sell 1.3 million cases.
His distribution, he said, ''rides along with Sebastiani,'' a lower-end brand. His high-end Chalk Hill wines, with 40,000 cases a year, would be a blip on a distributor's screen without the Sebastiani association.
Still, he said he was running his wine business as he did Fidelity National Financial, a holding company he helped build. When he buys a vineyard -- he is known in wine circles for his acquisitiveness -- he consolidates all the back-office operations, like accounting and wine club management, to free up resources to promote and improve the wines.
Having spent tens, if not hundreds of millions, of dollars buying wineries since 2007, he has yet to turn a profit, but the wineries are at least covering their costs. Still, he said he was glad he had done it. ''When you're out in the vineyards, drinking your own wines, with your kids, it's fun,'' Mr. Foley said.
Of all the winemakers and vineyard owners I spoke to, the one who has the least risky and most sustainable model of building his business was Fred Schweiger. The only catch was it took him 51 years to get Schweiger Vineyards where it is today.
Mr. Schweiger, who owned a construction company until two years ago, bought the original eight acres in 1961 for $250,000; he said that parcel alone is now worth $3.2 million.
In the intervening years, he cleared the land, planted the vineyards and built all the structures himself on what is now a 55-acre property. Before the vineyard started making its own wine in 1994, he sold the grapes to other wineries at a profit.
All along, he paid cash for every expansion until 2002, when he borrowed $2.5 million to upgrade equipment in the winery. By then, he said, that loan was only 10 percent of the value of the vineyard.
''From an economic point of view, it takes 16 to 20 years to make a profit,'' Mr. Schweiger said. ''I didn't hear that until we were in the winery business for five or six years. It wasn't until last year that we made a profit.''
For those with less patience, there are other ways to try to reduce the risk and financial outlay. Some people eschew the romance of roaming through their own fields and just set up a winery to make and sell wine.
John Sweazey, who made his money in the mortgage business, said he wanted a winery only after he sold his company in 2003. He bought one in Sonoma and called it Anaba.
''Vineyards didn't appeal to me because I never really wanted to be a farmer,'' he said. ''Farmers are never happy.''
But he found a different set of challenges in having a stand-alone winery.
''Making high-quality wine was easier to do than selling high-quality wine,'' he said. ''This brand came out with an unknown name in mid-2008 and we struggled.''
Six years into the venture, though, he said the winery was approaching the break-even mark, but it took twice as long as he planned.
One thing these businessmen-vintners share is an amateur's enthusiasm. They have enough money to hire experts and the business sense to watch profits and losses. It would be easy to criticize investing in vineyards as a rich man's vanity. But it has always taken a lot of money to make wine. And, on occasion, that investment pays off.
Andre Mentzelopoulos, who made his fortune in real estate and grocery stores, made a good bet. He bought Chateau Margaux, one of the most important French vineyards, in 1977. At the time, there had been a string of bad vintages in Bordeaux, and the chateau had lingered on the market for two years.
His daughter Corinne said he paid about $15 million for Chateau Margaux and spent the last three years of his life and many millions of dollars on renovations and reviving a great wine. In 1982, two years after he died and Ms. Mentzelopoulos took over, the vintage was called superb by the critic Robert Parker, and the lust for Bordeaux was on.
Ms. Mentzelopoulos said that despite all her family's success -- a 2003 transaction valued the chateau at $587 million -- she still worried.
''You can't predict anything,'' Ms. Mentzelopoulos said. ''I don't know the quantity or the quality of the 2012 vintage. I don't know my sales or my profit. And if it rained from now until October, there would be no wine to speak of, yet the investment I have to make is still the same.''
It is no wonder that she said that the only time she relaxed was when ''the grapes are nice and safe in the cellar.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Don Ross at his Shibumi Knoll winery. Though his chardonnay is highly rated, Mr. Ross said his winery was not profitable. ''I do it for love,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); GOLF (66%); TITLE INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



989 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: The Costs Of a Stand For Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
In the months leading up to North Carolina's vote this month to ban gay marriage, most of the state's business leaders were conspicuously silent. While some executives spoke out against it as individuals, not one Fortune 500 company based in North Carolina, including Bank of America, Duke Energy, VF Corporation and Lowe's, opposed it.
But one company did: Replacements Limited, which sells silver, china and glassware, and is based in Greensboro. Its founder and chairman, Bob Page, is gay. The company lobbied legislators, contributed money to causes supporting gay marriage, rented a billboard along the interstate near its headquarters, and sold T-shirts at its showroom. Its experience may explain why no other for-profit company followed its example.
Hostile letters and e-mails poured into the company from customers canceling their business and demanding to be removed from its e-mail list. ''I understand that your company donated $250,000 or so to the effort to ban the marriage amendment,'' read one. ''I am very concerned that with an increased visibility and acceptance of the gay and lesbian lifestyle, one of my children, who would have grown up and been happily married to a husband, could be tempted to the lesbian lifestyle.'' 
Another read: ''I was excited to see your wares and expected a pleasant shopping experience. Instead I was accosted by your political views, which I do not share. It was very uncomfortable and unpleasant browsing with all those signs and T-shirts against amendment one, to the point where I had to leave.''
A third said, ''Money you used to support this opposition came from my many purchases from your company and that is not O.K. with me,'' adding, ''I will look for my replacement pieces elsewhere.''
Several writers seemed more sad than angry. ''Visiting Replacements Limited has always been one of my favorite treats,'' said one. ''I had the privilege of experiencing your beautiful store firsthand,'' began another. Both said they would never return.
Andrew Spainhour, Replacement's general counsel and a member of the steering committee that organized opposition to the amendment, tried to recruit other businesses. ''I had a lot of phone calls and e-mails that weren't returned,'' he said. ''If I did have a conversation, they'd say, 'Gosh, we can't do this, we can't go out on a limb.' There's a tremendous amount of fear.''
The company did get a few letters and e-mails of support, but the outpouring against its stand shows that the subject of gay marriage ''is hugely divisive in our state,'' Mr. Spainhour said. ''It's exposed a lot of fault lines. It's a natural reaction for people to say, 'We're not going to anger 50 percent of the people that we do business with or want to do business with.' There's too much downside.''
Mr. Spainhour said he worried about Mr. Page's safety, and has discussed his concerns with him. He mentioned Charles C. Worley, pastor of the Providence Road Baptist Church in Maiden, N.C., not far from Greensboro, who preached on May 13 that lesbians and gays should be separated from each other and society and quarantined behind electrified fences. ''In a few years, they'll die out,'' Mr. Worley said. ''They can't reproduce.'' Video of the sermon circulated on the Internet.
''Bob has been absolutely fearless in the face of that,'' Mr. Spainhour said. ''It's a North Carolina that exists but that I don't recognize. There are two North Carolinas: the progressive cities and college towns, and places where there are no openly gay people.''
Much the same could be said of America as a whole. Although recent polls suggest a majority of Americans favor legalizing gay marriage in their state, those who do are concentrated in the Northeast and on the West Coast. But even in those states most hostile to the idea, support for gay marriage has grown strongly over the last decade.
Most companies have traditionally tried to avoid taking positions on political and social issues. But corporate involvement in campaigns to support gay marriage has mirrored the shift in the nation's attitudes, from nonexistent 10 years ago to some involvement by major companies in 2008, when Apple, American Apparel, Google and Levi Strauss publicly opposed California's Proposition 8 to ban gay marriage (it passed). Last year, corporate support in New York was deemed critical to the Legislature's passage of a law allowing gay marriage. This year, major corporations based in Washington State, led by Amazon, Starbucks and Microsoft, have publicly opposed an effort to repeal the state's law permitting gay marriage, scheduled to take effect on June 7.
Mr. Page, 67, said he didn't like politics and wasn't ''extreme,'' or ''in your face'' about being gay. But, he added: ''I just refuse to hide. I did that way too many years and it's just not healthy.''
At the same time, he said: ''I'm always concerned I will hurt our business. I know we have lost business. But I don't have a board or shareholders I have to answer to. My life is not about money.''
Mr. Page drives a Ford Explorer with 146,000 miles on it and said he had never paid more than $10 for a shirt. His father was a tobacco farmer with a ninth-grade education and his family of six lived in three rooms with no indoor bathroom. He attended the Happy Home United Church of Christ with his family and earned a 10-year attendance pin. ''I prayed that God would not make me this way,'' he said. Mr. Page served two years in the Army and was the only member of his family to attend college, graduating from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
''I could not deal with being gay,'' he said. ''I didn't know anyone who was gay. I never discussed how I felt with anybody straight through the Army. At one time, I hoped I would go to Vietnam and get killed. I contemplated suicide. I never felt I measured up to everybody else. Sometimes, I still feel that way.''
Mr. Page liked to go to flea markets, and in 1981 he left his job as an auditor for the state of North Carolina to start an antique china and glassware mail-order business. The Small Business Administration told him not to bother applying for a loan. ''Selling used dishes for a living? People thought I was crazy,'' Mr. Page said. He scraped up enough money to open the business with one part-time assistant.
Five years later, lonely and still in the closet, Mr. Page placed a personal ad. Dale Frederiksen, a math teacher from Tennessee, responded, and they spent several months talking on the phone. Finally they met. They traveled back and forth until Mr. Frederiksen said he'd have to make a decision about whether to move to North Carolina. ''I can't make that decision for you,'' Mr. Page said. Mr. Frederiksen moved.
When Mr. Page finally told his parents he was gay, they were supportive. His two brothers and their families are also ''pretty accepting,'' he said. His sister and her daughters ''think I and my partner are going to hell.''
''I've always loved children and wanted a family,'' Mr. Page said. In 1999 he and Mr. Frederiksen traveled to Vietnam where Mr. Page adopted twin boys (North Carolina bans adoption by gay couples, but not by single parents.). An article in the local News and Record, ''Partners in Parenthood,'' chronicled their struggle to change diapers and prompted angry letters from readers. ''I'd lie awake at night and I was in so much pain and agony that I couldn't sleep,'' Mr. Page remembered. ''They suggested we wanted to adopt children so we could molest them. Even though we don't know these people, it still hurts.''
The visibility led to growing public awareness that Mr. Page is gay. Fifteen years ago, he was invited to speak at nearby Elon University, and a student asked him about his sexual orientation. ''I was so nervous I was trembling,'' he said. Now, ''I'm very comfortable speaking out. But there are people who will tell you I'm the Devil's advocate here on earth.''
Despite this month's lopsided vote in favor of the amendment (it passed by a margin of 20 percentage points), Mr. Page said that he considered his money well spent, and that tolerance in North Carolina, while it may have a long way to go, has improved. ''I love children, and it tears me apart when I think about these young kids and teens who are committing suicide, like the young guy at Rutgers who jumped off the bridge. This doesn't have to happen. I want things to be better for other people than it was for me. I truly hope things will be better, and I want to do my part to make things better for those coming after us.''
Today their twins are 13. Mr. Page and Mr. Frederiksen have been together 23 years. Replacements has annual revenue of $80 million and employs 450 people, all in North Carolina. Mr. Page was named North Carolina's small-business person of the year by the Small Business Administration in 1986. The company was included in Inc. Magazine's ''Inc. 500'' in 1986 and Fast Company's ''Fast 50'' in 2004. It has received numerous workplace awards and was cited in 2002 by the Advocate magazine as one of the top 10 gay-friendly companies in America. Hundreds of local construction workers completed an expansion that nearly doubled the size of its warehouse to 500,000 square feet. It holds over 13 million items.
Angry e-mails and letters notwithstanding, and despite the weak economy, Mr. Page said 2011 was one of the best in the company's history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I just refuse to hide. I did that way too many years and it's just not healthy,'' said Bob Page, the chief of Replacements Limited. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN VAN BEEKUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); LOBBYING (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (74%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CORPORATE GIVING (73%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: REPLACEMENTS LTD (73%); VF CORP (72%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: VFC (NYSE) (72%); DUK (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (73%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (72%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



990 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Albany's Unkindest Cut of All

BYLINE: By BILLY EASTON. 
Billy Easton is the executive director of the Alliance for Quality Education.

 BODY:
Albany
IN most states, top-ranked high school seniors are shoo-ins to attend their local state universities. But that's not how it goes in New York these days. In one recent, glaring case, the valedictorian of a rural school district outside Rochester was rejected by a nearby State University of New York campus -- not because her grades were too low, but because her high school didn't offer the courses needed to compete for college admission.
Such stories are becoming increasingly common across New York State. Poor school districts are being forced to cut electives, remedial tutoring, foreign languages and other programs and services to balance budgets. Many schools in less prosperous areas face what the state commissioner of education calls ''educational insolvency.'' 
The obvious losers are students, who will be less prepared for graduation, college and their careers. But ultimately, all New Yorkers will suffer as the lack of skilled workers becomes a long-term drain on economic activity across the state.
Only five years ago, the state committed to pumping $5.5 billion into classrooms, with 72 percent slated for the neediest schools, whether in urban, rural or suburban communities. This commitment, similar to those made in other states, came after 13 years of litigation by the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, based on the state Constitution's guarantee of a ''sound, basic education'' for all students. Unfortunately, that progressive commitment was abandoned as the state faced fiscal hard times.
New York started cutting education resources in 2009. The federal government stepped in that year with stimulus money directed at schools, which temporarily cushioned the blow, but was not enough to stop the onset of classroom cuts.
The problem grew worse in 2010 and 2011, when Albany made $2.7 billion in school aid cuts, resulting in the loss of 30,000 educators and increased class sizes at two-thirds of the state's schools.
The program cuts ranged from summer school to Advanced Placement courses, but the cuts have been harshest in poor communities. Over all, cuts to poor and middle-class schools were two to three times larger per pupil than those imposed on wealthy schools.
For example, Poughkeepsie, with a student poverty rate of 80 percent, has cut its full-day kindergarten to a half day, while wealthy Jericho offers high school classes in fashion design and civil engineering. Scarsdale offers 22 Advanced Placement courses, while poor and rural Massena, in New York's North Country, offers only two, even though many colleges now give A.P. courses greater weight than S.A.T. scores in admissions.
On top of the multiyear cuts, the state has made it harder for school districts to get more money. A new statewide cap on how high local revenues can be raised is further exacerbating educational inequities. The cap limits property tax hikes to 2 percent, which may sound fair but actually contributes to school inequality: the permitted tax increase raises a lot more revenue from million-dollar homes for wealthy schools than it raises on $100,000 homes for poorer schools. And a newly implemented cap on increases in state education aid means that even with a slight restoration of state aid this year, schools are still forced to make cuts.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has been the most vocal proponent both of cutting and capping state school aid and of capping local revenues. He has dismissed the impact that cuts and caps would have on schools -- a position that becomes harder to maintain as district after district reports dire circumstances.
Simultaneously, Mr. Cuomo has been a proponent of trendy ''market reforms,'' like increasing the role of standardized tests in evaluating teachers and using the same tests to make school districts compete with one another for resources. These so-called reforms may be cheaper, but they are no substitute for the proven programs that are being cut.
Around the world, countries with the top-performing schools, like Finland, Singapore and Canada, all emphasize equity in school financing to provide added resources for schools in poorer communities. These international leaders also emphasize ensuring that all students have access to a high-quality curriculum and providing all teachers with support to continuously improve their skills -- instead of forcing teachers and schools to compete for artificially limited pools of money.
Governor Cuomo has promoted himself as a leader in education policy. His mastery of Albany's famously dysfunctional politics has made him one of the nation's rising political stars. But the results in the classroom do not match his rhetoric -- and unless our state government changes course on education funding policy, they never will.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CLASS RANKING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGETS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); POVERTY RATES (66%); SUBURBS (66%); TAX INCREASES (60%); ENGINEERING (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (55%); LITIGATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



991 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Frustration in New U.S. Effort to Help Homeowners

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
As mortgage rates have hit one record low after another, millions of homeowners have been forced to watch, longingly, from the sidelines. They haven't had the option of refinancing because sliding home values pushed their mortgages underwater, meaning they owe more than their homes are worth. The banks would just not work with them.
Yet many of these borrowers are gainfully employed, have solid credit histories and have never missed a mortgage payment. And they want to stay in their homes -- even if those homes are worth substantially less than they paid. These are the families that President Obama and other political leaders like to call ''responsible'' homeowners.
The government's initial effort, back in 2009, to ease refinancing rules to include them was underwhelming. Now, though, there may be reason for some guarded optimism, as the machinery for a new and improved government refinancing program is finally up and running. And this glimmer of hope for underwater homeowners -- as well as borrowers with only a small sliver of home equity -- has resulted in a rush of loan applications (even if they are unlikely to secure the lowest, rock-bottom interest rates). 
''The updated program is still far from perfect, but most people, both consumers and those in the mortgage industry, would say it's a huge improvement from what we had in the past,'' said Guy D. Cecala, publisher of the newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. ''But the bar was very, very low with the old program.''
The rules for the initial program were restrictive. Partly as a result, only a little more than a million borrowers were helped, far short of the four million to five million initially predicted. So the government tried again, announcing the second iteration of the Home Affordable Refinance Program last fall -- called HARP 2.0. It's too soon to tell whether this latest version will be more successful or whether it, too, will end up in the dust bin of homeowner programs that overpromise and underdeliver.
From the perspective of big banks, borrowers have reason to be hopeful, though they need to be patient. The banks have been inundated with HARP applications -- accounting for about 60 percent of all current refinancing applications at Bank of America and 40 percent at Wells Fargo -- because of pent-up demand. Many institutions have added staff to handle the volume, and they have a big incentive to keep them motivated: analysts say they stand to make a tidy profit on the business.
But some homeowners and mortgage brokers are telling another story: one of frustration and still more obstacles. They say they've found that the program's rules on paper don't necessarily translate to the real world.
One of them is Terrence Janas, a 31-year-old software engineer, who bought a two-bedroom condominium in Oak Park, Ill., in 2008 for $280,000. Two virtually identical units recently sold for $150,000; one was a short sale. That has pushed his $237,000 mortgage far underwater; it's now 158 percent of what his home is worth. He has a healthy income, a credit score of about 760, and simply wanted to reduce his 6 percent mortgage rate.
''HARP was designed to help people in my situation,'' said Mr. Janas, who has been trying to refinance for more than a year. ''So why was I unable to take advantage of it?''
He said his application was denied by his current lender, GMAC, and about five others. Their reasons ran the gamut. GMAC told him it was because he had lender-paid mortgage insurance. Another told him that his ''loan-to-value ratio'' was too high -- that is, the loan amount, divided by the home's value -- even though HARP 2.0 eliminated the cap. (Previously, only borrowers with ratios of 125 percent or less, meaning they owed 25 percent more than their homes were worth, could refinance.) Another told him he was not eligible for an appraisal waiver, and would need to get one showing that the property was worth at least $206,000, which Mr. Janas knew was unlikely.
But he is still trying, and is now working with a smaller lender who is more optimistic about his prospects. ''I haven't given up,'' said Mr. Janas, who is getting married next month and would like to pocket the $400 a month he expects to save with a lower rate.
Still, the number of success stories is edging higher. In the first quarter, HARP loans accounted for about 14 percent of all refinancing activity on loans backed or owned by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. That's up from about 12 percent of refinancing activity for each of the last two years.
According to the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Fannie and Freddie's regulator, HARP 2.0 has only been fully available since mid-March, ''and the early results are dramatic,'' said Meg Burns, a senior associate director at the agency. About 180,000 loans were refinanced through the program in the first quarter, nearly double the 93,000 loans in the fourth quarter of 2011. Refinancing among borrowers with loans that are more than 105 percent of their home's value has increased to 41,000 during the first quarter, up from 13,000 in the fourth quarter.
So how can you gauge your chances of refinancing your mortgage through the HARP 2.0 program?
First, you need to meet some basic requirements: Your mortgage must have been owned or guaranteed by Fannie or Freddie, and it must have been sold to either one before May 31, 2009. You must also have less than 20 percent equity in your home (that is, a loan-to-value ratio above 80 percent). And you cannot have had any late payments in the last six months, and no more than one late payment in the last year. HARP is also generally a one-shot deal: this has to be your first HARP refinancing.
Shopping around for a HARP refinancing may be frustrating, however, particularly if you're trying to compare prices among the big banks. That's because many of them, including Bank of America, Chase and Citigroup, are providing HARP refinancing only for their own customers. Why? Experts say it is still riskier for the banks to take on new customers, particularly those who are far underwater. It also makes sense for the banks to start with their existing clients, and several are expected to begin marketing campaigns aimed at them next month. But the regulator of Fannie and Freddie said that it should not make a difference whether a new or existing customer was seeking to refinance because it relaxed the rules that leave the banks responsible should a loan sour. Still, experts said, the lack of competition among banks has led to higher prices. It varies by lender, but HARP borrowers could pay more on their interest rate than with conventional refinancing, according to Laurie S. Goodman, a senior managing director at Amherst Securities Group. ''The economics of origination would suggest lower rates are in order,'' Ms. Goodman said, because mortgage servicers that are refinancing existing customers are relieved of certain risks. Nor, she said, do they have to do much to document the new loans since they already have the customers' information. ''And borrowers have little choice but to pay the higher rates.''
Wells Fargo is working with both new and old customers -- though it isn't accepting new customers with mortgage insurance since it can be difficult to transfer the insurance to the new loan. (Experts said there had been problems reported with some mortgage insurers refusing to reassign its insurance to the new HARP loan.) And if Wells buys a loan from a smaller bank or broker, it must have a loan-to-value ratio of 105 percent or less, meaning the borrower cannot be more than 5 percent underwater. Those limits do not apply to Wells's own customers.
Besides mortgage insurance, experts said, some borrowers have run into trouble or long delays if they have second mortgages. To complete the refinancing, the second lender needs to agree to remain second in line should the new loan default. Other experts said this hasn't been a problem, particularly if the same bank holds both loans.
All the nuances that exist from lender to lender make it hard to figure out the best course to take. Rick Cason, a branch manager at Integrity Mortgage, a mortgage firm in Orlando, Fla., said he had been working with about 30 customers since March, and many of them were being denied by Fannie's and Freddie's automated underwriting systems, even though they meet the program's new guidelines on paper. In some cases, he said he has found that reducing credit card debt has helped, even though the customers were within the allowed debt-to-income ratio limits.
Legislation was recently introduced by Senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Barbara Boxer of California, both Democrats, that would extend the program's rules to homeowners with more than 20 percent equity, in part because the HARP program has fewer refinancing fees.
For now, it's clear that borrowers, particularly those with more complicated financial situations or homes that are far underwater, may need to be persistent. In fact, starting on June 1, lenders will be able to securitize, or sell loans that are valued at more than 125 percent of the underlying home's worth, which may provide more opportunities for homeowners significantly underwater.
''If someone says 'no' now, it doesn't necessarily mean 'no' three months from now,'' said Joe Kelly, president of youcanrefi.com and a vice president of Access National Mortgage in Reston, Va.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terrence Janas at his condo in Illinois, which is worth less than he owes on his mortgage. Several big lenders denied his mortgage application for aid under the new federal HARP 2.0 program. (B1)
 Terrence Janas's condo building. HARP 2.0 is intended for homeowners with solid credit who haven't missed a mortgage payment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



992 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: From Dogs, a Liability Bite

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Inspector Clouseau got lots of laughs when he was bitten by a mutt in a classic scene from the movie ''The Pink Panther Strikes Again.'' But in real life, aggressive dogs can be a big problem. Dog bite claims account for more than a third of all homeowner's insurance liability claims paid out, according to an insurance industry group. 
That proportion has remained roughly constant over the last decade, according to Loretta Worters of the Insurance Information Institute. And the number of claims has hovered around 15,000 to 16,000 annually over the last 10 years, though with an uptick last year. But the average cost per claim was more than $29,000 in 2011, an increase of 25 percent in eight years (after accounting for inflation), mostly because of increases in medical costs. State Farm says it paid out more than $109 million as a result of 3,800 dog bite claims last year.
Homeowner's liability insurance covers you for injuries or damage to someone else -- say, someone slipping on your icy steps in winter, or your dog biting the neighbor's child when he comes over to play with your child. (Or, if your dog bites someone while you're out walking it in the park.)
''If your dog bites somebody, you are liable,'' said Robert Hartwig III, president of the institute.
The institute, along with other organizations like the United States Postal Service, are publicizing dog bite statistics to highlight National Dog Bite Prevention Week.
Typically, homeowner's and renter's insurance cover dog liability as part of the policy's standard coverage with limits up to $100,000 or $300,000. Most companies will insure homeowners with dogs, but once a dog has bitten someone, your premium may go up -- or the dog may be excluded from coverage. Still others require the owner to take the dog to behavior modification classes to continue coverage.
To prevent dog bites in the first place, experts offer these tips:
Check with a professional, like a veterinarian or breeder, to learn about suitable dog breeds.
Spend time with a dog before buying or adopting it, and use caution when bringing a dog into a home with an infant or toddler.
Have your dog spayed or neutered.
Seek professional advice if your dog develops aggressive behavior.
Discourage children from bothering a dog when it is eating or sleeping. (The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says more than half of the 4.7 million Americans bitten by dogs annually are children.)
Never approach a strange dog, especially one that's tethered or confined, and avoid eye contact with a dog that appears threatening.
Don't run past a dog.
If you are knocked down by a dog, curl into a ball and protect your face with your hands.
Have you ever been bitten by a dog? Or has your dog ever bitten someone?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: State Farm Insurance says it paid over $109 million in liability claims for about 3,800 dog bite claims nationwide last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BITES & STINGS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); DOGS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (89%); CHILDREN (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); RENTERS INSURANCE (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (53%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



993 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: China's Uncertainties May Drive Wave of Nationalism

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Mia Li, Owen Guo and Zhang Wei contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- As an English-speaking talk show host on China Central Television, Yang Rui likes to think of himself as a bridge between East and West.
He has a soft spot for tweed newsboy caps and Sherlock Holmes-style pipes and takes pride in his communications degree from Cardiff University in Wales. He may exult in China's growing might, but made sure his son attended college in the United States. His program on the state-run CCTV, ''Dialogue,'' often includes both foreign and Chinese guests.
''I have to remind myself that I'm not representing myself,'' he once remarked. ''I'm representing the image of a country.''
But this week Mr. Yang revealed another side of his persona in a torrent of microblog messages that derided some foreigners as ''trash'' and accused Western men of seducing local women in an effort to spy on China. 
''The Ministry of Public Security must clean out foreign trash, arrest foreign thugs and protect innocent girls,'' he wrote to his 820,000 followers. ''Behead the snakeheads, the unemployed Americans and Europeans who come to China to make money, traffic in people and mislead the public by encouraging them to emigrate.''
Mr. Yang's comments aggravated what many residents from abroad say is an increasingly palpable rush of antiforeign hostility that often quietly coexists, paradoxically, alongside effusive admiration for the West. Two ugly situations involving foreigners have helped stoke the antipathy.
In one, a Russian-born cellist with the Beijing Symphony Orchestra was captured on video using boorish language to attack a fellow train passenger who objected to him putting his bare feet on her seat. Despite a videotaped apology, he was fired this past week.
The more serious case involved a drunken British tourist apparently sexually assaulting a Chinese woman on a Beijing street. The video, also posted on the Internet, showed a group of passers-by pummeling the man into unconsciousness.
In the days that followed, the police in Beijing announced a 100-day campaign to rid the country of foreigners who are living or working in China illegally. The initiative, promoted through banners and articles in the state news media, encourages citizens to report those suspected of violating the law to the authorities.
Whether coincidental or not, the campaign dovetails with a fusillade of attacks in the state news media. Xinhua, the state-run news agency, ran an editorial at the top of its home page last week that accused other governments of using reporters from their countries to ''tactically control'' China's image in the overseas news media.
On Friday, People's Daily, the ruling Communist Party mouthpiece and a political weather vane, described Western efforts to export democracy and human rights to China as a new form of colonialism. ''They are evil acts that would harm society,'' the article said.
Analysts suggest the rising nationalist sentiment may be related to a spate of events that have unnerved the Chinese leadership, including territorial disputes in the South China Sea, a sharply slowing domestic economy and the political turmoil prompted by the downfall of the populist up-and-comer Bo Xilai. Mr. Bo, accused of corruption and violating party discipline, is in detention and awaiting his fate, as is his wife, Gu Kailai, who is implicated in the death of a British businessman. The backdrop for these uncertainties is the once-a-decade change in leadership scheduled for later this year.
While the party has in the past stirred the nationalist caldron during times of uncertainty, some analysts said they thought that following that script today could prove harmful to China when it is trying to burnish its soft power.
''It doesn't help the party's image to be retaliating against foreigners during the leadership transition,'' said Bo Zhiyue, a Chinese political analyst at the East Asian Institute of the National University of Singapore. ''I find the whole campaign puzzling.''
The upshot has been a host of inconveniences for those with foreign passports. In recent weeks, scores of scholars and tourists have had their visa applications rejected by Chinese embassies around the world. In Beijing, foreign journalists are on tenterhooks, wondering whether the expulsion this month of an American correspondent for Al Jazeera is a taste of things to come.
(Mr. Yang, the CCTV host, for one, has called for a crackdown on journalists who ''demonize'' China. He also cheered the departure of the Jazeera reporter, Melissa Chan, with a word that could be charitably translated as ''shrew.'' Mr. Yang did not respond to requests for comment.)
On Friday night, a phalanx of three dozen officers made the rounds of Sanlitun, a neighborhood popular with foreigners. After checking passports at a Mexican restaurant, the officers could be seen leading away an African patron.
Western culture has also taken something of a hit. A joint Chinese-American jazz training program scheduled for June was canceled over ''visa issues.'' Last weekend, the police cited a missing permit when they forced the sudden cancellation of the musical ''Oklahoma!'' -- which was largely cast with non-Chinese and partly financed by the United States Embassy. Desperate organizers found a new location but at substantial cost. The Philadelphia Orchestra, which performs next week at the National Center for Performing Arts in Beijing, has been dismayed to find many of its Chinese corporate sponsors inexplicably backing out at the last minute.
''We're used to periodic crackdowns, but the atmosphere for foreigners seems to be more hysterical than in the past,'' said Jeremiah Jenne, an American researcher and history professor in Beijing who maintains the blog Granite Studio. ''This time feels different, because people are being encouraged to dial in and report their neighbors.''
In addition to the consternation and hand-wringing, foreign residents have expressed bewilderment over the rapid shift in public sentiment. It is a seesawing of emotion that can veer from the worshipful to the venomously resentful.
Those conflicting impulses have deep roots. When the British statesman Earl Macartney arrived in China in the late 18th century seeking trading concessions, he was politely rebuffed by the Qianlong emperor, who thought China was sufficiently wealthy and cultured. In the century that followed, as coastal China was carved up by foreign powers, educated Chinese began wondering whether their civilization might be inherently inferior to that of the West. In the first half of the 20th century, the tensions between those advocating Chinese self-reliance and those seeking modernization through opening up to the West were a frequent source of strife.
Mao Zedong and his Communist Revolution sought to put an end to any lingering self-doubt by banishing most foreign residents -- and Western notions of human rights and electoral democracy. The next three decades, which brought famine, political upheaval and economic stagnation, turned out to be disastrous for liberal thinkers.
Hong Huang, an entrepreneur who was one of the few Chinese to study in the United States during the peak of xenophobia in the 1970s, says many Chinese were confused by the sudden change in official attitude that followed the end of the Cultural Revolution in 1976. Once branded as enemies of the people, foreigners were placed on a pedestal in the 1980s, when Beijing was eager to court Western expertise and capital. In those days, she recalled, foreigners used special currency to shop at well-stocked Friendship Stores and stayed in hotels that were off limits to Chinese.
''The government made people feel like second-class citizens in their own country and inadvertently created these feelings of massive insecurity,'' said Ms. Hong, whose mother taught English to Mao and whose stepfather was foreign minister. ''When you have this kind of insecurity, it doesn't take much for people to turn uncontrollably emotional.''
More recently, many Chinese have come to feel maligned by the West despite the marked contrast between the robust growth in China, even if at a slower pace, and the economic frailties of Europe and the United States.
But apart from the enviable achievements, there is a simmering sense among educated Chinese that something is missing. The self-doubts are fed by corruption, censorship and the widening gap between the haves and have-nots. Even with their weakened economies, Western countries -- with their rule of law and sense of security -- still have an enduring appeal when contrasted to the vagaries of authoritarian rule.
Dai Qing, a dissident writer who often criticizes the Communist Party, said those long-buried frustrations were awakened when ordinary Chinese saw official favoritism toward foreigners, but felt their own government was unresponsive. ''If a Japanese tourist has his bicycle stolen, an entire city department will work around the clock to retrieve it,'' she said. ''They would never do that for a Chinese person.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oleg Vedernikov and Melissa Chan each ran afoul of Chinese officials. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (64%); NEWS REPORTING (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); POLICE FORCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); WALES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



994 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Charging Medical Bills

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Medical bills are a leading contributor to credit card debt, a new survey finds.
Nearly half of low- and moderate-income households carry debt from out-of-pocket medical expenses on their credit cards, the survey found. The average amount of medical debt on credit cards was $1,678. 
Demos, a nonpartisan research organization, contracted with Knowledge Networks to conduct the survey in February and March to gauge the impact of the recession as well as of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009. The survey, conducted online among participants selected by random sampling, included 997 adults who had carried credit card balances for at least three months. The margin of sampling error was four percentage points.
The survey found that average credit card debt had declined to $7,145, down from $9,887 in 2008. But the same proportion of households - 40 percent - used credit cards to pay for basic expenses, like mortgage or rent payments, groceries, utilities and insurance, because they did not have enough money to cover those costs.
Americans do seem to be benefiting from provisions of the CARD Act, like those requiring better disclosure of late fees and the impact of interest rates, the survey found. A third of households, for instance, were paying down their balances faster, and just 28 percent of households reported paying late fees, down from 50 percent in 2008.
The survey indicated that the CARD Act was working, but it also revealed the limits of such legislation in addressing consumer debt, said Amy Traub, a senior policy analyst at Demos. ''The reliance on credit cards shows that we need some deeper kind of policy to address the wage issues keeping people from making ends meet, and the medical issue, in particular,'' she said.
More than three-fourths of indebted households had out-of-pocket medical costs in the last three years, and 62 percent of them said the spending contributed to their current credit card debt.
Households that put medical bills on a credit card accumulated a median of $800 in credit card debt, meaning half the households had more and half had less. And half of those with medical debt said they had postponed filling a prescription or skipped a doctor visit or a test to reduce their medical expenses.
Have you paid your credit card balances down faster as a result of the CARD Act notices? Do you use your credit card for medical costs?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



995 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: The Challenge Of Starting An Airline

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Where are the start-up airlines?
With the big carriers cutting routes and raising fares, this would seem an ideal time for a new airline to take them on with cut-rate prices and service to smaller airports eager for more flights. That is the path, after all, taken by two of the industry's success stories -- Southwest Airlines, back in 1971, and JetBlue Airways, in 2000.
But getting an airline off the ground has become a lot more treacherous. High oil prices these days mean carriers must fly full planes to turn a profit, and smaller airports just do not provide enough passenger traffic. At the same time, the major domestic carriers are more entrenched than ever in their own hub airports, making it harder for a new entrant to wrangle gates there. And investors have become more cautious about lending to just any airline project.
''Why would you ever want to start a new airline?'' asked Michael Boyd, an aviation consultant with the Boyd Group International. ''The business is very capital-intensive, the returns are rotten and the track record is terrible. Plus, there's simply no market for a new carrier today.'' 
Scores have tried and failed -- Skybus Airlines, Independence Air, ATA Airlines and Maxjet Airways among the most recent examples. Even the most successful of the new carriers, Virgin America, has so far failed to turn a profit five years after its first flight.
Warren E. Buffett -- who once called an investment in US Airways in the early 1990s one of his biggest mistakes -- summed up the industry's predicament in a letter to shareholders in 2008: ''Here a durable competitive advantage has proven elusive ever since the days of the Wright Brothers. Indeed, if a farsighted capitalist had been present at Kitty Hawk, he would have done his successors a huge favor by shooting Orville down.''
Losses by the nation's passenger airlines from 1979, the year the industry was deregulated, to 2000 were twice as large as their combined profits in that period, according to the trade group Airlines for America. In the last decade, domestic airlines lost a combined $60 billion as higher fuel prices forced painful restructuring, bankruptcies and mergers.
With the economy picking up last year, the top domestic airlines reported profits of $1.5 billion with revenue of $192 billion -- a measly margin of 0.8 percent. Still, their combined market value is smaller than that of Starbucks.
Fuel has become one of the biggest barriers to entry into the business, accounting for 35 to 50 percent of costs as prices almost tripled in 10 years.
Mergers have also created a handful of major carriers that control powerful hub airports in large cities, making it generally tougher for a new airline to break in. The most successful smaller airlines -- Spirit Airlines, Allegiant Air, Alaska and Hawaiian Airlines -- all carved out specific markets in past decades that allowed them to thrive without competing head-to-head with their larger rivals, analysts said.
''The big guys have gotten bigger and it's a lot harder to fly under the radar now,'' said Jim Hnat, a senior executive at JetBlue. Even so, there are still optimistic entrepreneurs and investors. There are currently 13 companies seeking a Part 121 air carrier certificate from the Federal Aviation Administration, the certificate required to operate a scheduled passenger airline, according to the agency.
''If you have a niche, the rewards are great,'' said Ted Vallas, the founder of California Pacific Airlines, one of the prospective carriers, which has been seeking F.A.A. certification since 2009 and plans on serving the small markets shunned by the big carriers in recent years.
California Pacific has produced 32 manuals totaling 40,000 pages detailing all aspects of its operations to gain approval from the F.A.A. And it is not done yet. The carrier said that it expected its first plane -- an Embraer 170 jet with about 80 seats -- to be delivered next month and that it hoped to begin scheduled service by the fall. It plans to serve a handful of cities, including Oakland and Sacramento, from Carlsbad's McClellan-Palomar Airport, 35 miles north of San Diego.
Another hopeful, People Express, wants to revive a defunct brand known for its low-fare service to provide direct service between Newport News, Va., and places like Providence, R.I., and Pittsburgh on the East Coast, and Orlando in Florida.
''The consolidation of the major airlines has virtually eliminated point-to-point service,'' said Michael Morisi, its president. Mr. Morisi, who declined to comment on how much capital his airline had raised, said a new carrier needed about $100 million to start up. ''What makes this very difficult are the huge barriers to entry and the ability to convince investors that this is the right time to make this a success,'' he said.
The company applied to the F.A.A. to become a passenger airline in March. It hopes to be certified by October, which would be a record time. It was already fined $10,000 by the Department of Transportation this month, though, for advertising low fares on its Web site, which it is not permitted to do before it has a certificate to operate.
Having deep-pocketed investors ready to bankroll an airline is not enough. When Skybus Airlines started flying in May 2007 out of Columbus, Ohio, it had raised more than $160 million and offered fares as low as $10. But its timing was terrible. Within less than a year, fuel prices spiked and passenger demand dropped sharply as the economy slowed. It ceased operations in April 2008.
''I'd say that the only harder thing to start up than an airline is a nuclear plant,'' said Bill Diffenderffer, the former chief executive of Skybus. ''The reason you are able to raise capital is that financial markets love the idea of investing in an airline. When it works out -- Southwest or Ryanair is an example -- you can make enormous amounts of money.''
One prominent exception has been Virgin America, which began operations in August 2007 with flights between San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York. The carrier now has 51 planes and flies to 17 cities. It carried nearly 1.4 million passengers last year.
Its growth has come at a price, however. Virgin's cumulative net losses have reached $595 million since it started, including $100 million last year even as its revenue jumped 43 percent to over $1 billion. And the airline continues to face obstacles to its growth.
Virgin, for instance, has found it difficult to expand in big airports controlled by its rivals. The carrier tried for three years to get into Chicago O'Hare International Airport, where United and American Airlines own most of the gates and would not part with them. Eventually, the airport bought a concourse once operated by Delta and opened it to new entrants, allowing Virgin to establish six flights a day between Chicago and San Francisco.
''They weren't interested in another competitor,'' said David Cush, Virgin America's president.
But Virgin is still finding it hard to get landing slots at Newark Liberty International Airport, controlled by United. As part of its merger with Continental, United sold some landing and takeoff slots in a private sale to Southwest Airlines that left Virgin out of the loop. As a result, United is still the only airline to offer a direct route between Newark and San Francisco.
''We are supportive of consolidation but only if access to airports is guaranteed,'' Mr. Cush said. ''Unfortunately, the government has allowed consolidation but has done little to guarantee access. That makes it impossible for airlines like ours to go in and compete.''
Jeffrey Breen, the president and co-founder of the Atmosphere Research Group, a market research company, said, ''There is a certain romance associated with airlines. But there are more failures today than there were in the past decade, and that might simply be the industry and the financial markets learning a lesson. I think everyone realizes it's a hard business.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Independence Air closing its counter at the Charleston, S.C., airport in 2006. Above, Skybus's first flight in 2007. It stopped flying in 2008. Bill Diffenderffer, chief executive, is at left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALAN HAWES/THE POST AND COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 WILL VRAGOVIC/COLUMBUS DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B3) GRAPHIC (GRAPHIC BY JAMES BEST Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIRPORTS (91%); AIR SERVICE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MERGERS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (63%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); MAXJET AIRWAYS INC (54%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (90%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (63%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (59%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



996 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: With a Bipartisan Flurry, Becoming a Do-Something Senate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For the Congressional chamber where bills usually go to die, the Senate is on something of a roll, passing bipartisan legislation, confirming nominees -- and potentially isolating House Republican leaders who have made Senate inaction a centerpiece of their political appeals.
By big bipartisan majorities, the Senate since March has passed legislation to overhaul the postal system, pay for a multiyear transportation program, renew the Violence Against Women Act, streamline drug approval rules at the Food and Drug Administration, extend the life of the Export-Import Bank and ease financing for business start-ups. It has confirmed 19 judges and has put the Federal Reserve Board at full strength for the first time since 2006. 
When the House has taken the lead with bipartisan deals like the ones on the Export-Import Bank and the business start-ups, the Senate has promptly taken up the House bills and sent them to the president. The same cannot be said for the House on high-profile measures like the Violence Against Women Act and the transportation financing, which the House rebuffed in favor of more partisan versions.
On the others, the Senate has led, pressuring the House to find bipartisan common ground.
''The rap has been that we're at partisan loggerheads, but we've had one of the most productive last six weeks in a very long time,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said just after the body passed the broad F.D.A. bill, 96 to 1. ''We're coming together, and it's not just naming a post office. This is serious stuff.''
Even Republicans are speaking with a sense of pride.
''It's actually pretty reassuring,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas. ''When the Senate's allowed to work without the minority getting jammed, when people can offer amendments, have debates, then vote, then there's the opportunity for bipartisan collegiality and, you know, progress.''
But Mr. Cornyn, a top political strategist for his party, also said that ''we're very conscious of the fact that we don't want to undercut our House members.'' But the House Republican attack line against a do-nothing Senate may be fading, along with excuses for not getting more bills to the president's desk.
Still, on what Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, calls the ''mega-issues,'' the Senate is nowhere. On those, President Obama and House leaders have made common cause in emphasizing the negative. In Iowa on Thursday, the president hammered Congress for failing to extend a tax break for wind power, and he has pointed to other issues that are still stuck, like legislation to subsidize student loan interest rates.
Senate Democrats have not tried to pass a budget blueprint in three years. By contrast, House Republicans have passed two long-range plans that would drastically shrink the domestic side of the government and fundamentally transform entitlement programs like Medicare and Medicaid. This month, the House took the first step to replace across-the-board cuts to defense scheduled to begin next year with more cuts to domestic programs and to aid for the poor.
But House leaders have relied on partisan muscle, not bipartisan outreach, to lay those markers. The House budget blueprint and the legislation to shift defense cuts to other programs passed without a Democratic vote. The House's version of the Violence Against Women Act passed on May 16 with six Democratic votes, or 3 percent of those present. The Senate's version passed three weeks earlier with votes by 15 Republicans, a third of those present.
The Senate passed a two-year transportation program in March with 22 Republicans in support -- or more than half of those in the chamber. The House has yet to pass a multiyear plan. House leaders did pass a temporary transportation measure that included a statutory approval of the Keystone XL pipeline, which Mr. Obama has blocked. That bill attracted 69 Democrats, or 38 percent of those present.
''I'm not going to argue there's a change,'' said Michael Steel, a spokesman for the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, ''but they're catching up to what the House has been doing all along.''
The Senate has yet to take up 17 bills passed by the House that are framed by Republicans as job-creation measures, including bills to stop new Internet, coal and cement regulations and to remove land-use restrictions on 32 acres in Accomack County, Va.
But on average, those bills passed with 21 Democratic votes, 11 percent of the party's total.
Six major bills passed by the Senate since March averaged 28 Republican votes, 61 percent of those available. (Senator Mark Kirk, a moderate Republican from Illinois, has been out recovering from a stroke.)
Senator Richard G. Lugar, the Indiana Republican who recently lost a primary to a candidate condemning compromise, said the Senate was starting to operate as designed. Bills have been passed after committee deliberations, cross-party negotiations over amendments and procedures, and ''a lot of time just visiting with each other.''
Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, was still holding political votes on some high-profile legislation that were designed to fail -- like a bill on student loan interest rates paid for by closing a tax loophole, or a measure to impose a minimum tax rate on millionaires. But for now, at least, there are more serious legislative efforts.
With elections looming, that might not last, Mr. Stewart warned. After a weeklong break, the Senate will come back to vote on a quickly assembled measure to guarantee pay equity for women and men. It will fail.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 30, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a recent flurry of bipartisan legislation passed by the Senate described incorrectly a recent vote to establish and extend transportation programs. It extended the authorization bill for two years, not three, and it passed the Senate in March, not in April.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska on Thursday, when the Senate passed a bill on the Food and Drug Administration, 96 to 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STARTUPS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); STUDENT LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012



997 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Panel Urges Better Use Of Spectrum

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- A just-completed report from a presidential advisory committee urges President Obama to adopt new computer technologies to make better use of a huge swath of the radio spectrum now controlled by federal agencies.
The shift, which could be accomplished by presidential signature -- and without Congressional involvement -- would relieve spectrum congestion caused by the popularity of smartphones, and generate far more revenue for the federal government than auctioning spectrum to wireless carriers, according to the authors of the report.
Making better use of the spectrum for cellphones would allow for more services, more competition and possibly lower prices for consumers using cellphone data services. 
The new plan, which calls on the government to electronically rent or lease spectrum for periods of time as short as seconds using newly available computerized radio technologies, was presented publicly Friday to a meeting of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, or PCAST.
The authors of the report included Eric E. Schmidt, the chairman of Google, Craig Mundie, Microsoft's chief research and strategy officer and Silicon Valley venture capitalists Mark P. Gorenberg and David E. Liddle, among others. The report is scheduled to be presented to the president in June after final editing.
The idea of using computer-based technologies to increase spectrum capacity is catching on rapidly in the United States and overseas. Twice this month in speeches before cellular and cable companies Julius Genachowski, the Federal Communications Commission chairman, has called on industry to embrace spectrum-sharing technologies to make room for the wireless data explosion.
The report is a response to a 2010 memorandum by President Obama calling on federal agencies to find ways to clear 500 megahertz of spectrum to make way for the growth of new wireless services during the next decade. He believes freeing the spectrum will promote economic growth.
The authors cite a recent European study that found that freeing 400 megahertz of radio spectrum to be shared using new technologies would be equivalent to an economic financial stimulus of 800 billion euros.
According to Mr. Gorenberg, who presented the report on Friday before the committee, the amount of wireless data that has been transmitted by the growing legions of smartphones and wirelessly connected tablets has doubled every year for the last four years. He said that there would be as many as 50 billion devices transmitting and receiving wireless data by 2020, leading many in the wireless industry to forecast a spectrum crisis.
However, he said that the committee's authors believed that agile radio technologies that make it possible for computerized radio systems to share spectrum on a vastly more efficient basis would make it possible to move from an era of scarcity to one of abundance. The central point of the report is that while there is no new spectrum available, new technologies can vastly increase the capacity of existing spectrum.
The report concludes that the radio spectrum could be used as much as 40,000 times as efficiently as it is currently and the committee recommends an approach that could increase capacity 1,000 fold, Mr. Gorenberg said. ''We're living with spectrum that is of a policy that was really set in motion by technology of 100 years ago,'' he said. ''That's led to a fragmentation of the spectrum that has led to inefficiency and artificial scarcity.''
Except for several unlicensed frequencies established by the Federal Communications Commission that gave rise to data services like Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, today much of the radio spectrum is licensed to both commercial users and government agencies who have no incentive to use the spectrum they control efficiently, he said.
The new radio technology was pioneered during the late 1990s and is described as ''cognitive'' or ''agile'' radio. Such computer-controlled radios inside a cellphone can rapidly switch the frequencies they broadcast and receive on based on an arbitrary set of rules. One analogy to describe the technology might be a freeway system, in which individual vehicles could quickly switch lanes or drive more closely together.
The report, which is titled ''Realizing the Full Potential of Government-Held Spectrum to Spur Economic Growth,'' calls for a tiered system in which different users would have different priority, possibly based on whether they were a government user, a user who was prepared to pay more for a higher quality-of-service,'' or a casual user who might be assigned the lowest priority and pay the lowest rate. Unlike today's unlicensed Wi-Fi spectrum, which can be used freely, the newly available spectrum would require devices ''register'' in a database that would then control the terms of their access to the spectrum.
''One of the reasons we think we will see this dramatic economic expansion around radio-based systems in the future is that we can have a dramatic lowering of the apparent cost of gaining access and that will be facilitated by the registration system,'' Mr. Mundie said.
The report also calls on the president to create a ''synthetic'' currency that could be used to entice federal agencies into offering more spectrum to the system. ''The agencies don't have an incentive to move forward,'' he said. ''We think a carrot approach is a much better approach.'' The proposed system would in effect increase an agency's budget if it was willing to give up, or share its spectrum.
In response to questions after his presentation, Mr. Gorenberg said that foreign competitors were already aware of the potential economic value of the new radio technologies and that the United States was in a contest to develop systems quickly.
''I think this is a worldwide race,'' he said. ''There are people looking at this everywhere. This is something that is very important to the U.S. to lead here to have our vendors out front so they can export their products overseas.''
He warned that if the United States failed competitively, the nation would likely see a repeat of the situation in the early 1990s when advanced digital cellular standards were created first in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (77%); WIRELESS REGULATION (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (52%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



998 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Gap Is Disclosed In U.S. Overseers In JPMorgan Loss

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Scores of federal regulators are stationed inside JPMorgan Chase's Manhattan headquarters, but none of them were assigned to the powerful unit that recently disclosed a multibillion trading loss.
Roughly 40 examiners from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and 70 staff members from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency are embedded in the nation's largest bank. They are typically assigned to the departments undertaking the greatest risks, like the structured products trading desk. Even as the chief investment office swelled in size and made increasingly large bets, regulators did not put any examiners in the unit's offices in London or New York, according to current and former regulators who spoke only on condition of anonymity.
Senior JPMorgan executives assured the bank's watchdogs after the financial crisis that the chief investment office, with hundreds of billions in investments, was not taking risks that would be a cause for concern, people briefed on the matter said. Just weeks before the trading losses became public, bank officials also dismissed the worry of a senior New York Fed examiner about the mounting size of the bets, according to current Fed officials. 
The lapses have raised questions about who, if anyone, was policing the chief investment office and whether regulators were sufficiently independent. Instead of putting the JPMorgan unit under regular watch, the comptroller's office and the Fed chose to examine it periodically.
The bank pushback also suggests that JPMorgan had sway over its regulators, an influence that several said was enhanced by the bank's charismatic chief executive, Jamie Dimon, long considered Washington's favorite banker.
Now, as regulators scramble to determine whether the chief investment office took inappropriate risks, some former Fed officials are asking whether the investigation should be spearheaded by the New York Fed, where Mr. Dimon has a seat on the board. Some lawmakers and former regulators also have reservations about the comptroller's office, which is investigating the trade and was the primary regulator for JPMorgan's chief investment unit.
''The central question is why Jamie Dimon was able to so successfully convince both its regulators that there was nothing to see at the chief investment office,'' said Mark Williams, a professor of finance at Boston University, who also served as a Federal Reserve Bank examiner in Boston and San Francisco. ''To me, it suggests that he is too close to his regulators.''
Regulators, for their part, say they cannot micromanage a bank or outlaw its risk taking and did not bow to bank pressure when assigning examiners. William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, has said that JPMorgan's losses did not pose a threat to the bank's viability. In a statement on Friday, the comptroller of the currency, Thomas J. Curry, said, ''I am committed to ensuring this agency provides strong supervision for all of the institutions we oversee.''
Regulators are not typically stationed at divisions like JPMorgan's chief investment office, which are known as Treasury units. The units hedge risk and invest extra money on hand, and tend to make short-term investments. But JPMorgan's office, with a portfolio of nearly $400 billion, had become a profit center that made large bets and recorded $5 billion in profit over the three years through 2011.
Officials of JPMorgan declined to comment on its relationships with regulators.
Long before the recent trading blunder, JPMorgan had a pattern of pushing back on regulators, according to more than a dozen current and former regulators interviewed for this article. That resistance increased after Mr. Dimon steered JPMorgan through the financial crisis in better shape than virtually all its rivals.
''JPMorgan has been screaming bloody murder about not needing regulators hovering, especially in their London office,'' said a former examiner embedded at the bank, adding, in reference to Mr. Dimon, ''But he was trusted because he had done so well through the turmoil.''
Even now, executives at JPMorgan disagree with some regulators over how quickly the bank should unwind the soured trade, according to people briefed on the negotiations. JPMorgan would like to be done with the bad bet that has resulted in at least $3 billion in losses already, but senior executives argue it is a delicate process, especially as traders and hedge funds on the opposite side of the trade seize on the fact that JPMorgan is under pressure to exit the position.
Senior staff members at the Federal Reserve want the bank out of the position ''yesterday,'' according to a regulator privy to the discussions who insisted on anonymity because the talks are private.
Some politicians -- including Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont, and Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat running for Senate in Massachusetts -- argue that Mr. Dimon's position at the New York Fed further compromises regulatory oversight. ''Mr. Dimon should not be in a position to have such influence on a major regulator,'' Ms. Warren said. When asked on PBS's ''NewsHour'' last week about JPMorgan, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said that regulators needed to ''be above any political influence.'' He did not say Mr. Dimon should resign from the Fed, but he acknowledged that the perception of a conflict was ''a problem.''
At the bank's annual shareholder meeting last week in Tampa, Fla., Mr. Dimon pointed out that he served as an economic adviser at the New York Fed. Bankers who sit on the New York Fed do not have a say about the supervision of banks or the writing of rules, but provide guidance on the state of the economy, according to Fed officials. Mr. Dimon, however, has been a vocal critic of some bank regulatory reforms being drafted in Washington.
Current and former regulators said that lower-level officials at JPMorgan had at times tried to undermine their supervision of the bank. JPMorgan has a reputation for challenging regulators more forcefully than rival banks like Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, former New York Fed officials said. Long before the recent trade, an embedded examiner said he had asked for JPMorgan's three- to five-year capital plan, and after waiting a couple of days was told that the bank's management had gone over his head and ''already sent it to my bosses.'' By cutting out lower-level regulators, the bank officials telegraphed a message that those concerns were irrelevant, the former examiner said.
JPMorgan also kept its regulators somewhat in the dark about the troublesome trades. Senior executives, for example, did not tell the Fed that they had changed their value-at-risk measure in the first quarter to evaluate potential losses at the chief investment office. Though reporting such a change was not required, the size of the office alone merited more oversight, said Mr. Williams, the former Fed examiner.
''From a regulatory standpoint, it needs to be scrutinized because it was a hedge fund,'' Mr. Williams said.
Bank officials played down the trade after it began to sour, according to a senior supervisor at the Federal Reserve. The supervisor said he was assured in the first week of April that the bank's senior management was not concerned about Bruno Iksil, the trader who earned the nickname the London Whale for his outsize bets in the credit markets.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is also facing scrutiny about whether it is too cozy with the banks it oversees.
At JPMorgan, when media reports surfaced that the bank was making aggressive bets on credit derivatives, comptroller officials began taking a closer look, people briefed on the matter said. After thumbing through the bank's own projections for the related risks in early April, the people said, the examiners pushed for more answers but saw no immediate need to change course. The agency notes that it does not bless specific trades.
In a briefing on Capitol Hill last week, two comptroller officials told a room of Congressional staff members that it was ''common'' and ''appropriate'' for banks in general to hedge their exposure to various risks, according to people who attended.
''I know in college they teach you everything is black and white,'' one official said in response to hypothetical questions about creating the perfect hedge. ''But it's not that way in the real world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (95%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (95%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (95%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



999 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Citing Gains, U.S. Doesn't Call China Currency Manipulator

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Treasury Department said on Friday that China had made progress in allowing its currency to rise against the dollar and declined to accuse the nation of manipulating its currency to gain a trade advantage. 
The department's decision should help avert a trade dispute. But the department said China's currency was still undervalued and must rise further against the dollar.
The renminbi has gained 8 percent against the dollar in the last two years. A currency with a lower value gives China a trade advantage by making its exports cheaper and imports from the United States more expensive.
If the department found that China was manipulating its currency, the Obama administration would have had to initiate negotiations with China. If those talks failed, the United States could have imposed trade sanctions.
Some American manufacturers have urged the administration to take punitive steps to force China to allow the renminbi to trade freely. The renminbi now trades within a narrow range against the dollar.
Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has said that he would label China a currency manipulator on his first day in office.
The Treasury Department said China had made commitments in recent negotiations, including some at high-level meetings this month, to make its exchange rate more flexible.
In April, China widened the daily amount the renminbi was allowed to fluctuate to 1 percent, from 0.5 percent. That move came just before Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met President Hu Jintao of China for high-level talks in early May in Beijing.
Mr. Geithner told Mr. Hu during those meetings that China's loosening of the range was ''very promising.''
The United States has urged China to let its currency appreciate for almost a decade. In 2005, China ended its tight peg of the renminbi to the dollar and permitted the renminbi to trade within a narrow range. Since then, the renminbi has appreciated 40 percent in inflation-adjusted terms, the department said.
The United States trade deficit with China widened in March, the Commerce Department said this month. The deficit with China this year is on pace to exceed last year's gap of $295.5 billion, a high for any country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HU JINTAO (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); MITT ROMNEY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012



1000 of 1178 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Billionaire Finds New Role in Anti-Obama Campaign

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
When news broke last week that the billionaire investor Joe Ricketts had considered financing a $10 million advertising effort linking President Obama with the fiery race-based rhetoric of his former spiritual adviser, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., Mr. Ricketts quickly distanced himself from the proposal and Mitt Romney's campaign denounced it.
But Mr. Ricketts is continuing to play a provocative role in the effort to defeat Mr. Obama.
He is involved in another effort slated for this summer, a documentary film based on a widely criticized book, ''The Roots of Obama's Rage'' by Dinesh D'Souza, which asserts that Mr. Obama is carrying out the ''anticolonial'' agenda of his Kenyan father. 
Mr. Ricketts's aides said he was one of roughly two dozen investors, providing only 5 percent of the film's budget. But his involvement shows how the more strident attacks against Mr. Obama, which Mr. Romney's aides view as counterproductive, continue to find backing even as the Republican Party and the Romney campaign seek to keep the focus on the economy.
The episode involving the proposed Wright advertisement put new attention on the ability of wealthy donors, working with groups independent of the candidates, to shape the presidential race, and stoked further debate about whether outside groups were driving politics to become increasingly negative.
It also made Mr. Ricketts, who founded TD Ameritrade and is the patriarch of the family that owns the Chicago Cubs, the subject of intensive scrutiny and left his family's business empire exposed to political backlash. He has refused several interview requests since The New York Times obtained a copy of the proposed Wright campaign. He is not affiliated with the Romney campaign, although he shares a legal adviser with Mr. Romney in Ben Ginsberg, the prominent Republican lawyer in Washington.
But interviews with friends and associates over the past week, along with a review of Mr. Ricketts's own publicly expressed views, show why he is willing to put millions of dollars behind an effort to defeat the president.
An early glimpse of his views on Mr. Obama can be found in a June 2010 graduation speech he gave at Bellevue University in Nebraska, for which he is a leading benefactor. Lamenting the banking and auto bailouts, he declared, ''Our Republic is under assault from our government,'' adding the historical note that ''most of the past threats have come from outside our borders.''
He called this ''a most dangerous time,'' when ''people begin to second-guess the American experiment'' and ''flirt with dead-ends like socialism.'' It was in that climate, he said, that he had decided to become more personally involved in politics.
Mr. Ricketts's aides said he was primarily motivated by his concern for the budget deficit and government spending. And he has developed a reputation for supporting Democrats as well as Republicans when he believes they will act on his calls to rein in the deficit.
His political action group Ending Spending is financing a book by the husband and wife economists Ayse and Selahattin Imrohoroglu that in effect argues for an embrace of the bipartisan Bowles-Simpson debt reduction plan. (Called ''The Fiscal Cliff: How America Can Avoid a Fall and Stay On Top'' and due out late next month, it has a clinical, academic approach.)
In explaining the rejection of the Wright proposal questioning Mr. Obama's character, which was drafted after Mr. Ricketts held two meetings with the strategists behind it, a top aide said that it reflected ''an approach to politics that Mr. Ricketts rejects'' and that his role this year would ''be focused entirely on questions of fiscal policy, not attacks that seek to divide us socially or culturally.''
Yet the film Mr. Ricketts is helping to finance, called ''2016: Obama's America,'' is built on the premise that ''Obama has a dream, a dream from his father, that the sins of colonialism be set right and America be downsized,'' according to a trailer.
Mr. Ricketts's aides also said that he had helped pay for newspaper and Internet advertisements promoting Mr. D'Souza's book in late 2010, one of which called it ''the book the White House doesn't want you to read,'' and warned, ''The real Barack Obama is even worse than you think.''
Some of Mr. D'Souza's theories have been widely criticized by prominent conservative and Republican Party leaders. The columnist George F. Will urged Republicans to ''recoil'' from such views, and wrote last year: ''To the notion that Obama has a Kenyan, anticolonial worldview, the sensible response is: If only.''
A review of ''The Roots of Obama's Rage'' in The Weekly Standard criticized it for ''misstatements of fact, leaps in logic, and pointlessly elaborate argumentation.''
A spokesman for Mr. Ricketts said that he had supported the book and the movie only because of his friendship with Mr. D'Souza, whom he has known for several years. The two men became acquainted through the American Enterprise Institute, a spokesman said, when Mr. D'Souza, now president of the King's College in New York, was a scholar there and Mr. Ricketts was on its board of trustees.
In response to questions about Mr. D'Souza, Mr. Ricketts said in a statement that he had long been a ''proud supporter of his scholarship'' and shared his fiscal conservatism, and that he was deeply inspired by his personal story. ''As an immigrant from India who built a life for himself in the United States, becoming a respected scholar, a best-selling author, and the president of the King's College in New York, he embodies to me what American opportunity is all about,'' he said.
He also said Mr. D'Souza and he had spent hours together ''exploring ideas for my Opportunity Education foundation,'' which provides textbooks, televisions, curriculums and advice to schools in developing nations including Ghana, India and what its Web site calls ''Palestine.''
Mr. D'Souza did not return calls seeking comment about the film, which he describes on his Web site as ''one of my biggest projects ever.'' It is produced by Gerald R. Molen, the producer of the Academy Award-winning ''Schindler's List.''
The Web site promoting the film says it is ''opening in theaters this June'' and warns, ''Love him, hate him, you don't know him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Ricketts is among the backers of a documentary film based on a widely criticized book, ''The Roots of Obama's Rage.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); MEN (76%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); BASEBALL (71%); BAILOUTS (71%); FAMILY (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (64%)

COMPANY: TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (54%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012

 
