

801 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: In Davos, Signs of Shift in Global Power

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD and ALISON SMALE

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
For years, the power brokers who gathered in the Swiss Alps to mull over the state of the world worried collectively about an outdated system of global governance. 
 From the United Nations Security Council and the International Monetary Fund to the Group of 8, the arguments went, international institutions were unfit to solve global problems because they no longer represented the balance of power in the world. 
 Then the recent recession finally forced a change. The Group of 8, representing the largest Western countries and Russia, has shifted power to the larger Group of 20, which includes the major developing countries as well. The makeup of participants in Davos has shifted along with it.
 This year, even if most panels are still dominated by executives from established Western countries and institutions, China is sending its largest delegation ever to Davos for the World Economic Forum. India and Brazil are well represented as well.
 While the embrace of the G-20 as a global board goes some way toward addressing the issue of legitimacy, it has laid bare a trickier problem: forging a consensus among a larger number of significant players on the international scene with different priorities and interests.
 Consensus, some here said on Wednesday, might be too ambitious a goal. Instead of multilateralism, Graham Allison, a professor at Harvard University, suggested what he called ''many-lateralism'': when a sizable group of countries agree, they should move forward, letting the laggards adjust later.
 Such a strategy has worked even when the laggards were superpowers. An international agreement to ban land mines was boycotted by the United States and some other countries. But in the 13 years since it was signed, the United States military has not used land mines, nor has it manufactured or exported any. In effect, said Kenneth Roth, executive director of Human Rights Watch, it ended up complying with the ban.
 Some even say that United States opposition to the International Criminal Court, also set up without Washington's participation, has been softening, with signs that the Obama administration is cooperating with the court on issues like Darfur.
 ''Consensus rules are a recipe for paralysis,'' said Mr. Roth, who is in Davos this week. ''The lesson is that you build the institutional norms with a flexible process and with a critical mass rather than allowing the laggards to set the agenda.''
 Others, like John Chipman of the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, proposed that the Group of 20 be given more powers of enforcement in the international security as well as financial regulation, since the Security Council has difficulty forging agreements.
 ''The G-20 has the legitimacy,'' Mr. Chipman said.
 Few leaders would agree more than President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who in September 2008 was the first to propose a summit meeting to deal with the financial crisis. Out of that grew the enhanced role for the Group of 20.
 ''The G-20 is a harbinger of global governance in the 21st century,'' Mr. Sarkozy said in his keynote address here on Wednesday. 
 ''Without the G-20, confidence would not have been re-established,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''Without the G-20, the spirit of 'each man for himself' would have prevailed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On land mines, said Kenneth Roth, a bloc of nations swayed a powerful holdout, the U.S.(PHOTOGRAPH BY IBRAHIM USTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RECESSION (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LANDMINES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); BOYCOTTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) ALPS (88%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



802 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Radiation Levels Cloud Vermont Reactor's Fate

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Levels of radioactive tritium have risen rapidly in recent weeks in the groundwater surrounding Vermont's sole nuclear power plant, leading both longtime supporters and foes of the reactor to question whether it will be allowed to keep operating.
 Owners of the Vermont Yankee plant, along the Connecticut River just north of the Massachusetts border near Brattleboro, are seeking a 20-year extension of the plant's operating license, which expires in 2012. 
 But the rising radiation levels, an indication that reactor water is leaking into the soil, have stirred deep concern about the plant's safety and the credibility of its operators.
 So far no tritium has been found in any drinking water wells, nor have raised concentrations of radioactive material been found in the river, the source of the plant's cooling water. 
 Vermont's governor, Jim Douglas, a longtime supporter of the plant, said on Wednesday in a statement that recent events had ''raised dark clouds of doubt'' about the reactor's safety and management. He suggested that the Legislature put off any decisions on the future of the plant, located in the town of Vernon. 
 If the nuclear plant were to be denied an extension, it would be the first such move by the public or its representatives since 1989, when residents in Sacramento voted to close the Rancho Seco nuclear plant, owned by their municipal utility. No state legislature has ever voted to close one.
 Vermont's state health department has been posting updates almost daily on the monitoring at the plant. 
 ''I'm not defining an immediate public health threat, but it's very concerning when we don't understand the mechanism,'' the state's health commissioner, Dr. Wendy Davis, said in an interview by telephone.
 The plant began searching for tritium, a radioactive form of hydrogen, under a 2007 nuclear industry initiative. The industry began the effort because leaks had been found at reactors in Illinois and New York.
 Levels found in the last few days exceed the federal standard for drinking water, although they were found in monitoring wells, not drinking water wells. The state has moved to weekly from monthly testing at the elementary school across the street from the plant, but has not detected anything unusual off the plant site. 
 The top elected official in the town of Vernon, Michael A. Ball, who has worked at Vermont Yankee since 1985 and is a senior engineer there, went to the state capitol last week with other local officials to urge the Legislature to refrain from taking up the safety issue. They argued that a professional panel should decide whether the reactor was safe. 
 Mr. Ball said that some legislators had told him that the discovery of the radioactive contamination ''gave them pause'' and that they wanted more information before voting.
 ''Others were adamant,'' he said, telling him flatly that the recent discovery had ''pushed them off the fence and they're voting against it.'' 
 Other factors cloud the plant's future. A vice president of Entergy, the company that owns the plant, had told state officials he did not believe the plant had underground piping that carried radioactive material, although it does.
 And Entergy is seeking permission to spin off Vermont Yankee and five of its other reactors into a new subsidiary, a move that the plant's opponents view as an attempt to limit Entergy's legal liability. 
 A cooling tower at Vermont Yankee collapsed in 2007. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission said the tower was not needed to assure safety, but the incident shook public confidence. 
 ''Their problem is that the plant is too old to be reliable or safe,'' said James W. Moore, an energy expert at the Montpelier office of the Vermont Public Interest Research Group.
 Tritium is usually incorporated into a water molecule, and such molecules behave chemically just as ordinary water does. But it gives off a beta particle that can cause damage inside the body. Like ordinary water molecules, those incorporating tritium pass through the body quickly. 
 In November, technicians measured tritium at Vermont Yankee at 700 picocuries per liter. But in January the plant notified the state that the level had risen to thousands of picocuries per liter. In one monitoring well, it recently exceeded the Environmental Protection Agency's standard for drinking water, which is 20,000 picocuries per liter. 
 Plant workers also found that water in a concrete trench that holds pipes in one building contained millions of picocuries of tritium per liter, as well as traces of other radioactive materials. 
 It was not immediately clear if water could find its way from that trench into the groundwater. 
 Under federal rules, the plant does not have to alert the Nuclear Regulatory Commission about the presence of tritium in the groundwater unless the level reaches 30,000 picocuries per liter. At that point it would have 30 days to tell the commission, and specify what it planned to do. 
 Robert Williams, a spokesman for Vermont Yankee, said the company was working hard to find a leak. ''It's a necessarily slow and methodical process,'' he said. The plant is already in touch with federal and state regulators, he added. 
 Dozens of reactors around the country have had their 40-year licenses extended by 20 years without much debate. Under the Atomic Energy Act, such decisions are usually the sole purview of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
 But Vermont struck a deal with Entergy when it bought the plant in 2002 that gave legislators a veto role. An official with the federal nuclear commission noted that if the state blocked a license renewal, Entergy could file a court challenge.
 Vermont Yankee is the largest generator of power in Vermont. But New England's power grid has a surplus of electricity because of the recession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marchers gathered in Montpelier this month to push for the closing of the Vermont Yankee nuclear plant near Brattleboro.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEB WALLACE-BRODEUR/THE TIMES ARGUS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%)

PERSON: JIM DOUGLAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (79%) VERMONT, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



803 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1024 words

PERSON: Andrew Lange 

HEADLINE: Andrew Lange, Scholar Of the Cosmos, Dies at 52

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
Andrew Lange, an astrophysicist whose balloon-borne measurements of light left over from the Big Bang played a key role in elucidating the shape and nature of the universe, was found dead on Jan. 22 in Los Angeles. He was 52. 
 His death was announced by Jean-Lou Chameau, the president of the California Institute of Technology, where Dr. Lange had until recently been chairman of the division of physics, mathematics and astronomy. President Chameau said Dr. Lange appeared to have taken his own life. 
 Dr. Lange devoted his career to a haze of faint microwaves that pervade the sky, providing a whispery ghost image of the universe when it was only 400,000 years old, before there were stars, galaxies or even atoms. 
 In the late 1990s, this work put him in the middle of one of the grandest quests in science, the effort to discern the fate of the universe -- whether it would keep expanding forever or collapse one day into the fire from which it had emerged 14 billion years ago. According to Einstein, that fate was determined by the large-scale geometry of space time, which in turn is determined by the amount of matter and energy in the universe.
 Theorists had long favored the Euclidean, or ''flat,'' geometry that students learn in school -- a triangle between three distant quasars would have internal angles that add up to 180 degrees -- but astronomers could not find enough matter in the universe to make it flat. Dr. Lange and his collaborators found that it was energy that was making it flat.
 Dr. Lange was co-leader, with Paolo de Bernardis of the University of Rome, of an experiment called Boomerang, short for Balloon Observations of Millimetric Extragalactic Radiation and Geophysics. During a 10-day flight at 120,000 feet over Antarctica in 1998, the gadget was able to detect and map faint ripples in the microwave glow, which could be used like the ticks on a ruler to gauge the cosmos and read off its geometry and other parameters.
 The universe, they reported in 1999, is indeed flat. These results not only suggested that it would expand forever; they also provided crucial support for a bold theory that the universe had undergone an explosive expansion, called inflation, when it was only a fraction of a fraction of a second old.
 Michael S. Turner, a cosmologist at the University of Chicago, said of Dr. Lange, ''He and his Boomerang team got one of the biggest prizes in cosmology: they were the first to show that the geometry of the universe is flat.'' 
 Two similar experiments reported similar results at the same time. Dr. Lange was part of one of them, the Maxima experiment, which was led by his former professor Paul Richards of the University of California, Berkeley. His former student Mark Devlin of the University of Pennsylvania was co-leader of the other, known as the Microwave Anisotropy Telescope. But astronomers believed that Boomerang produced the most convincing data. 
 Marc Kamionkowski, a Caltech cosmologist, said, ''Boomerang was just crystal clear; it was the shot heard around the world.''
 The results were subsequently confirmed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe, a satellite that has been mapping the entire microwave sky since 2001.
 These results also dovetailed with the strange discovery in 1998 that the expansion of the universe was speeding up, a discovery that many astronomers and physicists had viewed with suspicion. Most of the universe turned out to be not stars and galaxies or even the mysterious as-yet-unidentified dark matter surrounding them, but the so-called dark energy driving the acceleration of the universe. 
 ''So there are two very different lines of evidence indicating that the universe is accelerating,'' Dr. Lange said in an interview with the European Space Agency in 2001. ''I believe it now.''
 Andrew E. Lange was born in Urbana, Ill., on July 23, 1957, the oldest son of Joan Lange, a school librarian, and Albert Lange, an architect, and grew up in Easton, Conn. He attended Princeton University and then the University of California, Berkeley, where he received a Ph.D. in 1987 and was promptly hired as a professor. 
 While he was at Berkeley as a Packard fellow, Dr. Lange met another Packard fellow, Frances Arnold, a chemical engineer, who had attended Princeton and Berkeley when he did, but whom he had never met before then. The pair held a wedding ceremony for family and friends in 1994, but never made it official with the State of California, Dr. Arnold said. 
 That same year Dr. Lange joined Caltech. By then the discovery of the cosmic microwave background was transforming cosmology. 
 Dr. Lange, working with James Bock, now at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, built new detectors, known as spider web bolometers, designed for studying the cosmic microwave work. The detectors were used on both Maxima and Boomerang and a series of subsequent cosmic experiments, including Planck, a satellite launched last year by the European Space Agency.
 Dr. Lange was part of the Planck team but, always eager to be in the forefront, was already working on ideas for new experiments.
 ''What will we discover with them?'' Dr. Lange asked rhetorically in his 2001 interview. ''We don't know. The great thing here is that you cannot predict what's going to come next. Five years ago no one took the idea of the dark energy seriously!'' 
 His friends and colleagues described Dr. Lange as a warm man who always had a sparkle in his eye. ''He was one of those guys who had an aura of utter confidence and competency,'' Dr. Devlin said. But he also struggled with depression. 
 ''He cared immensely about other people and not enough about himself,'' said Dr. Arnold, who is now a professor of chemical engineering at Caltech. At the time of Dr. Lange's death, they were separated.
 Dr. Arnold survives him, along with three children: James Bailey, her son from a previous relationship, whom Dr. Lange raised as his own; William A. Lange; and Joseph I. Lange. He is also survived by his parents and a sister, Karen Lange, of Washington, and a brother, Adam Lange, of St. Louis.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Thursday about the astrophysicist Andrew Lange, whose measurements of light left over from the Big Bang helped explain the shape and nature of the universe, misstated the given name of Dr. Lange's father. It is Alfred, not Albert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Lange (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB PAZ/CALTECH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); PHYSICS (90%); ASTROPHYSICS (90%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%); ANTARCTICA (53%)

CATEGORY: Astronautics and Aeronautics, Colleges and Universities, Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



804 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Optimism on the Economy Helps Improve Wall Street's Mood

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks reversed an early slide and ended higher on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve issued a more upbeat assessment of the economy.
 Major stock indexes were down before the Fed released its statement, then advanced as investors digested the central bank's comments after a two-day meeting on interest rates. Treasury prices also reversed direction after the announcement, falling as investors withdrew money. 
 The Fed said it believed ''economic activity has continued to strengthen'' since its last meeting in December, but it did not repeat its assertion that the housing market was improving.
 Although it left interest rates near zero, as expected, the Fed noted that Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, had voted against the decision.
 James A. Cox, managing partner at the Harris Financial Group in Colonial Heights, Va., said Mr. Hoenig's vote signaled that the central bank was moving closer to raising rates.
 ''That means there are a couple of people who feel that the economy is getting better at a nice rate that no longer warrants these exceptionally low rates,'' he said.
 Stocks fell early in the day as the Commerce Department said sales of new homes fell 7.6 percent in December.
 At the close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 41.87 points, or 0.41 percent, at 10,236.16. It was down 40 points before the Fed's statement.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.33 points, or 0.49 percent, to 1,097.50, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 17.68 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,221.41.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 8/32, to 97 24/32, and the yield rose to 3.65 percent from 3.62 percent late Tuesday.
 The dollar rose against most major currencies, while gold fell.
 Reassurance from the Fed could not erase all investor worries about the economy. Caterpillar hurt the Dow industrials when it issued a cautious forecast. The stock fell $2.41, or 4.3 percent, to $53.44.
 Shares of Apple rose $1.94, or 0.94 percent, to $207.88 after the company announced a tablet-style computer, the iPad, that looks like a large iPhone screen.
 The Fed's announcement was the latest event in Washington to command investors' attention.
 In hearings on Capitol Hill, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, defended the government's rescue last year of the American International Group. 
 Traders are also waiting to see whether the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, whose term ends Sunday, will win Senate approval for a second four-year term. A vote is expected on Thursday.
 The hearings came after President Obama said last week that he would seek to limit trading by major financial institutions. That drew concerns from investors that bank profits would suffer.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's auction of five-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg)
 CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); TABLET COMPUTERS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (70%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); BMO FINANCIAL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



805 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3814 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers and Bombs, And What Stores Hope Will Lure You Back

BYLINE: By RIMA SUQI

 BODY:
IT should come as no surprise to anyone that 2009 wasn't a stellar year for retailers specializing in home furnishings -- or in just about anything else. According to the Census Bureau's most recent monthly retail trade report, sales at furniture and home furnishings stores were down 11.9 percent last year from 2008.
 Even so, the news isn't all bad.
 Despite the recession, some people are still buying, at least according to the owners of a number of design stores around the country who were asked to talk about what has sold well, what hasn't -- and what they're betting on -- in a time of economic turmoil. 
 The last time the Home section surveyed design stores about their sales and what they were hoping to score big with in the season ahead, the retail landscape looked very different. In the fall of 2007, there appeared to be little anxiety among store owners about the future, and most seemed willing to take chances on unconventional pieces, which often turned out to be unexpected best sellers.
 The hand-painted ceramic pig carried by Auto in the meatpacking district was one such surprise, and it continued to sell well, to the amazement of the store's owners, Renata Bokalo and Roman Luba, until they closed their doors earlier this month. (They wouldn't comment on their reasons for closing.)
 But of the 11 stores surveyed last time, Auto was the only one that went out of business. And several stores actually expanded: Apartment 48 in New York and Elements in Chicago moved to larger spaces, and Koo de Kir in Boston opened a second location devoted to interior design.
 This time around, the retailers who were surveyed -- an entirely different group -- seemed more cautious. Larry Schaffer, the owner of OK in Los Angeles, said his strategy in the past year had been investing in ''greatest hits, things I knew would sell because I've sold them for 10 years.''
 Ken Foster, the owner of Foster's Homeware, in Philadelphia, adopted a similar approach. ''I used to take risks and bring in a wacky thing that I knew wouldn't sell,'' Mr. Foster said. ''Now I spend my money on stuff I know will sell.''
 And like most of the store owners interviewed for this article, he and Mr. Schaffer have kept their inventory lean: Mr. Foster cut his stock by 20 percent last year, Mr. Schaffer by 25 percent.
 A few stores reported an uptick in sales -- of cocooning items, in particular. Pamela Hewett, the owner of Stitch, in Chicago, said she ''sold more sectionals in 2009 than any year prior'' in the past decade, a change she attributes to people ''hanging out more at home'' during the recession.
 Homenature in Southampton, N.Y., also saw an increase in furniture sales, despite a sharp decrease in decorator traffic, said John Heilmann, the owner. ''I think our customer that used a decorator in the city might not have been using one for their second home out here,'' Mr. Heilmann said. ''They were doing it themselves.''
 For a few stores, the recession seems to have provided an opportunity to test new waters. Because he reduced his inventory, Mr. Schaffer said, he had the cash to ''very strategically and carefully pick up new collections.''
 ''I'll probably have newer, fresher stuff this year than I've had in three years,'' he said.
 What follows is a small, unscientific survey of the home furnishings market across the country -- one that is in no way exhaustive, since retailers can be expected to reserve some information for competitive reasons. But it does offer a look at what's still selling, even in the midst of an economic downturn.
 For photos of the products mentioned throughout, view the interactive feature.
 Grange Hall, 4445 Travis Street, Dallas; (214) 443-0600 or http://urbanflowergrangehall.com 
 Jeffrey Marion Lee and Rajan Patel, the owners, met when they worked for fashion designer Victor Costa. They went on to become visual directors at Stanley Korshak, a department store, before buying a 3,000-square-foot space six years ago in the Knox-Henderson area of Dallas. In the beginning, their shop focused on floral design, but over the years their product mix has expanded to include home furnishings, books and jewelry; they also offer interior design services. The store manager, Morgan Thaxton, describes the inventory as a ''highly curated selection of bizarre gifts and unusual jewelry from around the world.''
 Best Seller: Mixed-Media Miniatures by David Simcik, $225 to $375 Each ''We tend to gravitate toward finding the beauty in the grotesque, and so does our clientele,'' Ms. Thaxton said. ''We have a lot of art collectors who respond to Simcik's work. He embodies our store by combining past and present and sweet and gritty and precious and mechanical. They're all one of a kind and affordable.''
 Bomb: Seduction Porcelain Vase by Sieger by Furstenberg; White, $410; Platinum, $1,080 ''We do have that customer that gets titillated by all sorts of things, and we thought they'd love this vase. They saw the humor, but that didn't clinch the sale. Maybe it's the price -- but the platinum isn't a silver glaze, it is actual platinum! We joke that while the saying goes, 'Everything's bigger in Texas,' these just weren't ample enough for the Dallas set.''
 Betting On: Gilded Porcelain Elephant Knife Rests by Sieger by Furstenberg, $220 Each ''We try to keep an edited selection of little treasures in our store. This is a small object, but it elevates the table to a luxury level. They're pricey, but they're made of porcelain and hand-gilded with 24-karat gold. We love the bit of comedy in them -- that little dining companion on your table.''
 Gretel, (786) 247-9003 or gretelhome.com
 Abby Kellett, Gretel's owner, is an interiors stylist who got her start in 2004, at Elle Decoration magazine in London. Later that year, she moved to Miami and became the style director for Inside Out magazine, now defunct, leaving in 2007 to have a baby and to do freelance styling for commercial and residential interiors. She started Gretel last year as a Web-only venture, but during Art Basel Miami Beach in December, she set up a pop-up shop in the city's design district and plans to do the same thing next year. ''With an online store, you don't get much contact with people,'' Ms. Kellett said. ''So it was nice to sit there, with all my product around me, and actually talk to people.''
 Best Seller: Talking Heads Beechwood Coat Hangers, $149 for Six ''They look like art when installed on a wall, whether mounted in a straight line or haphazardly,'' Ms. Kellett said. ''There's something tactile about them as well. They're a nice size, beautifully made, easy to install and serve a purpose without costing a fortune.''
 Bomb: Omaggio Vases by Ditte Reckweg and Jelena Schou Nordentoft for Kahler, $39 to $98 ''These embody what we're about -- modern but really beautifully decorative and with a handmade touch to them. They have a real New England feel about them to me, but maybe for Miami they're a little too understated. I still have hope for them; maybe in the summer season, they'll appeal to people a bit more.''
 Betting On: Frame Lights by Iacoli & McAllister, $145 to $225 ''I had three of these hanging in my pop-up store during Design Miami, and people really liked them. There's something minimal about them, but they have the right touch of decoration to them, and they come in vibrant candy colors like green, yellow and magenta.''
 Stitch, 1723 North Damen Avenue, Chicago; (773) 782-1570 or stitchchicago.com
 Pamela Hewett already owned a successful fashion-accessories store in the Lakeview area of Chicago in 1998, when a space opened up in the Wicker Park neighborhood where she lived. ''I wanted to do something bigger, and I wanted to sell furniture,'' she said -- and this was before Wicker Park and the neighboring Bucktown area became the retail mecca they are now. Today, she describes Stitch as a lifestyle store with a 50-50 split between home furnishings and fashion accessories.
 Best Seller: Animal Shot Glasses by Goody Grams, $34 Each
 ''These put a smile on people's faces -- do a shot, forget your problems,'' Ms. Hewett said. ''We sold a lot of Moose and Deer; maybe that's because we're in the Midwest. I also think that with the whole Americana trend -- guys with Grizzly Adams beards and plaid shirts -- these fit in well.''
 Bomb: Delano White Leather Chair by GUS*, $865
 ''I thought this chair was so good looking; it looked like it belonged on the 'Mad Men' set. But it is just too hard-edged for our customers in Chicago. Here, it is all about comfort, nesting and curling up. It comes in black leather too, and neither one sold well.''
 Betting On: Cu Cu Clock by Umberto Tolino for Progetti, $385
 ''This is an organic but modern piece of art that makes you laugh. That little bird comes out of this perfectly crafted Italian piece of art; it makes several different traditional bird sounds and is perfectly chirpy. They successfully mixed an Italian aesthetic with a kooky German idea.
 Homenature, 6 Main Street, Southampton, N.Y.; (631) 287-6277 or homenature.com
 John Heilmann opened the first Homenature store in Amagansett 13 years ago, with just $2,000. In 2004, he opened a second location, in Southampton. But the two stores competed with each other, so he consolidated all operations in Southampton the following year. ''Southampton has a busier downtown, and is a less seasonal town,'' Mr. Heilmann said. He describes his current environment as ''a naturally elegant mix of vintage and production pieces, with a few surprises.''
 Best Seller: Peace Sign Doormat, $25
 ''It's a fun item and an appropriate message for the entrance of a home,'' Mr. Heilmann said. ''The black-and-white color combination is classic; it didn't limit anyone from buying it. If it were green or orange, someone might hesitate.''
 Bomb: Vintage 1970s Glasses, $20 each
 ''We sold other vintage glasses really well, but they weren't pornographic in nature. Once you put cold water in these, the women 'lose' their clothes. I thought these would be a hysterical gift for a guy, and a lot of people picked them up, but nobody bought them. I think it's the price -- at $20 each, you're spending $160 for eight, and that's a more serious price than some might want to pay for a fun thing.''
 Betting On: Driftwood Candelabra, $215
 ''People are always looking for something to put in the middle of the dining room table. This speaks to that and is functional. An organic shape like this, against a really clean surface, looks more dramatic and like sculpture. These are pretty and they aren't small -- about 30 inches long by 12 inches wide. I think they'll have a wide appeal.''
 HW Home 1941 Pearl Street, Boulder, Colo.; (303) 545-0320 or hwhome.com
 Since the first HW Home store opened in Boulder 10 years ago, the company has made it its mission to provide ''Mountain Modern'' style to a clientele ranging from urban professionals to mountain residents with second homes in the city (in this case, Denver). The owners, Ron Werner and Jim Hering, hail from Chicago, where Mr. Werner was a senior vice president at Smith Barney and Mr. Hering a general manager at Holly Hunt. When Mr. Werner's sister asked them to help decorate her Boulder home, they not only fell in love with the area, but realized it was lacking what they refer to as an ''entry-level, high-end'' home furnishings boutique. They now have three more Colorado stores -- in Denver, Broomfield and Greenwood Village.
 Best Seller: Czech Glass Martini Glasses and Wine Goblets, $60 Each
 ''We're the only ones in Colorado that carry this line of glassware,'' Mr. Werner said. ''The glasses are pretty substantial -- you can use the martini glass or as a dessert dish -- and when you pick them up, you feel that they're heavy.''
 Bomb: Earthenware Tableware by Bizzirri, $17.50 to $75 Each
 ''Sometimes you take a chance on pieces because you love them. We designed this collection with a studio in Italy, and we chose a dramatic look and color combination that attracts a very specific customer. I think it might be a little much for every day.''
 Betting On: K9 Dog Beds by Mitchell Gold + Bob Williams, $200 to $1,050
 ''We're going to stock them in a machine washable fabric that's contract-grade, so it's durable and easy to take care of.''
 The Conran Shop, 407 East 59th Street, New York; (866) 755-9079 or conranusa.com
 The first Conran shop, specializing in modern furniture and home accessories, opened in 1973 on Fulham Road in London. It wasn't until 1999 that the retailer opened a New York store, but the timing -- at the height of the modernist craze -- was perfect. After 10 years in the same location, under the Queensboro Bridge, the Conran Shop will move to an 8,500-square-foot space at ABC Carpet & Home in April. While the address will change, we're told the product mix will remain the same.
 Best Seller: Melamine Nesting Bowl Set by Joseph Joseph, $59
 ''I think the three main draws were color, function and space-saving -- it's fun and affordable,'' said David Branham, the buyer for the New York Conran Shop, explaining why the set was such a hit. ''We did a lot of gifting with this item, especially for people in their first apartments.''
 Bomb: Boat Seat With Umbrella by Ben Fowler, $8,450
 ''This is a 100 percent functional boat -- it floats. It comes with a bracket you put on the floor, which holds it steady while you lounge on it. It was handmade by Ben Fowler as part of a project where we gave some artists and designers free rein to create something -- based on Terence's book 'Inspiration' -- and we'd put it in the shop. We put it on the floor on Sept. 19, 2008, which was right about the time the bottom started to fall out of the economy.''
 Betting On: Louisiane Powder-Coated Galvanized Steel Bench, $695
 ''New Yorkers are loving all the classic outdoor cafe furniture, thanks to the city installing so much of it in the new medians, like at Ninth Avenue and 14th Street, beside the Apple store,'' said Mr. Branham. This bench is from a French manufacturer whose goods we've sold for years. It stands out because of color and style -- it's got great curves.''
 Foster's Homeware, 33 North Third Street, Philadelphia; (800) 734-8511 or shopfosters.com
 Foster's opened in 1995, in the Old City area of Philadelphia, as a high-end cookware store. It was the vision of Ken Foster, who had been an art major at Rutgers but had worked in retail management for 15 years. ''There weren't any independent stores in downtown Philly in the '90s,'' Mr. Foster said, ''and I found my niche.'' As the area grew, so did the store, which now sells high-design items for every room of the home.
 Best Seller: Curve Ceramic Teapot by ForLife, $34
 ''It's an old-fashioned teapot with a big belly shape, but a modern contemporary design,'' Mr. Foster said. ''We carry it in eight different colors, and they look great on the shelf. And it's a great price.''
 Bomb: Club Fondue Set by Sagaform, $55
 ''We've sold fondue pots every Christmas since we opened; this is the first time we didn't sell any. This Christmas, people were buying practical gifts, and while it's a luxury thing you might splurge on, nobody needs a fondue pot. The people who are into it already have theirs -- as a trend, fondue is finally over.''
 Betting On: Die-Cut Felt Trivets by Verso Design, $17 to $44
 ''These are made by a mother-daughter team in Finland. They base their designs on Finnish shapes -- the ones I ordered look like a berry plant. They're thick, the colors are perfect, they're functional but decorative and I haven't seen them before.''
 The Paris Market, 36 West Broughton Street, Savannah, Ga.; (912) 232-1500 or theparismarket.com
 Paula Danyluk spent 11 years working as a speech pathologist, but she harbored a passion for interior design, helping friends decorate their homes and scouring blogs to keep up to date on the latest trends. In 2004, she and her husband, Taras Danyluk, an emergency-room physician, opened a home-accessories shop they initially called the Paris Flea Market. Within a year, they had outgrown their 1,100-square-foot space and moved to a spot five times bigger on what is now a bustling thoroughfare. Ms. Danyluk describes their store as ''French style meets industrial'' -- or ''an industrial table with a drippy chandelier over it and a velvet chair in the corner.''
 Best Seller: Throw Pillows by Ryan Studios, $120 to $150
 ''We have very traditional Southern homes in this town,'' Ms. Danyluk said. ''And these elegant, velvet pillows fit in very well with a Southern interior. They're down-filled and very well made, and nobody else in town carries such a nice brand.''
 Bomb: Romero Chair by Cisco Brothers, $4,032
 ''The company that makes this chair is family-owned and makes everything in the U.S. -- the quality is amazing. But it doesn't seem people care about quality anymore; I feel there's a rooms-to-go mentality out there. If someone can get a chair like this for $1,000, they want it. But for $4,000, they want an antique.''
 Betting On: Fold-In Chandelier by Tim Adams, $1,800
 ''The scale of this piece is very dramatic -- it's 54 inches wide by 45 inches high -- and it's handmade by a local artist who is pretty hot right now. I think it's a great price for a handmade item, and he'll custom-make this in different sizes and with different patinas.''
 Propeller, 555 Hayes Street, San Francisco; (415) 701-7767 or propellermodern.com 
 Lorn Dittfeld, the owner, grew up in Miami and spent summers working at an uncle's custom furniture shop. Yet he majored in finance, worked in advertising and traveled the world for a year before finally settling in San Francisco, where he took classes in architecture and color theory at the University of California, Berkeley. ''I knew I was on the design highway, but didn't know which exit I should get off at,'' Mr. Dittfeld said. At a friend's suggestion, he opened Propeller in 2002, with the aim of making furniture, doing interior design and selling the work of independent and emerging designers
 Best Seller: Light Bulb by SMC, $48 to $138
 ''People like the shape and seem intrigued by the intricacy of it. They associate this bulb with something that is old -- it is a feeling of nostalgia, and nostalgia is a happy place. All that aside, they're beautiful objects, they shine and reflect other light. It's almost a completely unpretentious piece of art,'' said Mr. Dittfeld.
 Bomb: War Bowl, Made of Melted Toy Soldiers, by Dominic Wilcox, $400
 ''In this moment we're in, maybe they're too frivolous. It's a $400 bowl that you certainly won't be putting any soup in. You can't even use it as a fruit bowl. It's an object, in of itself, and it can't be anything more than that.''
 Betting On: Cain Collection Chair by Seth Eshelman for Staach, $300 to $425 Each
 ''I think these guys are doing great stuff,'' Mr. Dittfeld said. ''The chair itself is a clean, simple design -- the antidote to the opulence and extravagance of the zeros decade. They harken back to an earlier era of small shops, almost a Shaker type of idea. And I think it's a good price.''
 OK, 8303 West Third Street, Los Angeles; (323) 653-3501 or okthestore.com
 When Larry Schaffer opened OK in 2002, it quickly became a destination for design aficionados from all over the country. Mr. Schaffer is a veteran of the furniture business: in the late '80s, as a 25-year-old, he was put in charge of a furniture store in Los Angeles that he declines to name, but describes as being ''like Modern Age was in New York at that time.'' After it ''crashed and burned,'' he said, he did odd jobs, like working at a glass gallery, before starting his own home-accessories business with just $5,000, two years before he opened OK. He describes his clientele as ''extremely smart, sophisticated and hip, but not in my field. They know as much about fashion, literature and film as I know about design.''
 Best Seller: Leather bookends by Sandy Voor, $150 to $185 a pair (sold out)
 ''I travel all over the world and so does my customer. Things have become so global that you'll see some of the same things in each store, whether it's 10 Corso Como or Colette,'' Mr. Schaffer said, referring to the well-known stores in Milan and Paris. ''But you won't see these everywhere, because they're handmade by a woman in upstate New York. People like something that was made by a real person. I put these in our children's book section, and I had to reorder them four times in December.''
 Bomb: Blown-glass bowl by Bill Burch, $325
 ''Because I used to work for a vintage glass dealer, I know that Bill's stuff is extremely sophisticated and well made. If my customers were glass aficionados, they'd realize this and want it. But they're not, which is why we stopped selling really expensive glass a few years ago.''
 Betting On: Ceramic tube vases by Josh Herman, $200 to $300
 ''People are really interested in pottery right now. It's earthy and understated. The thing that is hardest to find are ceramics that are simple and pure, but also beautiful. These are beautifully thrown, but what makes them is the glaze -- Josh does very skilled work.''
 Kuhl-Linscomb, 2424 West Alabama, Houston; (713) 526-6000 or kuhl-linscomb.com
 Most stores featured here are small boutiques, but Kuhl-Linscomb is an exception -- a 70,000-square-foot store spanning five buildings, owned by the husband-and-wife team Pam Kuhl-Linscomb and Dan Linscomb. Mrs. Kuhl-Linscomb started an interior design firm in 1984, and the couple opened the store 10 years later. Their product mix includes nearly everything for the home -- both new and antique -- along with stationery, CD's, jewelry and apothecary items. The company offers interior design services as well, focusing on specific spaces like closets and kitchens.
 Best Seller: Screw Dining Tables by Tom Dixon, $1,700 or $1,260
 ''The table has an industrial look and Old World look at the same time -- the marble top has a great patina to it -- so it appealed to a wide range of customers,'' Ms. Kuhl-Linscomb said. ''And Tom Dixon is really hot right now, so people who know him love that table even more.''
 Bomb: Third Drawer Down Linen Tea Towels, $42 Each
 ''These are beautifully designed, but not easy to understand. We think we had them in the wrong area -- we tried to merchandise them with our traditional tea towels, and I think they cater to a more artistic customer.''
 Betting On: 
 La Stanza Dello Scirocco Baskets by Mario Trimarchi for Alessi, $32 to $120 Each ''We noticed a lot of geometric shapes in design right now. We're displaying this in a setting at the center of a table, and people notice it right away -- it's gotten a lot of interest. It's in an area with other designers that this customer likes or will recognize, like Philippe Starck and Michael Graves.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE, PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOP RIGHT, TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
PHOTOS (D6)
PHOTOS
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLAUDIA URIBE TOUR)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); CENSUS (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



806 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Wins in Bid For Money For Hospital

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
Ending one of the longest-running disputes left by Hurricane Katrina, a federal arbitration panel ruled Wednesday that Louisiana would receive $474.8 million -- nearly all it had requested -- to pay for the replacement of Charity Hospital in New Orleans, which has been closed since the storm.
 The ruling is a significant victory for state and city officials, and gives a major boost to plans to replace Charity, a state-owned hospital for the indigent, with a new $1.2 billion academic medical center in the Mid-City neighborhood. 
 ''This is a great week in Louisiana,'' Gov. Bobby Jindal, a Republican, exulted in a statement. ''First, the Saints' victory, and now we finally get the funds we need to replace Charity Hospital.'' 
 The plan to build a new Charity has pitted economic development advocates, who hope to transform New Orleans into a biosciences center, against neighborhood preservationists, who oppose the planned destruction of historic houses in Mid-City. The preservationists argue that Charity's 70-year-old art deco tower downtown could be reoccupied for less money, reinvigorating the central business district in the process.
 The state's ability to afford the new center, which would be built adjacent to a Veterans Affairs hospital, had been linked to the outcome of the arbitration. An additional $300 million has been appropriated by the State Legislature, and the rest is expected to come from the sale of revenue bonds.
 State officials and the Federal Emergency Management Agency had been locked in a dispute for more than four years about whether Charity was so damaged that it had to be replaced, and how much Washington would owe.
 The state argued that Charity met the federal standard for replacement because damages caused by the 2005 storm amounted to more than half its value. State officials estimated the replacement cost at $491.9 million. 
 FEMA had projected it would cost $126.1 million to repair Charity, and had offered $150 million to settle the dispute. With the sides making little headway, Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, inserted language in the stimulus bill last year to create a binding arbitration process.
 The arbitration panel, consisting of three judges from the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, ruled quickly after a weeklong, closed-door hearing in Washington that ended on Jan. 15. The only victory for the emergency management agency was that the judges accepted its slightly lower estimate of the hospital's replacement cost.
 In their ruling, the judges noted that the agency's officials ''were less experienced and less credible'' than the consultants hired by the state to assess damage at Charity. 
 While FEMA questioned whether some of the damage was storm-related, ''the witnesses and record offered inadequate support to make the skepticism reasonable,'' they wrote.
 The panel noted that some of Charity's systems were operating ''at a sub-optimal level'' before the hurricane and that the state's protection of the building after the storm ''may not have been perfect.'' But it indicated that its ruling had not been a close call.
 ''It's unfortunate that it took this long to get to this point, but we're glad that we're finally there,'' said P. Raymond Lamonica, general counsel for the Louisiana State University System, which would own the newly constructed hospital.
 Jack Davis, president of Smart Growth for Louisiana, which opposes the new medical center, said the arbitration ruling should spur the state to rebuild the old Charity, which he said would be faster and less expensive to construct. Among other things, Mr. Davis said, it would save the time and cost of defending lawsuits that have challenged the new site on environmental grounds.
 ''Sometime soon, it will dawn on the political leadership that they can't do the big expensive L.S.U. plan,'' he said, ''and that they're going to have to settle on $800 million of new hospital, using Charity.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The waiting room of Charity Hospital in New Orleans, closed since Hurricane Katrina in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL GERBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); WITNESSES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (72%); CITIES (71%); CONTRACTS LAW (61%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (51%); BONDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (58%); BOBBY JINDAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



807 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Profit Falls 65%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Caterpillar, the heavy equipment maker, said on Wednesday that fourth-quarter profit fell as demand remained weak but that it expected sales to rebound in 2010 as the economy improved and dealers replaced inventory. 
 Leading the way will be China and other developing countries, where an increasing share of the company's machinery is sold.
 Caterpillar said its profit last quarter fell 65 percent, to $232 million, or 36 cents a share, from $661 million, or $1.08 a share, a year earlier. Sales fell 39 percent, to $7.9 billion, from $12.92 billion.
 Though sales will probably pick up next year, Caterpillar's profit estimate for the year, about $2.50 a share, fell short of what many analysts had expected.
 Stock in Caterpillar, which is based in Peoria, Ill., fell $2.41, or 4.3 percent, to $53.44 a share.
 Mike DeWalt, the company's director of investor relations, said he thought Wall Street overestimated Caterpillar's earnings capability after the company said in October that it expected revenue to climb 10 to 25 percent in 2010.
 ''They got a little ahead of expectations because we weren't able to provide them profit guidance in the third quarter,'' Mr. DeWalt said.
 Caterpillar said that sales in China had rebounded strongly, but that markets in North America, Europe and other developed regions continued to struggle. The company said it expected growth of more than 10 percent in China and 8 percent in India in 2010. That is much more robust than the 3.5 percent growth Caterpillar predicted for the United States and the 1 percent growth in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



808 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: A Populist Promise To Press On With Goals

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
He took office a year ago promising to change Washington. On Wednesday, President Obama tried to convince viewers that Washington hasn't changed him. 
 Mr. Obama's State of the Union address was as much about his state of mind as the nation's: the president repeatedly asserted that he feels as strongly about the impasse in the capital as ordinary Americans do. 
 ''From the day I took office, I have been told that addressing our larger challenges is too ambitious, that such efforts would be too contentious, that our political system is too gridlocked, and that we should just put things on hold for awhile,'' Mr. Obama said. ''For those who make these claims, I have one simple question: How long should we wait?'' 
 In the age of instant communication, a State of the Union address is less a speech than a chance to reboot. Presidents use the solemnity of the setting to reset expectations. It's an hour (or more) of deference in a clattering, noisy world, a moment when the president holds forth on all the news networks, and can readjust his message.
 And Mr. Obama did just that, at times using an informal, interlocutive style that made the speech seem as much like a town meeting as a joint session of Congress. 
 He is known for giving eloquent speeches, and also for a professorial coolness when explaining policy details. Wednesday night, Mr. Obama used a mix of humor and stern exhortation to remind voters why they elected him -- even as he promised that he would not let electoral politics derail economic reform. 
 It was a populist message delivered with patrician restraint, a presidential performance tinged with a little of the anti-establishment zeal of the Tea Party movement -- a Green Tea movement. ''And if there's one thing that has unified Democrats and Republicans, it's that we all hated the bank bailout,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I hated it. You hated it. It was about as popular as a root canal.'' 
 The Republican response was almost as carefully choreographed as the president's address -- mindful of last year's much-ridiculed performance by Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. 
 This time, Gov. Robert F. McDonnell of Virginia spoke from the State House surrounded by a winsome, multicultural selection of colleagues and supporters who clapped throughout, as if at a State of the Union of their own.
 Mr. McDonnell was respectful of the president, even pointing out where he and his party agreed with Mr. Obama, but cast his objections as a populist protest against big government. ''What government should not do is pile on more taxation, regulation and litigation that kill jobs and hurt the middle class,'' Mr. McDonnell said.
 Mr. Obama reminded his audience that he inherited a recession, a deficit and two wars. The camera can be a weapon on these occasions, and Mr. Obama used it well, teasing the Republicans in the chamber for sitting stonily and refusing to clap even when he spoke of lowering taxes. As the camera panned the silent, seated half of the room -- a snapshot of sullen resistance -- Mr. Obama joked, ''I thought I'd get some applause on that one.''
 A few Republicans jeered when Mr. Obama explained that his deficit-reduction proposals would only go into effect next year, when, he said, the economy would be stronger. And the president took exception to that rebuke, and added one of his own, ''That's how budgeting works.''
 Mr. Obama cast the administration's mistakes as a communications lapse, not flawed decision-making. He managed to suggest that partisan posturing clouded his message about health care and the economy.
 ''Still, this is a complex issue, and the longer it was debated, the more skeptical people became,'' he said. ''I take my share of the blame for not explaining it more clearly to the American people. And I know that with all the lobbying and horse-trading, this process left most Americans wondering what's in it for them.''
 Complaining that ''we face a deficit of trust,'' Mr. Obama said the change he sought in his first year was sabotaged by politicians, lobbyists, bankers and television pundits. (Mostly, TV commentators were positive, though Chris Matthews of MSNBC gave Mr. Obama a back-handed compliment, saying the speech was so postracial and so far-reaching that ''I forgot he was black.'') 
 And some of his most passionate phrases were directed at ''the numbing weight of our politics.'' He appealed to legislators' conscience: ''We cannot wage a perpetual campaign where the only goal is to see who can get the most embarrassing headlines about their opponent -- a belief that if you lose, I win.'' 
 The adage says that in a democracy, people get the government they deserve. Mr. Obama used his time before Congress to posit that, actually, the American people deserve a better legislative branch.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Thursday with the TV Watch column, about President Obama's State of the Union address, misidentified, in some editions, two people shown watching the speech at a Los Angeles cultural center. They are Chez Nwanyanwu and Juliet Lawrence, not Wajenda and Ivory Chambesi. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wajenda and Ivory Chambesi watched the president's speech at a Los Angeles cultural center, where many spoke of health care. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); LITIGATION (50%); BANK FAILURES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BOBBY JINDAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



809 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Closer Look at Assertions on Domestic and Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
In his State of the Union message, President Obama offered his assessment of domestic and foreign policy initiatives in his first year of office. Here is an examination of some of the points he raised:
 In defending his economic policies, Mr. Obama said that ''because of the steps we took, there are about two million Americans working right now who would otherwise be unemployed.''
 That number is drawn from a complex assessmentpublished two weeks ago by his Council of Economic Advisers, which puts the number at between 1.5 million and 2 million -- within the range, but a bit on the high side, of several recent economic estimates. It is a ballpark estimate, and it includes the ripple effects of tax cuts, near-zero interest rates and other policies. When the White House tried in October to tally actual jobs saved by $159 billion in stimulus spending, its estimate of 640,000 was widely criticized as flawed. The economic advisers' latest assessment, instead, provided several ''plausible'' ways of estimating the job revenues; the number Mr. Obama chose to cite in his speech was the highest of seven estimates in the report. 
 It was based on comparing the number of people currently employed with projections that the council said economists would have made many months ago, using typical methods, before the stimulus package was passed. An alternative method used by the council, based on standard economic computer models, suggested the number was 1.7 million. The Congressional Budget Office's latest estimates ranged from a low case of 800,000 to a high of 2.4 million, and three private economic measures ranged from about 1 million to 1.5 million. 
 JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 
 The president appeared to have mischaracterized the Supreme Court's decision to overturn restrictions on corporate-paid political commercials by suggesting that the decision invited political advertisements by foreign companies, too.
 ''Last week, the Supreme Court reversed a century of law to open the floodgates for special interests -- including foreign corporations -- to spend without limit in our elections,'' Mr. Obama said.
 ''Well, I don't think American elections should be bankrolled by America's most powerful interests, and worse, by foreign entities. They should be decided by the American people, and that's why I'm urging Democrats and Republicans to pass a bill that helps to right this wrong.''
 Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., a member of the majority in that decision, broke with the justices' usual decorum to openly dissent. He shook his head no and mouthed the words ''not true.''
 The majority opinion in the case, Citizens United v. the Federal Election Commission, specifically disavowed a verdict on the question of foreign companies' political spending. 
 ''We need not reach the question of whether the government has a compelling interest in preventing foreign individuals or associations from influencing our nation's political process,'' Justice Anthony M. Kennedy wrote. The court held that the First Amendment protected the right of American corporations to spend money on independent political commercials for or against candidates. Some analysts or observers have warned that the principle could open the door to foreign corporations as well. 
 President Obama called for new legislation to prohibit foreign companies from taking advantage of the ruling to spend money to influence American elections. But he is too late; Congress passed the Foreign Agents Registration Act in 1996, which prohibits independent political commercials by foreign nationals or foreign companies. 
 DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK
 President Obama's claim that hundreds of Qaeda fighters and their affiliates have been killed or captured in the past year -- far more than in 2008 -- is probably correct, although there are no precise figures to back up that contention. The president based his assertion largely on the fact that a growing NATO force in Afghanistan battled the Taliban in previously uncontested militant strongholds, and a re-energized Pakistani military reclaimed insurgent-held territory in Swat and South Waziristan. 
 Mr. Obama also directed the Central Intelligence Agency to accelerate armed drone attacks against Qaeda fighters and leaders in Pakistan's tribal areas, and he approved American firepower and intelligence support of Yemeni attacks against Qaeda extremists in that country. His figures include fighters killed and captured not only by the United States, but also by any country receiving American support in combating violent extremism. 
 These successes came at a steep price. In Afghanistan, American soldiers and Marines are dying faster than ever -- twice the number were killed in 2009 as in 2008. 
 ERIC SCHMITT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SAMUEL ALITO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



810 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Amid Moving Boxes and Weary Frustration, Looking for Hope in President's Words

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: KNIGHTDALE, N.C. 

 BODY:
The boxes piled high all around Don Kreamer's house helped explain the mixture of cynicism and weariness with which he settled in to watch President Obama's State of the Union speech on Wednesday night. 
 After a long battle, Mr. Kreamer, 59, and his wife, Sheyenne, 48, learned several weeks ago that their house of nine years in this Raleigh suburb had been sold at a foreclosure auction. They were told they needed to vacate by this weekend.
 But the couple took a break from packing to tune in to the speech.
 ''I'm like everybody else, hoping for hope, hoping for something positive,'' he said. ''I'm tired of the negative.''
 And to a certain extent, he and his wife got it. Both nodded and murmured their agreement, for instance, with the president's remarks encouraging small businesses and continuing to fight for health care reform. But questions remained.
 ''I believe he's got a sincere desire to make the right changes, but I don't know if he's in touch enough to understand how deep the changes need to go,'' Ms. Kreamer said. ''And I don't believe he's got the support of the Congress to get things done.''
 The Kreamers' struggles began in December 2007, when health issues forced Mr. Kreamer to sell the office equipment business he had run for 14 years. Both he and his wife, who had a small business of her own that she tried unsuccessfully to get off the ground, have struggled since then to find work and pay their bills, as the economy spiraled downward.
 Mr. and Ms. Kreamer are in many ways examples of the independent voters who are being courted so heavily by both parties. A Marine veteran, Mr. Kreamer voted for Senator John McCain in 2008, but he said it was a close call. And while he faults some of Mr. Obama's policies, he does not blame the president for all of the country's woes.
 ''I'm fed up with both parties,'' he said. ''They don't want to work together. They don't want to help the average person out there.''
 Health insurance has long been an issue for them, because they could not afford it with Mr. Kreamer's small business. So they were heartened to hear Mr. Obama reaffirm his commitment to the issue.
 But Mr. Kreamer said he still believed President Obama's to-do list was too long, after hearing him tick off plans for everything from immigration reform to an energy bill, as well as the economy.
 ''I think he's got too many things on his agenda, on his plate,'' he said. ''Narrow it down to jobs, helping small businesses, health care.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Don Kreamer in his living room in Knightdale, N.C. ''I'm tired of the negative,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



811 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: An Economic Challenge Is Also a Balancing Act

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a State of the Union speech that sought above all to reassure Americans fretful about job losses and deficits, one short sentence captured the seeming contradiction that has frustrated President Obama's yearlong effort to shape an economic message:
 ''Let's invest in our people without leaving them a mountain of debt.'' 
 That has become the defining challenge of Mr. Obama's presidency: to balance the short-term economic and political demands to spend money and cut taxes now, to stimulate the economy, against the imperative to show a way to reduce the debt over the long term to assure prosperity for future generations.
 Mr. Obama called for new spending and tax cuts that mostly build on the original $787 billion stimulus package he signed nearly a year ago, and that would easily push the cost of all stimulus measures since he took office to over $1 trillion.
 But as even Mr. Obama acknowledged, the additional job-creating steps he proposed would not be nearly enough to erase the 10 percent unemployment rate that bedevils him.
 ''Now if we had taken office in ordinary times, I would have liked nothing more than to start bringing down the deficit,'' he said. ''But we took office amid a crisis, and our efforts to prevent a second depression have added another $1 trillion to our national debt.'' 
 So the president called for several steps to reduce deficits in the near term and over time.
 He proposed a three-year freeze on spending on part of the domestic budget, excluding Medicare and Social Security. That will contribute toward $20 billion in savings for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, Mr. Obama said. Details on the programs to be cut or killed will be in the budget he releases on Monday. 
 Mr. Obama urged Congress to pass a pending ''pay as you go'' measure, to require that new tax cuts or spending increases for benefit programs like Medicare be offset with tax increases or spending cuts to avoid adding to the deficit.
 And on the heels of the Senate's rejection this week of a bill to create a debt-reduction commission, Mr. Obama confirmed that he would establish one by executive order, to report recommendations to Congress by December -- after the midterm elections.
 ''This can't be one of those Washington gimmicks that lets us pretend we've solved a problem,'' he said.
 But it remains unclear whether Congressional Republican leaders will participate; they argue that a commission would be a stalking horse for raising taxes.
 Mr. Obama's latest stimulus proposals included a long-promised tax credit to employers for new hires and tax cuts to encourage both small businesses and corporations to invest.
 ''I want a jobs bill on my desk without delay,'' he told the assembled members of Congress.
 That note of urgency was surely intended as a spur. The Democrats' effort to pass a jobs bill, which was on a fast track in December as the unemployment rate passed 10 percent, has stalled in the Senate. In the wake of the Democrats' loss of the Massachusetts Senate seat, fiscal conservatives are reluctant to add much to deficits that have come to symbolize runaway spending to many independent voters.
 So while the House last month passed a jobs bill priced at $154 billion for small-business tax cuts and money for public works, Senate Democrats are considering a package about half that size. 
 Mr. Obama also proposed to use $30 billion from the financial bailout fund to create a new lending facility, from which banks could draw money to lend to small businesses.
 The president outlined tax breaks to help middle-class families with their child care and tuition costs and retirement savings. He called for an unspecified amount of additional spending for public works and infrastructure projections, including high-speed rail. And without elaboration he set a goal of doubling exports over the next five years to create two million jobs.
 After laying out his plans for both bigger deficits and deficit reduction, Mr. Obama sought to reconcile the two. 
 ''I know that some in my own party will argue that we cannot address the deficit or freeze government spending when so many are still hurting,'' he said. ''I agree, which is why this freeze won't take effect until next year, when the economy is stronger.
 ''But understand: if we don't take meaningful steps to rein in our debt, it could damage our markets, increase the cost of borrowing and jeopardize our recovery -- all of which could have an even worse effect on our job growth and family incomes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); MEDICARE (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



812 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Gives Way To Economy And Jobs

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama drew sustained laughter from Congress, especially Democrats, on Wednesday when he declared in his State of the Union speech that ''by now it should be fairly obvious that I didn't take on health care because it was good politics.''
 But after spending 2009 emphasizing that a health care overhaul was his top domestic priority, Mr. Obama gave it much less prominence in his address. He did not mention it until more than half an hour in -- a sign of how imperiled the bill has become. 
 In the last week, Democrats have vigorously debated among themselves how to salvage the legislation. Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested Wednesday that the Senate would have to take the next step and make substantial changes in its bill before the House would act again.
 Senate aides said the changes recommended by Ms. Pelosi could add $300 billion to the cost of the legislation, which already carries a 10-year price tag of nearly $1 trillion.
 House Democrats disputed the $300 billion figure.
 Even if Democrats can resolve their internal disputes, they must contend with opposition from Republicans, who have been emboldened by their victory in a special Senate election last week in Massachusetts.
 ''If anyone from either party has a better approach that will bring down premiums, bring down the deficit, cover the uninsured, strengthen Medicare for seniors and stop insurance company abuses, let me know,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Let me know.''
 Hearing that invitation, the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, raised his left hand high.
 Mr. Obama's speech did nothing to resolve differences between the House and the Senate or to clarify the way forward. Just 20 weeks ago Mr. Obama stood in the same place and made an urgent plea to a joint session of Congress. ''The time for bickering is over, the time for games has passed,'' he said on Sept. 9.
 ''Now is the time to deliver on health care,'' he said then.
 But on Wednesday health care was wedged into a catalog of presidential priorities, which included jobs, the economy, education, bank regulation, energy independence, deficit reduction and the war in Afghanistan.
 The change highlighted the risks for Mr. Obama in staking more of his political capital on legislation whose fate in Congress is uncertain -- a bill that divides the Democratic caucus, that is reviled by Republicans and that makes many independent voters nervous.
 In his speech Wednesday, Mr. Obama put health care in the context of his economic agenda, saying, ''It is precisely to relieve the burden on middle-class families that we still need health insurance reform.''
 Mr. Obama acknowledged that he had not convinced the American people of the merits of his plan. He traced his failure to communication problems and to the opposition of special interests, not to flaws in the proposal.
 ''The longer it was debated, the more skeptical people became,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I take my share of the blame for not explaining it more clearly to the American people. And I know that with all the lobbying and horse-trading, the process left most Americans wondering what's in it for them.''
 But Mr. Obama stood behind his proposals, which he described as a vast improvement over the status quo. ''As temperatures cool,'' he said, ''I want everyone to take another look at the plan we've proposed.'' 
 In a speech last week in Ohio, Mr. Obama said his campaign for major health legislation had run into ''a little bit of a buzz saw,'' with the Republican victory in Massachusetts. The president blamed ''special interests and armies of lobbyists and partisan politics.''
 But Mr. Boehner, the House minority leader, said Wednesday: ''That buzz saw was not lobbyists and special interests. That buzz saw was the American people saying, 'Stop, we've had enough of this.' '' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); INSURANCE LAW (74%); FAMILY (72%); BANKING LAW (69%); MEDICARE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



813 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: As Nations Meet, Clinton Urges Yemen to Prove Itself Worthy of Aid

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Senior officials from the United States and 19 other countries gathered here on Wednesday to declare themselves friends of Yemen. But Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton administered a dose of tough love, saying Yemen, an impoverished Arab nation, must earn increased foreign aid by rooting out corruption, settling internal strife and protecting the rights of girls and young women.
 Mrs. Clinton, at a major conference focused on the growing terrorist threat from Yemen, said the United States would bolster nonmilitary assistance to the country, but urged it to accept economic remedies proposed by the International Monetary Fund and to enact its own 10-point reform plan. 
 ''I personally believe that now is the moment for the Yemeni government to really step up and do what it has said it will do,'' Mrs. Clinton said after the conference, during which she delivered the same challenging message to Yemen's prime minister, Ali Mohammed Mujawar.
 ''You can't just continue to make promises in the face of very tough challenges like the ones Yemen is facing without being expected to actually manage and resolve some of those problems,'' she said.
 The two-hour conference, organized by the British government, underscored Yemen's status as the latest hot spot in the global struggle against Islamic terrorism. But Mrs. Clinton's hard-edged message enlivened a meeting that otherwise seemed likely to generate polite messages of support, since the British had ruled out asking for financial donations from countries.
 A much larger group of countries will meet on Thursday to talk about security and economic aid for Afghanistan, in the aftermath of the Obama administration's decision to deploy 30,000 more troops there.
 In a sign of how large both countries loom at the White House, President Obama asked Mrs. Clinton to fly to London, even though doing so meant missing his State of the Union address Wednesday night.
 While Iran is not on the agenda in London, it has shadowed Mrs. Clinton's travels here. She tried to add momentum to a global effort to pressure Iran on its nuclear program, meeting with Russia's foreign minister on Wednesday and scheduling a meeting with China's foreign minister on Thursday.
 China has been publicly reluctant to consider new sanctions against Tehran, but Mrs. Clinton insisted that it was not putting up roadblocks. She said the United States would share information with Beijing to win its support.
 ''I don't think there is a mind to change,'' she said. ''I think there is an openness and awareness.''
 Britain's prime minister, Gordon Brown, organized the Yemen conference after the failed Dec. 25 plot to blow up a Northwest Airlines jet bound for Detroit from Amsterdam. Investigators have said the suspect in the bombing attempt, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, told them he had received training and equipment in Yemen.
 The Obama administration has given Yemen intelligence and firepower in recent weeks for attacks on suspected training camps of Al Qaeda, according to American officials. But Mrs. Clinton stressed the need to extend aid beyond counterterrorism to development and governing. 
 She said she had been struck by the Yemeni government's presentation, in which officials cited what they called ''appalling indicators'' -- a growing population, dwindling oil reserves, water shortages and political instability as the government battles Houthi insurgents in the north and secessionists in the south.
 ''I saw something today that is rare to see anywhere, and that is a report by a government that was brutally honest about the problems it faces,'' she said.
 Still, Mrs. Clinton said Yemen would have to persuade donors that it would use aid money wisely. In 2006, a donors' conference raised $5.2 billion for the country, but less than a third of that was delivered because of fears that the money would be misused or siphoned off by corruption.
 Mrs. Clinton also criticized Yemen for rescinding a law that would have set 17 as the minimum age at which a girl could legally be married. In rural areas of the country, the average age for marriage is 12 to 13. 
 Yemen's foreign minister, Abu Bakr al-Qirbi, welcomed Mrs. Clinton's offer of support and largely sidestepped her criticisms. He said Yemen would renew its push for political reforms -- an on-again-off-again process that has frustrated American officials for years. ''The challenges we are facing now cannot be faced unless we implement this agenda of reform,'' he said.
 On Wednesday evening, Mrs. Clinton met the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai. At Thursday's conference, he is expected to announce his government's plan for reintegrating lower- and mid-level Taliban fighters into Afghan society to officials from more than 60 countries.
 The question is whether Mr. Karzai will confront the issue of reaching out to the Taliban's leaders -- an idea that has gained attention with recent comments by the top American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, who said he could eventually envision a role for some Taliban officials in Afghanistan's political establishment. 
 The United Nations recently agreed to Mr. Karzai's request that it remove the names of five Taliban members from its blacklist -- a step that would be necessary for the government to begin talks with most Taliban leaders.
 American officials have tried to keep the focus on the foot soldiers of the Taliban, though officials conceded that they were starting to think about which senior Taliban figures would be acceptable, and which would not.
 ''There is one clear red line, and that is Al Qaeda,'' said Richard C. Holbrooke, the administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, referring to Taliban leaders with links to terrorists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WOMEN (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (61%); AIRLINES (61%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GORDON BROWN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (52%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%) YEMEN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



814 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Iranians Now Blame Germany for Protests

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and NICHOLAS KULISH; Michael Slackman reported from Cairo and Nicholas Kulish from Berlin. Reporting contributed by Mark Landler in London and Judy Dempsey in Berlin.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Iranian officials continued to cast blame for the nation's recent political crisis on foreign interference on Wednesday, focusing their ire for the first time on Germany, one of the country's closest trading partners, with an accusation that its diplomats and intelligence agents helped organize protests at the end of December.
 The accusations followed stronger statements against Iran's nuclear program by German officials, including Chancellor Angela Merkel, who raised the scpecter of new international sanctions against Iran, and an announcement on Tuesday by the Munich-based engineering giant Siemens that it would seek no new business there. 
 ''There is a long tradition of economic cooperation between Germany and Iran,'' Mrs. Merkel said Tuesday at a news conference with the Israeli president, Shimon Peres, at the conclusion of his four-day visit. ''But we believe it is only effective if you try to introduce international sanctions on as broad a base as possible.'' 
 The accusations also coincided with a round of meetings between Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and foreign ministers from Russia, Indonesia and Turkey over Iran's nuclear program.
 Iranian news reports on Wednesday said that an official with Iran's intelligence ministry told reporters in Tehran that two German intelligence agents -- ''Yogi'' and ''Ingo'' -- were part of a German team that helped recruit young people to join protests that turned violent during a normally somber Shiite holiday, Ashura. 
 ''Individuals who were arrested on Ashura were from various groups, one of which was linked with the German intelligence services and was being led by German diplomats,'' said the unnamed intelligence official, according to the semi-official ILNA news service.
 The official told reporters that the protests were organized abroad and cited what he evidence to support his contention: a Facebook page in support of Mir Hussein Moussavi, an opposition leader, run by Iranian expatriates living in Germany; ''incitement'' from BBC Farsi and Voice of America; invitations from the People's Mujaheeen, an exile group Iran considers a terrorist organization; and the fact that many arrested protesters were from outside Tehran.
 But some details of the Iranian account were a matter of confusion; several Iranian new agencies reported that German diplomats had been arrested, while others said only that German diplomats had been involved. One report said that it was an aide to Mr. Moussavi who was arrested. 
 Those that reported the German arrests -- including state television -- did not say if the diplomats were still in custody, while other news agencies reported that the authorities only arrested an aide to Mir Hussein Moussavi, a principal opposition leader.
 ''Two individuals from among Germany's diplomats participated in Ashura Day unrest, and they had Green symbols alongside themselves, and they were distributing even these Green symbols, including T-shirts, to this group of boys and girls,'' was how the ILNA semi-official news agency reported the accusation. The MEHR and ISNA semi-official news agencies reported the arrests, while English-language Press TV did not. 
 The challenge of following events in Iran has grown more complicated since the disputed presidential election last year set of enduring unrest. The government continues to limit foreign access and independent reporting and to penalize local news organizations that offer what the state deems critical reports. 
 For its part, the German government denied that its agents played any role in the protests, or that its diplomats were arrested. ''We reject these accusations in every possible form,'' Germany's Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, told reporters in Berlin on Wednesday.
 But Andreas Peschke, a spokesman for the German Foreign Ministry, appeared to leave open the possibility that German nationals might have been arrested, telling a news conference in Berlin, ''No German diplomats were arrested on December 27th last year.'' 
 The German news service dpa reported that two German police officers who worked at the embassy but did not have diplomatic status had been arrested, but a spokesman for the German Interior Ministry in Berlin said that such reports were ''rumors and nothing more.''
 Whatever the details, it was clear that the Iranian leadership continues to blame its political unrest on an international conspiracy of foreign governments and expatriate Iranians seeking to topple the government. Iran experts said that the leader of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, in particular, believe that the West is trying to mastermind a revolution.
 The Iranian intelligence official, in his statement to reporters, said that a group of expatriates function as liaisons between foreign governments and the opposition inside Iran. They include, he said, a former minister of culture, Atollah Mohajerani, and a prominent cleric, Mohsen Kadivar, both now living in the United States. 
 ''Anti-Islamic Revolution agents, networks backed by Western intelligence services'' and those who seek to promote ''sedition'' in the country planned the Ashura protests, ISNA quoted the official as saying . 
 From the start of Iran's eight-month-old political crisis, the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and his allies in the military and intelligence services have blamed foreign governments for attempting to organize and promote the kind of soft revolutions that brought down governments in Eastern Europe. Until now, Iran had focused its accusations on the United States, Britain and Israel.
 Germany is one of Iran's biggest and most important trading partners, but Berlin has been trying to curtail business with Iran as part of the increase in international pressure to stop Iran's nuclear program.
 At the time of the Ashura demonstrations, Mrs. Merkel condemned the violence as being ''a result of the unacceptable actions of the security forces.'' 
 At the news conference on Tuesday Mrs. Merkel said that the international community had shown ''great patience'' with Iran, but that ''the time has come for us to discuss sanctions also on the international level.'' 
 On Wednesday, Mrs. Clinton, in London for conferences on Yemen and Afghanistan, tried to jump-start the global effort to press Iran on its nuclear program. She also planned to meet Thursday with the foreign minister of China, which has been reluctant to consider fresh sanctions against Tehran. 
 The chief executive of Siemens, Peter Loscher, told shareholders on Tuesday that the company's board had decided last October to stop seeking new contracts with Iran by mid-2010.
 ''Iran sees itself, so to speak, confronted with the developments on the German side, from Siemens and especially by the clear statements from Merkel during the visit by Peres on harder sanctions,'' said Konstantin Kosten, an expert on Iran at the German Council on Foreign Relations in Berlin.
 On Monday, Iranian officials summoned the Swiss ambassador, who represents American interests in Iran, and to complain about American involvement in the recent assassination of Masoud Ali Mohammadi, though according to his friends and his writings, he supported the reform movement -- not the hard-line leadership. Iran also implicated Israel and Britain in the killing.
 In a speech on Tuesday, Ayatollah Khamenei said that the protesters would fail because they are''dependent on the enemy.''
 ''America has spent $45 million in fighting the Islamic system through diplomacy, sanctions, the deployment of spies, hiring mercenaries, and other methods, but has not reached a single positive result,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); MUHARRAM (89%); ARRESTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); ENGINEERING (55%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (57%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (72%); SHIMON PERES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) GERMANY (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); INDONESIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



815 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Tribe, Vowing to Fight Taliban, to Get U.S. Aid in Return

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS; Alissa J. Rubin and Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting.

DATELINE: JALALABAD, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
The leaders of one of the largest Pashtun tribes in a Taliban stronghold said Wednesday that they had agreed to support the American-backed government, battle insurgents and burn down the home of any Afghan who harbored Taliban guerrillas. 
 Elders from the Shinwari tribe, which represents about 400,000 people in eastern Afghanistan, also pledged to send at least one military-age male in each family to the Afghan Army or the police in the event of a Taliban attack. 
 In exchange for their support, American commanders agreed to channel $1 million in development projects directly to the tribal leaders and bypass the local Afghan government, which is widely seen as corrupt. 
 ''The Taliban have been trying to destroy our tribe, and they are taking money from us, and they are taking our sons to fight,'' said Malik Niaz, a Shinwari elder. ''If they defy us now, we will defeat them.'' 
 The pact appears to be the first in which an entire Pashtun tribe has declared war on Taliban insurgents. 
 But the agreement, though promising, is fragile at best. Afghan loyalties are historically fluid, and in the past the government has been unable to prevent Taliban retaliation. The agreement may also be hard to replicate, since it arose from a specific local dispute and economic tensions with the Taliban. 
 While the Shinwaris are now united against the Taliban, if payments from the Americans falter or animosities flare with the Afghan government, the tribe could switch back just as quickly. 
 Moreover, it is not clear that the elders, whatever their intentions, will be able to command the loyalties of their own members. After 30 years of incessant warfare, many of the traditional societal networks in this country have been weakened or destroyed. 
 In many places, the Taliban are stronger than the tribes themselves. 
 Indeed, in the past, Taliban gunmen have killed or threatened tribal leaders who defied them, and the American military and the Afghan government have largely been unable to protect them. 
 Many of the Shinwari elders said Wednesday that they had already received death threats. The brother of one elder, a district governor, has already been killed. 
 The pact is but one plank of a carrot-and-stick strategy toward the Taliban as the United States pours more troops into Afghanistan in the hopes of inflicting setbacks that might make the Taliban more willing to negotiate. While the Americans are rewarding tribes who confront the Taliban, on Thursday the Afghan government is unveiling its latest plan to woo back both Taliban foot soldiers and their leaders. 
 That plan hopes to compensate for past failures that were underfinanced, lacked the buy-in of allies and did not prevent revenge killings. 
 The new plan has two tracks: to reintegrate Taliban fighters into Afghan society and to allow Taliban leaders to play a political role in Afghanistan, a far more politically charged idea. 
 The Karzai government wants countries attending an international conference in London on Thursday to back its plan and agree to finance it -- at least initially. 
 In exchange for laying down arms and agreeing to abide by the Afghan Constitution, Taliban fighters would be guaranteed jobs and an enforceable amnesty. 
 The pact with the Shinwari tribe would complement the reconciliation effort. It echoes a similar phenomenon that unfolded in the Iraq war beginning in late 2006, which ultimately contributed to a substantial drop in violence there. In Iraq, tribal leaders from the country's Sunni minority rebelled against Al Qaeda of Mesopotamia and joined forces with the Americans. The phenomenon was known as the Sunni Awakening.
 But no one expects to be able to duplicate the scale of the Iraq effort, because in many parts of Afghanistan the Taliban have not only intimidated or killed local tribal leaders but insinuated themselves into the very fabric of the hierarchies of the tribes. 
 By contrast, in this part of Afghanistan tribal loyalties are strong and the tension between the Shinwaris and the Taliban longstanding. The conflict came to a head last July, when two Shinwari elders -- Mr. Niaz and Malik Usman -- insisted that a local Taliban commander named Kona stay away from a group of Afghan engineers who were building a dike in their valley. When Kona's men kidnapped two of the engineers, the Shinwari elders decided they had had enough.
 In a confrontation that followed, members from the two Shinwari subtribes killed a senior Taliban commander who had come from Pakistan and chased Kona back across the border. After that, Mr. Niaz and Mr. Usman set up a local militia to keep the Taliban out of the valley, called Momand. 
 ''The whole tribe was with me,'' Mr. Niaz said in an interview in November. ''The Taliban came to kill me, and instead we killed them.'' 
 The dispute also had an economic element. Many Shinwaris make their livings by smuggling across the nearby Pakistani border. According to some tribal members, the Taliban had tried to take over the Shinwaris' business and its smuggling routes. 
 The dispute caught the attention of American Special Forces units, who descended into the Momand Valley on helicopters and offered help to the local Shinwaris. The Americans gave them ammunition and food, they said. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Niaz and Mr. Usman said the Special Forces teams had not visited them in many weeks. Nevertheless, they said, they decided to call in the help of the rest of the tribe. 
 For their part, the regular American Army forces in Jalalabad said they were startled by the Shinwaris' decision. At a tribal council meeting -- called a shura -- held last week, 50 Shinwari elders decided to declare that the entire tribe would oppose the Taliban. 
 ''The shura proclaims that the Shinwari tribe stands unified against all insurgent groups, specifically the Taliban,'' the agreement stated. 
 Among other things, the tribal elders declared harsh penalties against Taliban sympathizers, including huge fines and expulsion from the area. 
 ''The shura authorizes the burning of residences of those found harboring the Taliban,'' the proclamation said. 
 But the Shinwari elders did not merely declare their opposition to the Taliban. Although they declared their allegiance to the Afghan government, they directed at it a nearly equal measure of fury, condemning ''all the corruption and illegal activities that threaten the Afghan people.''
 ''We are doing this for ourselves, and ourselves only,'' said Hajji Kafta, one of the elders. ''We have absolutely no faith in the Afghan government to do anything for us. We don't trust them at all.'' 
 Sensing opportunity -- and wanting the agreement to stick -- the American officers decided to bypass the government entirely and pledge $1 million in development aid directly to the Shinwari elders. That method of financing -- directly to the shuras -- mirrors that of the National Solidarity Program, which has gained much admiration here for the efficient way it has dispensed development aid. 
 The agreement, struck during a hastily arranged tribal council meeting last week, was reaffirmed Wednesday at a gathering of the Shinwari elders, Afghan officials and American commanders in Jalalabad, the capital of Nangarhar Province. The pact was signed by 50 Shinwari elders, some of whom stamped their thumbs on the document because they cannot read. 
 Col. Randy George, the senior American officer in the area, said he was encouraged by the recent events. But he was not declaring victory.
 ''You've got to start somewhere,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shinwari elders united against the Taliban on Wednesday in a pact set in Jalalabad, Afghanistan.(A1)
 Shinwari tribal elders meeting this week in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, established harsh penalties against Taliban sympathizers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A4) MAP(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (94%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); ARMIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



816 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: China's Growth, Measured in Feed

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN and ANTONY CURRIE

 BODY:
China needs fertilizer more than steel. If its industrialization follows the course of other nations, per capita demand for infrastructure like concrete and steel will peak long before meat consumption does. 
 This may explain why mergers and acquisitions activity in the agriculture sector has become so hot. For example, Vale, based in Brazil, just agreed to buy Bunge's Brazilian fertilizer assets for $3.8 billion.
 In the typical path of development, demand shoots up for everything, but industrial goods in particular benefit. Highways, power plants and ports are built, and require construction materials. As a result, companies build steel and cement plants to meet demand, and assembling these factories calls for a lot of their own product. China's per capita production of cement and steel is already at levels higher than those of most industrialized countries. 
 Yet the revolution of the stomach moves at a slower pace. While steel production per capita in the United States peaked in the 1950s, demand for meat has grown consistently. Americans now eat 276 pounds of meat a year, an increase of 60 percent since the 1950s. Other developed countries show similar patterns.
 China is eating more protein, but has far to go to catch up with the developed world. Per capita consumption of meat is less than 100 pounds, and this figure may be inflated. Raising more animals will require copious feed; one full steer requires around 3,000 pounds of feed. Growing this grain will increase demand for fertilizer substantially. China is already the biggest consumer of potash (a quarter of all global production) and the top producer of phosphate -- and it imposed restrictive tariffs on exports in 2008.
 While these trends appear abstract, they affect corporate behavior. The economic crisis sent commodity prices into a tailspin. While steel insiders cautiously slammed the brakes on merger activity, fertilizer companies went hog wild. Among the deals, brawls broke out among the fertilizer groups CF Industries, Terra Industries and Agrium.
 While industry valuations are in line with the market -- CF Industries trades at 14 times estimated earnings, for example -- they deserve a premium. Phosphate and potash markets, in particular, have high barriers to entry, so it makes sense to buy rivals rather than build new facilities. As long as China's taste for meat increases, fertilizer companies should continue to eat one another up.
 A Break for Detroit
 Detroit's Big Three must be breathing a huge sigh of relief. Toyota recently sped past General Motors to become the largest seller of vehicles in the United States. 
 But the Japanese carmaker, which cherishes its reputation for quality, has been forced to stop selling eight of its top models while it tries to fix a problem involving accelerator pedals that stick. This defect has caused 275 crashes and 18 deaths since 1999. Toyota is also recalling 2.3 million vehicles and halting production for a week.
 American automakers, however, should not get too giddy.
 First, it is not yet clear how much Toyota's sales will be hurt. The news is likely to put off some current owners and prospective buyers. And Ford probably stands to benefit the most among domestic manufacturers, largely because it enjoys a better reputation and a more comprehensive lineup of competing vehicles than G.M. or Chrysler. But if Toyota can devise an effective fix quickly, that could prevent mass defections.
 The opening provided by Toyota also comes with a lesson: the company's woes have been exacerbated by its mass use of sharing platforms and parts across different vehicles and different geographies. Cars in Europe also suffered from sticky accelerators. In general, the measure is a smart one that can shave as much as 60 percent off engineering costs on similar vehicles, according to Barclays Capital. 
 Indeed, it's one of the ways Toyota managed to overtake American rivals in their own backyard. Ford, G.M. and Chrysler have been playing catch-up for years. Ford, in particular, is making a big push to share platforms as it cranks up global production of the popular Focus. 
 But as the Japanese automaker is now finding out, the approach can prove incredibly expensive when something goes awry. That should serve as a timely reminder to Detroit that investing in quality control can be at least as important as cutting costs.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2010

 CORRECTION:
The Reuters Breakingviews column on Thursday, about the lessons to carmakers in Toyota's recent problems, misstated Toyota's market status relative to that of General Motors. While Toyota is the top seller of vehicles globally, it is not the leader in the United States. G.M. remains No. 1 in the American market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker loading a bag of cement onto a truck at a plant in Xian, China.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (90%); MERGERS (90%); FERTILIZERS (90%); MEATS (90%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); FERTILIZER MFG (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CEMENT MFG (75%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); AGRICULTURE (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (60%); TOYOTA RECALLS (60%)

COMPANY: AGRIUM INC (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: AGU (TSX) (52%); AGU (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2873 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (59%); SHAANXI, CHINA (59%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



817 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 IRAN BLAMES GERMANY 
 For Protests in December
 Iranian officials cast blame for the country's recent political crisis on Germany, one of its closest trading partners, with an accusation that German diplomats and intelligence agents helped organize protests at the end of December. PAGE A6
 SIGNS OF REVIVAL IN HAITI 
 Port-au-Prince showed increasing signs of stirring back to life as Haitians restarted factory assembly lines, visited their barbers, sought replacement cellphones and even picked up their dry cleaning. PAGE A10
 Honduran President Sworn In A7
 Koreans Reign In Texting World A12
 National
 UNIVERSITY ENDOWMENTS
 Fell 18% in Last Year
 Reflecting the difficult financial environment for higher education, university endowments lost an average of 18.7 percent in the last fiscal year, the worst returns since the Great Depression, according to a study of hundreds of public and private institutions. pAGE A13
 OPPOSING IDEOLOGICAL TEST
 Michael Steele, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, denounced a proposed resolution that would require candidates to adhere to a checklist of conservative positions in order to receive party support, warning that it could undercut his party as it seeks to rebuild and win back control of Congress. PAGE A16
 New York
 RECALLING ITALIAN HOLOCAUST, WITH ADDED ISSUE
 This year's observance of Holocaust Remembrance Day at the Italian Consulate carried an added weight of silence, coming soon after the outbreak of an international, interfaith controversy over the proposed canonization of Pope Pius XII, who presided in Rome during World War II. PAGE A22
 Business
 WITH ADVANCED GADGETS, 
 Patience May Be Required
 America's cellphone network is beginning to bog down because of smartphone usage. A new generation of mobile devices will only add to the strain, creating spotty service on an already overburdened system. PAGE B1
 FED STANDS PAT ON RATES
 The Federal Reserve's policy-setting committee voted to keep short-term interest rates near zero, though it offered a slightly more optimistic assessment of economic activity than it did in December. PAGE B1
 CONCERNS ON VERMONT PLANT
 Levels of radioactive tritium have risen rapidly in recent weeks in the groundwater surrounding Vermont's sole nuclear power plant, leading both longtime supporters and foes of the reactor to question whether it should keep operating. PAGE B3
 DISCLOSING CLIMATE RISK
 The Securities and Exchange Commission said for the first time that public companies should warn investors of any serious risks that global warming might pose to their businesses. PAGE B1
 Arts
 A CLASSICAL HERO
 Spins His Own Legend
 In Zachary Mason's debut novel, ''The Lost Books of the Odyssey,'' Odysseus, the wily warrior and canny voyager from Homer's epic poem emerges as the creator of his own legend. Review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C1
 AUDITION AS POWER STRUGGLE
 Charles Isherwood writes that the actor's audition at the center of ''Venus in Fur,'' a new comedy-drama by David Ives at the Classic Stage Company, is good, kinky fun, and the upper hand does not necessarily belong to the usual suspect. PAGE C1
 Remembering David Sarkisyan C3 
 Sports
 DEBATE OVER TIGHT CLOTHING
 At Action Sports Event
 In snowboard cross and ski cross at the X Games, ESPN's action sports extravaganza, some racers have begun to flirt with a more streamlined look at World Cup events, prompting competitors to call for new rules and stricter enforcement that would preserve fairness and the sports' cherished aesthetic. PAGE B13
 Home
 A BACHELOR'S EFFORT 
 To Understand Love
 While researching a book on modern-day slavery, John Bowe, fell madly in love for the first time in his adult life. But so tormented was Mr. Bowe by his inability to make the relationship work that he began researching other people's romantic experiences. The result is ''Us: Americans Talk About Love,'' a new collection of first-person accounts of why love succeeds or fails. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 HOW TO MAKE TRACKS
 Like an Olympian
 Andrew Newell, a member of the American cross-country team who will compete at the Vancouver Olympics next month, offers workout tips for amateur cross-country skiers. Faster, Higher, Stronger. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A25
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); HOLOCAUST (77%); RELIGION (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); SMARTPHONES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); POWER PLANTS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); BOOK REVIEWS (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); WORLD WAR II (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%); POETRY (60%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL STEELE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) HAITI (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONDURAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



818 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: A Day Before Vote On Bernanke, Fed Leaves Rates Alone

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve decided not to rock the boat on Wednesday. 
 At its first meeting of the year, which came on the eve of a Senate vote that will determine whether Ben S. Bernanke can continue as Fed chairman, the central bank's policy-setting committee voted to keep short-term interest rates near zero. But it offered a slightly more optimistic assessment of economic activity than it had in December. In fact, many economists are predicting much stronger growth in the fourth quarter, more than double the 2.2 percent annual rate of expansion in the third quarter.
 The panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, found that business spending on equipment and software was ''picking up,'' but that investments in factories, warehouses and stores continued to shrink. 
 The committee also reaffirmed that it still intended to wind down one of its most extraordinary interventions in the markets in recent years -- its purchases of $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities -- by the end of March.
 There had been some question over whether the Fed might extend the program past the spring. Some economists have said they were concerned that ending the program would cause mortgage interest rates to rise and lead to another downturn in the fragile housing market, which has only begun to stabilize in much of the country.
 The committee left its main tool of monetary policy, the target federal funds rate -- the rate at which banks lend to one another overnight -- at zero to 0.25 percent, the level it has been at since the depths of the recession in December 2008. 
 The Fed's action had been widely expected, and stocks rose modestly after the Fed's announcement. The Dow closed at 10,236.16, up 41.87 points.
 In a statement after its meeting, the Fed offered a scant hint that it had any concerns about rising prices, saying that inflation ''is likely to be subdued for some time'' -- a subtle change from December, when it said inflation ''will remain subdued for some time.''
 But in a notable expression of dissent, Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, voted against maintaining the target federal funds rate. 
 Mr. Hoenig ''believed that economic and financial conditions had changed sufficiently that the expectation of exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period was no longer warranted,'' according to the Fed statement. 
 It was the first dissenting vote on the committee since January 2009, but several economists noted that it was not entirely surprising. Mr. Hoenig, who is voting on the committee this year as part of a regular rotation among the presidents of 11 of the Fed's 12 regional banks, is considered an inflation hawk, meaning that he is worried that keeping interest rates too low might lead to upward pressure on prices.
 Since last March, the committee has been saying that economic conditions were ''likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period,'' and that language remained intact on Wednesday. 
 The committee's two-day meeting occurred amid a bruising fight over Mr. Bernanke, an academic economist who was named chairman by President George W. Bush in 2005 and took over in 2006. His term as chairman expires on Sunday. (He has a separate 14-year appointment as a Fed governor that lasts until 2020.)
 Last month, the Senate Banking Committee voted 16 to 7 to approve renewing Mr. Bernanke's term, but last week, the nomination suddenly became a flashpoint of outrage over the huge bailouts of financial institutions. 
 The Fed has also come under fire for regulatory failings leading up to the financial crisis. And Mr. Bernanke, a member of the Fed's board from 2002 to 2005, has been blamed for abetting the easy-money policy of his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, who, critics say, kept interest rates too low for too long, precipitating the housing bubble.
 President Obama, who last August proposed extending Mr. Bernanke's term, reaffirmed his support this week. A procedural vote was scheduled for Thursday.
 Dana Johnson, chief economist at Comerica Bank, said that despite a consensus that the Fed should be politically independent, the confirmation battle was inevitably on the mind of the committee members in keeping the interest rate unchanged. 
 ''The economic case for leaving the language the same is strong, but the political considerations -- on the eve of the Bernanke confirmation vote -- dramatically reinforce that case,'' Mr. Johnson said. 
 Peter Hooper, chief economist for Deutsche Bank Securities, said that customary concerns about inflation had been lowered for now because unemployment was at 10 percent. 
 ''The Fed's job is easy today, because we're not even back into positive territory on payroll and employment numbers,'' Mr. Hooper said. ''We're a long ways away from significant inflationary pressures in the labor market.''
 But Kermit Schoenholtz, an adjunct professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University, said that the Fed faced tough choices ahead. ''There is extreme uncertainty about the pace and scale with which they'll have to normalize rates,'' he said. ''It will probably not be as big a concern in the next few months, but will become more of a concern in the latter half of the year.''
 The committee also reiterated that it planned to end, by Monday, other emergency lending programs, including one begun in March 2008 to lend directly to securities firms -- and not only banks -- by giving them access to the Fed's discount window. 
 Another program, in which the Fed and the Treasury have been lending to investors who buy securities backed by loans to consumers and businesses, is to end by June.
 The emergency programs were sharp departures from the history of monetary policy, and Fed officials are treading cautiously in ending them, Mr. Schoenholtz said. 
 ''Getting the timing right on that exit, and doing it in a way that's flexible, so they can re-enter if they need to -- those are the really big challenges,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: News of the Fed's action was heard at the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); RECESSION (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



819 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Best Man

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER. 
Alan S. Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton, was vice chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1994 to 1996.

DATELINE: Princeton, N.J. 

 BODY:
 A SENATE vote on President Obama's nomination of Ben Bernanke for a second four-year term as chairman of the Federal Reserve is imminent. Rejecting him would be a big mistake, for it would both flog a distinguished public servant who helped avert catastrophe and turn the Fed chairmanship into yet another political football. Washington has plenty of political footballs already.
 The case for Ben Bernanke starts with his keen intellect. But perhaps more important in these trying times, he has demonstrated great creativity. He has also displayed the courage to put his head on the chopping block for policies he thinks right. And he is now battle-tested. (Disclosure: I am a long-time friend and former academic colleague of Mr. Bernanke.) 
 Critics frequently point out that Mr. Bernanke has not always made the right calls. It's a fair complaint, but who has always been right? Yes, he initially allowed the Fed to continue the regulatory laxity bequeathed him by Alan Greenspan. No, he did not foresee the full depth of the impending financial implosion. But who did? And, in my view, he and Henry Paulson, then the Treasury secretary, made an egregious error by letting Lehman Brothers collapse. (On the other hand, there were no good options.)
 But his job performance since, say, October 2008 has been superlative. To cite just a few examples, Mr. Bernanke led the Fed to lower its interest rates to virtually zero in December 2008 and then to hold them there. The central bank also invented approaches to lending and purchasing assets that breathed some life into moribund markets like commercial paper and mortgage-backed securities. It led the highly successful ''stress tests'' of 19 large financial institutions last spring. 
 The success of these policies is demonstrable. The simplest and most objective measures of financial distress are the differences, or ''spreads,'' between various (risky) interest rates and the corresponding (risk-free) Treasury rates. During the worst of the crisis, in September to November 2008 and again in February to March 2009, these spreads skyrocketed to dizzying heights. Since then, they have fallen remarkably, providing direct evidence that the Fed's cure is working.
 Success in righting the ''real'' economy has naturally been slower; financial markets always move much faster than gross domestic product, incomes and jobs. But it's palpable nonetheless. The economy was nearly in free fall during the last quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, dropping by 5.4 percent and 6.4 percent in real terms, respectively. 
 Then the moves by the Fed and the Obama administration took hold: G.D.P. barely declined in the second quarter of 2009; and by the third quarter it began to rise. As this was happening, the job loss rate, which was staggering last winter, fell by more than three-quarters. On Friday we will get the initial estimate of fourth-quarter G.D.P. growth, which analysts expect to top 5 percent. And there is a good chance that job growth is about to resume. 
 This rapid improvement came faster than almost anyone expected. The plain truth is that, as bad as the recession was, it turned out to be less horrific than expected, and Ben Bernanke is one of the reasons. Unfortunately, ''it could have been much worse'' doesn't buy you much in politics.
 Finally, senators should think of the institution instead of the man. The Federal Reserve System is one of the great legacies of the Progressive Era. The Fed is not flawless and has made its share of errors over the years. But since the 1950s, it has developed a well-deserved reputation for competence, integrity and, above all, nonpolitical decision-making in what may be the world's most political town. 
 The Fed does not do Congress's bidding, nor the president's. When necessary, it can and does take politically unpopular actions. It can move quickly and decisively in emergencies. If the Fed's political independence is compromised, the nation will lose something valuable.
 There are several threats to that independence right now. But perhaps none is as potentially damaging as turning the nomination of the Fed chairman into a political circus. Doing so would be a sharp break with history, for Fed nominations have not been partisan affairs. Jimmy Carter put Paul Volcker in office, and Ronald Reagan re-nominated him. Mr. Reagan's choice, Alan Greenspan, replaced Mr. Volcker and was retained by the next three administrations. Mr. Obama now proposes to keep in office a Republican chosen by George W. Bush.
 None of these nominations were politically contentious -- until now. No nominee for Fed chairman has ever been rejected by the Senate. Even no votes are relatively rare. In fact, the nominee who received the most negative votes in history was Paul Volcker, who won re-confirmation in 1983 by an 84-16 margin. Yet, in the eyes of many, Mr. Volcker was the greatest Fed chairman ever. Those 16 senators look pretty foolish in the eyes of history. There may be a lesson there.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JUSTIN GABBARD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); DISMISSALS (65%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



820 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Circumstance and Tradition Shape State of the Union Speeches

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
When President Obama enters the House chamber on Wednesday night to deliver his first official State of the Union address, it will be a moment of great challenge and opportunity. Under fire and on the defensive, Mr. Obama will get to speak past the punditocracy directly to the American people as he seeks to reframe his presidency.
 Now where have we heard that before? For a ritual seemingly devoid of much actual meaning, the annual State of the Union address somehow seems to come quite often at critical moments for the presidents who deliver it. They use it to lay out a broad and sweeping agenda or to turn around a failing one. They use it to confront a hostile Congress or to rally the public against a feckless political establishment. 
 But not every State of the Union is built alike. The history of the speech is replete with drama, peculiarities, glory and near-disasters. Some presidents were better at the form than others some more eloquent and commanding, some more long-winded and tedious. Some drank in the moment, others dreaded it. And now it is Mr. Obama's turn to declare that the state of the nation is strong or explain why it is not and how he intends to make it strong again.
 The speech, of course, was not always a speech. The State of the Union owes its place in the political firmament to Article II, Section 3, of the Constitution, which mandates that the president ''shall from time to time give to the Congress Information on the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient.''
 George Washington and John Adams delivered their messages to Congress in person. Washington kept his first speech quite expedient at just 833 words, probably taking about five minutes to deliver. (Imagine all the time left over for post-speech commentary had there only been cable television!) But Thomas Jefferson thought the practice reeked of British monarchy and sent his in writing.
 That was the custom for the next century until Woodrow Wilson revived the practice of appearing in person, and even then it was not until Franklin D. Roosevelt that presidents made that the default practice. Calvin Coolidge was the first to have his broadcast on radio in 1923 and Harry Truman the first to have his shown on television in 1947.
 But the modern practice most Americans are familiar with began in 1965 when Lyndon B. Johnson moved the address to the evening, at which point it became watched by a broader audience that, in that era at least, had few other options (no ''Lost'' back then, just ''Lost in Space'').
 Even in recent times, presidents still occasionally take a pass. Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower and Jimmy Carter all sent their final messages in writing. In 1956, when Eisenhower was recuperating from a heart attack, he simply filmed a seven-minute talk from his retreat in Florida. 
 Richard M. Nixon sent a printed version in 1973, reasoning that his second inaugural address had made his point. Likewise, ever since Ronald Reagan, outgoing presidents in their final weeks in office have chosen not to deliver a State of the Union, while their successors went ahead and addressed Congress without calling them State of the Union speeches, just as Mr. Obama did last year.
 Reagan, actually, was the only one in modern times to cancel and reschedule his speech, which he did in 1986 after learning of the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger. Bill Clinton, on the other hand, had several occasions where he or at least his staff might have wanted to cancel, but went through with it anyway.
 Mr. Clinton, after all, surely had some of the most memorable State of the Union experiences. He used his addresses in 1995 and 1996 to reposition himself after the Republican takeover of Congress, declaring that ''the era of big government is over.'' But by his second term, his State of the Union appearances seemed to turn increasingly surreal with each passing year.
 In 1997, he appeared in the House chamber at the same moment a California jury was handing down its verdict in the much-watched civil trial of O.J. Simpson, leading television networks to show the two events in riveting split-screen fashion. It was something of a minor miracle Mr. Clinton was able to proceed anyway, since a last-minute computer glitch had merged his entire text on the teleprompter into a single, indigestible paragraph, leaving panicked aides scrambling to reinsert paragraph breaks.
 That little drama, of course, would prove minor compared to the psychodrama that awaited. In 1998, Mr. Clinton arrived on Capitol Hill for the speech just days after his affair with Monica Lewinsky was exposed, yet he went through his oratory with nary a mention of the scandal rapidly consuming his presidency. Then in 1999, he unveiled his policy agenda to the same House members who had just impeached him for covering up the affair in legal proceedings and the same senators who by day were conducting a trial to determine whether he should be evicted from office.
 George W. Bush found his State of the Union addresses dominated by war not women, as he declared in 2002 that Iraq was part of an ''axis of evil'' and then in 2007 that he had underestimated how many troops would be needed to put down the evildoers in Iraq in the first place. 
 Against all that history, what's a lost Senate seat from Massachusetts? Maybe not much. But added to all the other difficulties afflicting Mr. Obama and the country unemployment, the deficit, health care, Wall Street, terrorism and Afghanistan the state of his union is precarious enough that tens of millions will be waiting to see what he judges necessary and expedient.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); BRITISH MONARCHS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



821 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: A Bid to Recapture the Magic, a Dose of Reality

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
By now, President Obama can hardly be under any illusions about the depth of the partisan divide as he seeks to reboot his presidency. Yet he still seemed surprised on Wednesday night when he could not get Republicans to applaud tax cuts.
 As he boasted in his first State of the Union address that his economic program had cut taxes for 95 percent of working families, Democrats jumped to their feet to cheer. Republicans sat quietly. Mr. Obama paused as he glanced over to their side of the House chamber. ''I thought I'd get some applause on that one,'' he said. 
 If Mr. Obama thought he could take the rostrum in the House chamber and restore his image as the change agent who came to Washington to end the politics of division, he received another reminder just how hard that will be. Mr. Obama tried to recapture the magic of his yes-we-can campaign after a season of no-we-can't governing, but conceded little if any ground to critics on either the right or the left.
 It was a confident performance, more defiant than contrite, more conversational than soaring. He appealed to and scolded both parties, threatened vetoes, blamed his predecessor and poked fun at lawmakers. The agenda was largely the same, dressed up in fresh packaging, as he offered point-by-point rebuttals to the litany of critiques he hears with increasing frequency. He acknowledged only a failure to explain his policies without retreating an inch on the policies themselves. His main message: ''I don't quit.''
 In the wake of last week's Republican victory in the special election for a Massachusetts Senate seat, Mr. Obama had to tackle head-on the disappointment that has dragged down his poll numbers. He pleaded for patience and understanding. ''I campaigned on the promise of change; 'change we can believe in,' the slogan went,'' he said toward the end of the address. ''And right now, I know there are many Americans who aren't sure if they still believe we can change -- or that I can deliver it.
 ''But, remember this,'' he went on. ''I never suggested that change would be easy, or that I can do it alone. Democracy in a nation of 300 million people can be noisy and messy and complicated. And when you try to do big things and make big changes, it stirs passions and controversy. That's just how it is.''
 After a year of learning just how it is, Mr. Obama adopted again the mantle of reformer he wore the first time he addressed Congress as president a year ago. He even used the same phrase, ''deficit of trust,'' to describe his diagnosis, and he proposed some of the same medicine in the form of cracking down on lobbyists and special-interest spending.
 But he is not in the same place he was a year ago and he gave little indication how he would change the dynamics that have frustrated much of his agenda so far. After all, when he addressed Congress last year, his strategists were developing a big-bang plan to move ahead on multiple fronts.
 By the end of his first year in office, they had expected to have overhauled the health care system, enacted a market-based cap on carbon emissions blamed for climate change, imposed a new regulatory system on financial institutions, closed the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and signed a new arms control treaty with Russia. None of those have happened, and while some of the proposals quite plausibly still could, Mr. Obama left unclear his strategy for getting there.
 Instead, he expressed the frustration common in the White House these days: that he has not gotten more credit for the successes he has had, particularly in pulling the economy back from the brink of a new Great Depression. 
 That was where the tax cuts came in. While the economic stimulus package Mr. Obama pushed through Congress last year is known largely for its spending, he pointed out that it also included a variety of tax cuts, and then repeated it in case anyone missed it. The Republicans who chose not to applaud have argued that the tax cuts were simply accompanied by too much spending.
 In fact, when it comes to his program, the narrative of too much was the major notion Mr. Obama was trying to dispel. Gov. Robert F. McDonnell, the newly inaugurated Republican leader in Virginia, emphasized the point in his official response to the president's speech. ''Today, the federal government is simply trying to do too much,'' Mr. McDonnell said.
 In the face of that judgment, shared not just by Republicans these days, Mr. Obama could have pulled back but chose to push forward. To those who said his ideas have been too ambitious, he said: ''I have one simple question: How long should we wait? How long should America put its future on hold?''
 The truth is, Mr. Obama is still trying to figure that out for himself. Since the Massachusetts election cost the Democrats unilateral control of the Senate, the president and his advisers have been grappling for a plan to move forward on his agenda. Some things inevitably will have to wait, and Mr. Obama's plans since last week have been a work in progress.
 The day after last week's election, he suggested returning to the ''core elements'' of health care, only to have aides hours later try to walk back the statement and insist he did not necessarily mean he wanted a scaled-back plan. 
 Even on Wednesday, the plans seemed fluid, literally changing even in the final hours, either in substance or in presentation. When aides previewed the speech for reporters in midafternoon, they said Mr. Obama's plan to spur lending to small businesses would draw $25 billion from repaid bailout loans. By the time he spoke in the House chamber six hours later, the amount had increased to $30 billion.
 Such differences might have meant little to viewers trying to gauge whether the Mr. Obama they were watching was the same Mr. Obama they voted for. ''I never thought the mere fact of my election would usher in peace, harmony and some post-partisan era,'' he said.
 On that, pretty much everyone could agree.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama greeting lawmakers on Wednesday as he entered the House chamber.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., left, with the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid. President Obama will need help from both to move forward with his agenda.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA LUCIDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) GRAPHIC: The First Lady's Guests: 1 Janell Kellett, the wife of a Wisconsin Army National Guardsman and lead volunteer for the Family Readiness Group for her husband's brigade. 2 Senior Sgt. Mark Todd and Sgt. Kimberly D. Munley, police officers who are credited with stopping the gunman in the shootings at Fort Hood, Tex., in November. 3 Michelle Obama 4 Rebecca Knerr, wife of a firefighter who is leading a Virginia-based rescue team in Haiti. 5 Jill Biden 6 Julia Frost, a former Marine attending college with the aid of an education benefit program for veterans, co-sponsored by Barack Obama when he was a senator. 7 Christine Lardner, who contacted the White House after a credit-card company nearly tripled her interest rate. On May 22, President Obama signed a bill restricting credit-card companies' practices. 8 Trevor Yager, owner of Indianapolis advertising firm who says he has benefited from Mr. Obama's economic initiatives. 9 Sgt. First Class Andrew Rubin of the Army, who has served four combat tours in Iraq and two in Afghanistan. 10 Raymond Joseph, Haiti's ambassador to the United States. 11 Jeffrey Brown, founder of a 10-store supermarket chain in the Philadelphia area. 12 Juan Yepez from Ecuador, who with his brother won an award from the Small Business Administration. The brothers own a commercial real estate company and an electronics distribution company. 13 Ping Fu, co-founder of a 3-D software firm that participates in the government's Small Business Innovation Research Program. 14 Mayor Mick Cornett of Oklahoma City, a Republican, who started an antiobesity initiative. Mrs. Obama is spearheading an initiative to reduce childhood obesity.(Source: The White House)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FAMILY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MICHELLE OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (78%); HARRY REID (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (92%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



822 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: The Second Year

 BODY:
The union is in a state of deep and justifiable anxiety about jobs and mortgages and two long, bloody wars. President Obama did not create these problems, and none could be solved in one year. But 2009 offered powerful and, at times, bruising lessons for a new president struggling to fulfill the seismic promise of his election. 
 Mr. Obama used his first State of the Union address to show the country what he has learned and how he intends to govern in the next three years. 
 He was right to make the creation of jobs and the reform of the far too vulnerable financial system his top priorities. And Mr. Obama made it clear that he would not be cowed by Washington's venomous politics, his own mistakes, or the Massachusetts election into giving up on health care reform. It was a relief to see him challenge the Senate's Republicans for their obstruction and his party for tending to ''run for the hills'' rather than wield the power of its majority.
 Watching Mr. Obama, we were also reminded of the world's relief that he is very much not George W. Bush. He is managing the necessary exit from Iraq. His decision to send more troops to Afghanistan was courageous and sound. On Wednesday, he rejected ''the false choice'' between security and the rule of law.
 At home, Mr. Obama won an economic recovery bill that was too small but staved off an even deeper recession. He raised fuel standards for cars and appointed Sonia Sotomayor to a Supreme Court that had been drifting dangerously rightward. That is good, but not enough, and the president acknowledged that before Congress and the nation on Wednesday night.
 Like Mr. Obama, we, too, would like to see bipartisan cooperation. But all too often Mr. Obama has underestimated the Republicans' determination to block anything he proposed. When the economy was imploding only three Republican senators voted for the absolutely essential stimulus bill; none agreed to back health care reform or even vote to end a filibuster.
 So it was good to see him get tougher and clearer about going forward. If the Republicans want to continue to block bills that the country wants and needs, he should let them filibuster so the public can take notice. We would have liked to have heard a more forceful demand -- rather than a polite invitation -- for the Republicans to either support his health care reform plan or produce their own plan, one that provides real security for all Americans and has a real chance to reduce costs.
 After their taxpayer-financed bailout, Mr. Obama was right to call for additional taxes on the big banks. (And he should support the drive in the House to tax bankers' obscene bonuses.) 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama said he would veto any financial regulatory reform bill that was not strong enough and warned that lobbyists in the Senate were weakening the version passed by the House. To our minds, the House bill was not good enough -- creating a weak consumer protection agency and leaving loopholes in derivatives regulation. We hope Mr. Obama quickly spells out his bottom line for the reform package.
 Mr. Obama acknowledged Americans' anxiety about the deficit, and he was right to announce that he would create a bipartisan panel to come up with ideas to address it now that Senate Republicans have rejected the idea without a vote. But the first priority must be creating more jobs and helping more Americans with their mortgages. 
 The private sector seems unlikely to propel a self-sustaining recovery any time soon. That means more stimulus spending, not less, much more than the $154 billion jobs bill the House has passed. Mr. Obama offered some additional ideas, lending money to small businesses and giving them incentives for capital investments. The country will need to hear a lot more about that and how he plans to keep Americans in their homes. 
 We respect Mr. Obama's deliberative nature. But too often in the last year he lingered on the sidelines, allowing his opponents to define and distort the issues and, sometimes, him -- as happened last year in the health care debate. 
 His speech Wednesday was a reminder that he is a gifted orator, able to inspire with grand vision and the simple truth frankly spoken. It was a long time coming. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); VETO (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



823 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Balks at 9/11 Trial, Dealing Blow to White House

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and AL BAKER; Scott Shane contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Obama administration on Wednesday lost its most prominent backer of the plan to try the self-described mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks in Lower Manhattan when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the trial should not be held in New York City. 
 The mayor's reversal was a political blow to the White House's efforts to resolve a landmark terror case a few blocks from where Al Qaeda hijackers rammed planes into the World Trade Center, a trial that the president saw as an important demonstration of American justice. 
 Mr. Bloomberg said that a more secure location, like a military base, would be less disruptive and less costly. His remarks echoed growing opposition from Wall Street executives, the real estate industry and neighborhood groups, who have questioned the burdens that such a trial would bring to a heavily trafficked area of the city. 
 ''It's going to cost an awful lot of money and disturb an awful lot of people,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference in Brooklyn. ''My hope is that the attorney general and the president decide to change their mind.''
 Administration officials expressed chagrin at the mayor's statements, which appeared to come as a surprise. But there was no immediate talk of revising the decision to hold criminal trials for Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and his co-defendants in New York. 
 ''Our federal courts have a long history of safely and securely handling international terrorism cases, and no district has a longer history than the Southern District of New York in Manhattan,'' said Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman.
 Mr. Bloomberg's comments came in response to a question about a unanimous vote by a Lower Manhattan community board urging that the trial be held elsewhere. He did not explicitly demand that the trial be moved. 
 Still, his forceful objections came at a difficult time for the administration, which announced in November that it would prosecute Mr. Mohammed and other Qaeda operatives in federal criminal court rather than before a military tribunal.
 Congressional Republicans are threatening a financial maneuver to block the trials from being held in New York and are certain to seize on the mayor's remarks. On Tuesday, six senators wrote to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and urged him to abandon the idea. 
 The letter, signed by Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut; John McCain, Republican of Arizona; Blanche L. Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas; Susan M. Collins, Republican of Maine; Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia; and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, read, in part, ''You will be providing them one of the most visible platforms in the world to exalt their past acts and to rally others in support of further terrorism.''
 David B. Rivkin, a former Justice Department and White House lawyer in Republican administrations who favors military commissions, said that while the mayor's view had no legal force, it had enormous political significance.
 ''The administration is at a precarious point on this issue,'' Mr. Rivkin said. If a quick solution is not found to the dispute over a trial site, he said, ''this whole thing could come crashing down,'' forcing the administration to reverse course and place Mr. Mohammed before a military commission at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
 Mr. Bloomberg had steadfastly supported the location of the trial. When the news broke two months ago, he declared, ''It is fitting that 9/11 suspects face justice near the World Trade Center site, where so many New Yorkers were murdered.''
 But over the past few weeks, he has heard from scores of business and community leaders who urged him to reverse course. Real estate brokers argued that security restrictions would dampen the market for apartments in Chinatown and TriBeCa; small-business owners feared a severe drop-off in customers; and residents worried that they would be unable to use their local streets. 
 The Police Department has said that in preparation for the trial, the area around the courthouse would be flooded with uniformed police officers, in cars and on horseback, and surrounded by 2,000 interlocking metal barriers. 
 ''I believe it would destroy the economy in Lower Manhattan,'' said Steve Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, which represents property owners. He has urged the mayor's office to speak out against holding the trial in the city. 
 The city estimated it would spend more than $200 million a year on security for the trial, making it one of the most expensive security operations it would ever take on.
 City Hall aides said that the complex trial could drag on for years, eventually costing the city close to $1 billion in the middle of a deep recession, though most of that is expected to be shouldered by the federal government.
 Raymond W. Kelly, the city's police commissioner, while publicly supporting the mayor's earlier position, has also expressed alarm over the impact of the trial on the Police Department, which has shrunk significantly since Mr. Bloomberg took office in 2002. Providing security for the court case, he has told city officials, would ''suck the oxygen'' from the department and leave it little flexibility to pursue new initiatives, according to people told of the conversations. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg said the city could ultimately handle hosting the trial, but said it would be better if it were held outside the city.
 ''Can we provide security? Yes. Could you provide security elsewhere? Yeah,'' he said. ''The suggestion of a military base is probably a reasonably good one.''
 Mr. Bloomberg added, with a hint of sarcasm, ''It would be great if the federal government could find a site that didn't cost a billion dollars, which using downtown will.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY COURTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LEGAL VENUE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (75%); AL-QAEDA (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); JIM WEBB (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



824 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Sarkozy Calls for Global Monetary System, Without Dollar as Top Reserve Currency

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
France wants to use its presidency of the Group of 20 next year to create a new international monetary system, President Nicolas Sarkozy said on Wednesday, adding that he believed the dollar should no longer be the primary reserve currency in the global economy. 
 In an expansive and lofty speech to the business and political leaders gathered here at the annual World Economic Forum, Mr. Sarkozy also called for a ''revolution'' in international regulation that would make labor, health and environmental standards as enforceable as trade rules. 
 Like Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, he backed a tax on financial market transactions. But Mr. Sarkozy, pursuing his call for a more moral form of financial capitalism, suggested the proceeds be used to combat climate change and create a World Environment Organization as powerful as the World Trade Organization.
 Mr. Sarkozy also took a hard line on bankers' bonuses, saying that lavish rewards should be denied to those who destroy wealth and jobs. 
 But before an audience that contained many Americans and many Chinese, his comments on currencies may have had the greatest resonance.
 ''We need a new Bretton Woods,'' Mr. Sarkozy told a packed auditorium. ''We can't have on the one hand a multipolar world and on the other a single reserve currency on a global level.''
 In a thinly veiled reference to China keeping its currency at an undervalued level, he added: ''We cannot on the one hand laud free markets and on the other tolerate monetary dumping.'' 
 During its 2011 presidency of the Group of 8 -- the leading Western industrial powers plus Russia -- and the wider G-20, which includes several important developing nations, France ''will put the reform of the international monetary system on the agenda,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. 
 Mr. Sarkozy also warned that the economic recovery currently under way remained vulnerable, urging central banks against withdrawing monetary stimulus measures too abruptly, saying it could prompt a collapse of the world economy. 
 ''We must take care to prevent too abrupt a tightening,'' he said.
 The powerbrokers at Davos were not Mr. Sarkozy's only audience. Six weeks ahead of regional elections in France, which are widely expected to be at least partly a judgment on his presidency, the president has tried to reverse a decline in his approval rating, currently at a record low. 
 ''It was an effective, quite populist speech,'' said Timothy Garton Ash, a professor at Oxford and political commentator who was in the audience. ''As always at Davos, national leaders are at least half talking to their own audience.'' 
 In 2008, when France held the presidency of the European Union for six months, Mr. Sarkozy proved a dynamic -- if controversial -- leader, first negotiating a ceasefire that halted the war in Georgia with Russia, and then bringing together European leaders to coordinate their response to the financial crisis. 
 As president of the G-20, he could repeat that performance, and even observers who find his style at times overbearing applaud his tenacity and energy.
 ''The dynamism of the chair,'' Mr. Garton Ash said, ''may bring some more substance to the G-20.'' 
 Mr. Sarkozy was the first French president to give the keynote address at the Davos forum, and it afforded him the chance to pit well-paid bankers against ordinary citizens. 
 He reiterated themes that have resounded in recent days, starting with President Obama, who proposed a tax on banks' liabilities, and then went further, suggesting that their size should be limited.
 The French president said he agreed with Mr. Obama, but stressed that all regulation concerning banks should be dealt with at an international level, coordinated by the G-20. 
 Calling the current crisis a ''crisis of globalization itself,'' he urged broad coordination of regulation and accounting rules. 
 ''If competition is distorted by accounting rules that remain very different from one country to another, and one continent to another, market actors will find it normal to return to precrisis habits,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''How, in a competitive world, can we demand of European banks three times more capital to cover their risks in their activities and not ask the same of American and Asian banks?'' 
 His aim was not, he stressed, to do away with capitalism itself but to tame financial markets. To this aim, a tax, he said, was now unavoidable. 
 ''We can't escape the debate about taxing speculation,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''Whether you want to rein in frenetic financial markets, finance development aid or associate poor countries to the fight against climate change, everything brings us back to the taxation of financial transactions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicolas Sarkozy, speaking at the World Economic Forum, said, ''We need a new Bretton Woods.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (93%); GORDON BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



825 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Nation Can't Afford the Politics of No

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama vowed Wednesday night not to give up on his ambitious legislative agenda, using his first State of the Union address to chastise Republicans for working in lock-step against him and to warn Democrats to stiffen their political spines.
 Mr. Obama appealed for an end to the ''tired old battles'' that have divided the country and stalled his efforts on Capitol Hill. He promised to focus intently on the issue of most immediate concern to the nation, jobs. And with his top priority, a health care overhaul, delayed in the wake of the recent Republican Senate victory in Massachusetts, he offered a pointed message to both parties.
 ''To Democrats, I would remind you that we still have the largest majority in decades, and the people expect us to solve some problems, not run for the hills,'' Mr. Obama said in his nationally televised speech. ''And if the Republican leadership is going to insist that 60 votes in the Senate are required to do any business at all in this town -- a supermajority -- then the responsibility to govern is now yours as well. Just saying no to everything may be good short-term politics, but it's not leadership.'' 
 The speech, Mr. Obama's third to a joint session of Congress, comes at a particularly rocky point in his presidency, with many Americans -- including some fellow Democrats -- complaining that the president has lost sight of the priorities of ordinary people. And Mr. Obama acknowledged their doubts, conceding that some of his political setbacks ''were deserved,'' a striking admission for any president.
 His tone was colloquial, even relaxed; at one point he joked that the bank bailout was ''about as popular as root canal.'' But at the same time Mr. Obama struck a defensive note, reminding the nation yet again that he inherited a mountain of problems and insisting that, one year after he took office, ''the worst of the storm has passed.''
 At a time when many Americans are concerned, even angry, about the economy and about the performance of government more generally, Mr. Obama sought to restore public confidence in his administration and to persuade Americans that he is directing his attention more fully to the economy. While he did not offer any sweeping new agenda or far-reaching legislative program, he put forth a handful of new initiatives, including plans to provide small businesses with tax breaks and better access to bank loans.
 After refusing to set a timetable for the repeal ''Don't Ask, Don't Tell,'' the military's policy barring openly gay men and lesbians from serving, he vowed to work with Congress this year to repeal it. He called for the reauthorization of No Child Left Behind, his predecessor's signature education law. In a nod to the growing political and economic pressure to begin reining in the budget deficit, he proposed a freeze on a portion of the domestic budget. 
 Mr. Obama campaigned on a promise to change the culture of Washington and to make government transparent. But on Wednesday night, he suggested that he believed he had not done enough, and spoke of a ''credibility gap'' that must be closed by curbing the outsized influence of lobbyists. ''We have to recognize that we face more than a deficit of dollars right now,'' he said. 
 Reprising a line he used in last year's address to Congress, he said, ''We face a deficit of trust -- deep and corrosive doubts about how Washington works that have been growing for years.''
 He called for new rules requiring lobbyists to disclose each contact they make on behalf of a client with Congress or with his administration. And, in a rare flash of open confrontation between the White House and the Supreme Court, Mr. Obama declared that a recent court ruling would ''open the floodgates for special interests,'' and perhaps foreign companies, to exert more influence in political campaigns. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., breaking with decorum at such events, shook his head and appeared to mouth the words, ''No, it's not true.''
 Republicans said they welcomed the president's partial freeze on domestic spending. But they warned against what they regard as the president's big government agenda. In delivering his party's response, Gov. Robert F. McDonnell of Virginia, a newly elected Republican, declared, ''The circumstances of our time demand that we reconsider and restore the proper, limited role of government at every level.''
 But rather than retreat from his ambitious agenda, Mr. Obama sought Wednesday to repackage it, by explaining how his top priorities -- the health measure, tough new regulations on banks, energy legislation -- fit into his broader initiative to put the economy on sounder footing for the long run. 
 On health care, Mr. Obama did not chart a specific path forward for Congress. Rather, he appealed to lawmakers to ''take another look at the plan we've proposed'' once temperatures cool after the Republican win in the Massachusetts Senate race. He added, ''Do not walk away from reform. Not now. Not when we are so close. Let's find a way to come together and finish the job for the American people.''
 Still, after a year of working to get health care passed, Mr. Obama said his No. 1 issue is now the economy and jobs. ''Jobs must be our No. 1 focus in 2010,'' Mr. Obama said, adding ''People are out of work. They are hurting. They need our help.''
 To that end, the president renewed his call for Congress to pass a jobs bill that would spur investment in green jobs and clean energy, though he did not offer specifics of what it would cost. He proposed investment tax cuts that would put more cash in the pockets of small business owners and a new program that would take $30 billion from the fund used to bail out troubled banks and automakers, and redirect it toward an initiative to encourage community banks to lend to small businesses.
 He set a goal of doubling exports over the next five years -- an increase that he said would support two million jobs. And, as he pledged to do earlier in the week, Mr. Obama also outlined a series of proposals intended to help the middle class, including new tax credits for child care and a cap on student loan payments for recent graduates. 
 And Mr. Obama offered a very public show of confidence in one of the architects of his economic plan: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, whose close identification with Wall Street has made him a focus of some of the populist anger directed at the White House. When Mr. Obama strode into the chamber of the House of Representatives to deliver the address, he stopped to face Mr. Geithner, who had just spent the day getting grilled on Capitol Hill and put both hands encouragingly on the secretary's shoulders.
 Strikingly, for a president who is prosecuting two wars and trying to protect the country against the threat of a terrorist attack, Mr. Obama spent only nine minutes in an address that lasted more than an hour on foreign policy. He renewed one of the most popular promises of his campaign for election, to bring the troops home for Iraq, saying ''Make no mistake -- this war is ending, and all of our troops are coming home.'' 
 But he devoted only one paragraph to a far less popular decision, escalating the troop levels in Afghanistan. ''There will be difficult days ahead,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But I am confident we will succeed.''
 As have presidents before him, Mr. Obama grappled with how to describe the state of the union. In the end, he settled on the formulation that many of his predecessors have used, with a twist: ''Despite our hardships, our union is strong.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama greeting lawmakers on Wednesday as he entered the House chamber.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
At several points in his address, President Obama drew a standing ovation on Wednesday from members of Congress -- Republicans as well as Democrats -- and guests in the House chamber.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
2010 Obama
2009 Obama
 2001-8 Bush avg.(A19) CHARTS: The Words They Used: The number of times President Obama used selected words in his first State of the Union addresses.*(A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BAILOUTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); BANK FAILURES (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



826 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Toyota's Woes in America Raise Concern in Japan

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
As Toyota's problems mounted in North America with the announcement of a halt to sales and manufacturing of the bulk of its cars, commentators in Japan fretted Wednesday that the automaker's problems could seriously hurt the reputation of the rest of Japan's manufacturing sector.
 ''Toyota's reputation for safety is in tatters, and it is inevitable that its image among consumers will suffer,'' the Sankei Shimbun daily said. 
 The Japanese feel a certain sense of pride that, despite the nation's long economic slump, a handful of prominent exporters like Toyota dominate overseas. Toyota has led the way in gas-electric hybrid vehicles and other environmental technology.
 ''The discrediting of Toyota could even destroy the world's trust in Japanese manufacturing, which relies on its reputation for high quality,'' the Tokyo Shimbun daily warned.
 Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. announced Tuesday that it would stop selling and building models that were already the subject of a recall over a problem with accelerator pedals. 
 The eight models, including the popular Camry and Corolla sedans, accounted for more than a million sales in 2009, 57 percent of Toyota's American total for the year.
 Toyota took similar steps in Canada. Officials said that the company was considering what measures to take in Europe but that it had not made any concrete plans.
 Transportation Department officials in the United States on Wednesday said that they were ones who advised the automaker to act quickly to stop production of the vehicles. 
 ''The reason Toyota decided to do the recall and to stop manufacturing is that we asked them to,'' Transportation Secretary Raymond LaHood said. In an interview with WGN radio in Chicago, Mr. Hood went on, ''We were the ones that really met with Toyota, our department, our safety folks, and told them, 'you've got to do the recall.'' They decided to stop the manufacturing.''
 Mr. LaHood said the department took notice of the company's problems after an accident in California last year in which three people were killed. Since then, he said the department had discovered other safety issues with the company's vehicles, and has met with engineers from Japan.
 ''We told them, 'we're going to call you out on this.' They stepped up and they did the right thing, and we applaud them for doing this,'' he said. Mr. LaHood said the department would help the company find a solution. ''We're going to get to the best safety that's possible. They want to manufacture cars that are the safest for people to drive.''
 Mr. LaHood said Toyota had figured out solutions to the problem on some of its vehicles. He recommended that owners immediately take their vehicles to dealers, and said the company would either fix them or find a way to provide other transportation while it found a solution.
 Analysts in Japan have raised concerns for some time that Toyota's rapid growth in recent years was overstretching the company. Toyota's president, Akio Toyoda, has himself berated the company for excessive confidence, which he said had set the company up for a painful fall in the global economic crisis. He said last year that Toyota was ''grasping for salvation.''
 ''We have had fears for quite a while now that Toyota lacked the human resources and production capacity for such rapid expansion. By chasing numbers, they were becoming seriously outstretched,'' said Masahiro Fukuda, manager of research at Fourin, a global automotive research company based in Nagoya, Japan. ''Many of us weren't surprised over the big recalls; we were more surprised that it took Toyota so long.''
 Other analysts faulted Toyota's zealous pursuit of efficiency and cost-cutting. ''The same parts were used here, there and everywhere, on major models,'' said Koji Endo, managing director at Japan Advanced Research, a Tokyo-based research organization. ''That's very efficient, but very risky. If the part turns out to be faulty, you suddenly have a problem on your hands involving millions of cars.''
 Now, halting its factories could have a ''tremendous impact'' on Toyota's bottom line, especially if the interruption drags on, Mr. Endo said. ''Toyota will have to change the design of the gas pedal, get relevant approvals, set up production, then exchange parts for millions of cars on the road, cars sitting at dealerships and cars they were assembling at their factories,'' he said. 
 Toyota's woes are throwing the carmaker's recovery into flux, analysts say. Toyota this week said it expected group sales to grow 6 percent from the previous year to 8.27 million. The company reports third-quarter results on Feb. 4.
 Some in Japan questioned whether Toyota was taking too drastic a step in suspending production.
 ''Toyota says it has halted sales and production to show it will be thorough in its response, but the move carries the risk of further heightening consumer fears,'' the Mainichi Shimbun newspaper said. ''Even a quick restart of sales might not be enough to ward off a serious shift away from Toyota.''
 But Mr. Fukuda said he saw Toyota's decision to suspend sales as a typical Toyota move. ''At a Toyota factory line, when something goes wrong, they stop the whole line.'' he said. ''Now Toyota is doing the same thing, at the company level. That's the Toyota way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SEDANS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



827 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FEMALE FACTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Women in Wall Street's Top Ranks

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
 When Sallie Krawcheck was hired six months ago as president of global wealth and investment management at Bank of America, she was besieged with e-mail messages from current and former Wall Street women celebrating her return to the fray.
 Ms. Krawcheck had been forced out as head of a comparable unit at Citigroup in August 2008, a highly publicized departure. Hers has been the only comeback among the three highest-ranking Wall Street women removed during the financial crisis. 
 ''I don't think I set foot in a restaurant where some woman did not come up to me and thank me for getting knocked around and going back in,'' Ms. Krawcheck, 45, recalled in an interview at Bank of America's corporate office in New York. ''It was unexpected and quite fantastic.''
 The outpouring over Ms. Krawcheck's return reflects deep anxiety among women in the financial industry that their career paths are narrowing even as business picks up again.
 Women have always been drawn to finance in smaller numbers than men. But after nearly two decades of increased hiring and promotion of women on Wall Street, their ranks appear to be shrinking again.
 The reasons are varied and unclear. But some finance executives say that as the work force has shrunk over all in finance, there was bound to be a noticeable impact on women because their numbers were smaller to begin with. They also cite the big banks' increasing reliance on trading, a part of the business that has been especially difficult for women to penetrate.
 ''The last 15 years before the financial meltdown was a period of gains for women,'' said Linda Friedman, a partner at Stowell & Friedman, a Chicago law firm that represents plaintiffs in discrimination lawsuits. But, she added, ''in the down economic times, the greatest casualties have been women.''
 Neither of the other two top-ranking Wall Street women -- Zoe Cruz, the former co-president at Morgan Stanley, and Erin Callan, the former chief financial officer at Lehman Brothers -- has resurfaced in a permanent position at a major firm. 
 Ms. Cruz declined to comment for this article, although she plans to start her own hedge fund, according to a person close to her. Ms. Callan, through her lawyer, Steve Eckhaus, also declined to comment.
 On Jan. 11, Citigroup dismissed Teresa A. Dial as head of its North American consumer banking unit. 
 Even though women are gaining ground on men enrolled in business school -- they constituted 39.3 percent of full-time students in American business schools in 2009, compared with 34.7 percent five years earlier, according to the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools -- the percentage of those women headed for finance or accounting jobs is dropping.
 Of those female graduates, 21.1 percent were pursuing finance or accounting in 2009, down 6.6 percentage points from 2005, according to the Graduate Management Admission Council, a nonprofit group of business schools. The rate also dropped for men, but less drastically -- falling 4.7 percentage points this year to 25.4 percent.
 In the United States, women also appear to be leaving finance and insurance faster than men. The number of women in those sectors declined 4.7 percent from the end of 2006 to the end of 2008, while the number of men fell 3.3 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 Women rose on Wall Street in the boom years, when hiring was brisk and a series of lawsuits challenged the domination of men in the industry. Ms. Friedman recalled the class-action lawsuit against Merrill Lynch in 1996, when just six women were in charge at Merrill's 140 branches -- 4.3 percent of the total. 
 The share of women there rose as high as 25 percent in the years after the suit was settled in 1998, Ms. Friedman said. Selena Morris, a Merrill spokeswoman, said the company had more women running branches today than in 2000.
 Women have maintained a strong presence in some areas in finance, including wealth management. Among the highest ranking in that specialty is Mary Erdoes, who heads that unit at JPMorgan Chase.
 ''They have moved up because they populate that business,'' building client relationships well, Ms. Krawcheck said.
 And a growing number of women run investment portfolios at college and prep-school endowments. The Harvard University endowment, the largest in the United States, is managed by Jane Mendillo. 
 But in the heart of Wall Street, the aggressive environment on the trading floor is often cited as a reason that women are rare at the top. Others cite the dearth of women to aid in career networking.
 Whatever the reason, ascending the ladder is much harder for women, said Bruce Greenwald, a professor of finance and strategy at Columbia University Business School.
 ''It is more difficult for women to come back because the environment in financial institutions is generally more hostile to women,'' he said. ''This culture has developed over a very long period of time and it has been exacerbated as the firms' emphasis has shifted from traditional investment banking to sales and trading, which is an even more macho culture.''
 Several industry experts point out that turnover at the top has been high for both men and women.
 One factor in Ms. Krawcheck's comeback was the support she received from those who know her, including Anne Finucane, Bank of America's global strategy and marketing officer. Ms. Finucane did not respond to a request for comment. 
 Ms. Krawcheck said that during her year off, she had struggled to decide, as she put it, ''what I want to be when I grow up.'' She looked into starting her own business or going to a smaller firm. But the attraction of returning to a large bank proved irresistible.
 ''When I got the call,'' she said, ''it took me exactly two minutes to make up my mind.''
 Correction: January 29, 2010
 An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the global strategy and marketing officer at Bank of America. It is Anne Finucane, not Ann.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (83%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); RANKINGS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); LITIGATION (68%); LAWYERS (68%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ZOE CRUZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



828 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: In Speech, Little Time Spent on National Security

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Mark Mazzetti and Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON--President Obama spent exactly nine minutes on national security issues in the first State of the Union speech of his presidency, promising Americans that he would fight terrorism and warning Iran that its leaders will face ''growing consequences'' if they continue to ignore international calls to rein in their nuclear ambitions. 
 In a speech dominated by domestic issues -- namely the economy, healthcare and jobs -- Mr. Obama spared little time for the subject of America's relations with the world. He made no mention at all of stalled Middle East peace proposals, nor did he mention the brewing turmoil between the United States and its biggest global economic rival, China over internet freedom. 
 In fact, the only mention he made of China was when he cast Beijing in the role of economic threat to the United States. For instance, Mr. Obama said there was no reason why Europe and China should have faster trains than the United States. He said that China isn't waiting to revamp its economy (nor India or Germany).
 ''These nations aren't playing for second place,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They are making serious investments in clean energy because they want those jobs.'' He pledged to double American exports over the next five years, through a National Export Initiative, but offered few details.
 The President made glancing references to the two wars which he inherited--and in both cases, promised that American troops will soon come home. ''We will have all of our combat troops out of Iraq by the end of this August,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Make no mistake: this war is ending, and all of our troops are coming home.''
 Mr. Obama issued no challenges to any foreign leaders, continuing his break from his predecessor, President Bush, who often used State of the Union speeches to delineate the differences between America and its international foes. Rather, Mr. Obama struck a more conciliatory tone on national security.
 He seemed to offer an olive branch to Republican critics at home who have accused him of putting civil liberties ahead of American security.
 ''Sadly, some of the unity we felt after 9/11 has dissipated,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We can argue all we want about who's to blame for this, but I am not interested in re-litigating the past. I know that all of us love this country.''
 He urged Americans to ''put aside the schoolyard taunts about who is tough. Let's reject the false choice between protecting our people and upholding our values.''
 In recent weeks, Republicans have stepped up attacks about the administration's decision to try some terror suspects in civilian courts, and about the intelligence breakdowns preceding the failed airline bombing on Christmas Day.
 On Wednesday, the President defended his counterterrorism record, saying that ''hundreds'' of militants from al Qaeda and affiliated groups who had been killed or captured over the past year--''far more than in 2008.''
 The Obama administration has accelerated the C.I.A.'s campaign of drone attacks inside Pakistan, which top administration officials credit with killing off several top Qaeda planners, including Saleh al-Somali, who was killed in September.
 White House and intelligence officials argue that al Qaeda's ranks inside Pakistan have been depleted, one reason that the terror group's affiliate in Yemen has in recent months taken a more active role in striking against the west. American officials believe that Umar Farouk Abdulmuttalab, the Nigerian man arrested after the failed Christmas Day bombing, was working with operatives from Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the affiliate group. 
 The United States has dispatched special operations troops to Yemen, and has given Yemeni officials intelligence information in recent weeks that has led to several strikes against militants in the country. On Wednesday, one senior administration official estimated that 20 percent of the 300 to 400 al Qaeda operatives in Yemen have been killed over the last several months.
 On Iran, where the administration would like to get an economics sanctions package through the Security Council but is facing the usual objections from China in particular, Mr. Obama, again, had little to say. He opted simply to call Iran's Islamist regime ''more isolated.'' He warned: ''As Iran's leaders continue to ignore their obligations, there should be no doubt: they too, will face growing consequences. That is a promise.''
 David Rothkopf, a former Clinton administration official and foreign policy expert, said Wednesday night that he ''can't recall a state of the union that devoted less time or attention to foreign policy issues than this one.''
 Mr. Rothkopf, author of a book about the National Security Council, said that Mr. Obama has gauged that Americans right now are ''wounded and looking inward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (65%); LITIGATION (60%); INTERNET & WWW (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (71%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



829 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 28, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Drawing Fire, Geithner Backs Rescue of A.I.G.

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, defended the bailout of the American International Group again on Wednesday to a group of representatives who would not buy his explanations. 
 The questioning was heated and sometimes took on the air of a cross-examination as Mr. Geithner said that a collapse of A.I.G. would have been catastrophic and would have put the United States at risk of a Great Depression.
 His critics on the House Oversight Committee, most of them Republicans but some Democrats, made clear that they had heard this many times before and that they wanted something else. In fact, Mr. Geithner has appeared on Capitol Hill 22 times since becoming Treasury secretary a year ago, often to answer questions about A.I.G.
 ''We're getting a lame story,'' John L. Mica, Republican of Florida, complained. ''I don't know why we shouldn't request your resignation.'' 
 Mr. Geithner responded calmly that he thought he had served the country ''as carefully as I can'' and would continue to do so as long as the president desired. But President Obama's top economic officials have been dogged by complaints that they have been too quick to help the banking industry and not responsive enough to the plight of ordinary Americans who are suffering from high unemployment and a housing collapse.
 The hearing on Wednesday was convened after the committee's senior Republican member, Darrell Issa of California, obtained e-mail messages that suggested the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had prevented A.I.G. from revealing certain facts about the bailout in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 That made the possibility of a cover-up the latest flash point in the A.I.G. bailout drama. Previous points of contention have been the payment of sizable executive bonuses, and the fact that when the New York Fed first lent $85 billion to A.I.G., about $30 billion of it ultimately went to a group of big American and foreign banks.
 Mr. Geithner, who was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York when the bailout began in September 2008, has been battered by Congressional panels over each issue, but has not gone off message. In a nutshell, he has maintained that the bailout was a tragic necessity, and that Congress should legislate financial reforms to prevent another one. 
 With respect to the e-mail messages about S.E.C. disclosure, at least, Mr. Geithner said he was the wrong person to consult. He was named President-elect Obama's Treasury secretary in late November 2008, and had recused himself by the time those messages were sent. 
 In one message, a lawyer for the New York Fed told A.I.G. ''there should be no discussion'' of certain details of the bailout in a regulatory filing.
 Panelists flashed copies of various e-mail messages on a screen and tried to catch the Treasury secretary in inconsistencies. Marcy Kaptur, a Democrat of Ohio, asked Mr. Geithner to confirm that he had recused himself, then asked for a copy of his recusal letter. 
 Mr. Geithner said he did not have one. Instead, he said, he had simply made sure everyone at the New York Fed knew that he had withdrawn from day-to-day management decisions. 
 ''This was very important to do,'' he started, but Ms. Kaptur cut him off.
 ''A lot of people think the president of the New York Fed works for the government, but in fact he works for the banks on the board that elected you,'' she said.
 ''That is not true,'' Mr. Geithner argued, and tried to explain what he called the Fed's unique system of governance. But Ms. Kaptur cut him off again, and asked why so many former employees of Goldman Sachs turned up at strategic moments of the bailout. 
 ''Who is your chief of staff?'' she demanded.
 ''Mark Patterson,'' Mr. Geithner responded. 
 ''Who did he work for before?'' she asked. 
 ''The president's transition team,'' said Mr. Geithner, eliciting laughter because virtually everyone in the room seemed to know that Mr. Patterson's primary employer before he joined the government was Goldman Sachs. 
 The pattern was repeated over the course of Mr. Geithner's testimony. 
 Notably, Mr. Geithner was cited for making more telephone calls to Dan Jester, a Treasury adviser and former Goldman Sachs employee, in the fall of 2008 than to anyone other than the former Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., also a former Goldman executive, and the Fed chairman. Mr. Geithner tried to drive home his message that Congress urgently needed to create a position to regulate systemically risky institutions. 
 Even members of the panel who seemed to agree with him said they were more concerned about other things on Wednesday. 
 ''You asked exactly the right question,'' Mr. Geithner said after John J. Duncan Jr., Republican of Tennessee, said it had appeared to him that the Federal Reserve was ''sowing the seeds of another crisis, another bubble-burst cycle,'' and wondered whether executive bonuses should be reined in.
 Mr. Geithner said that in any financial crisis, policy makers are faced with a ''tragic choice'' between doing nothing and allowing innocent people to be hurt, or bailing out financial institutions. 
 ''The moral, fair and just choice is to protect the innocent,'' he said, clearly pleased that Mr. Duncan had asked the question. ''But by definition, that sets the stage and sows the seeds of a future crisis.'' He referred several times to this ''tragic choice,'' and said A.I.G. was a perfect example of it. 
 ''That was a good answer, but what about the bonuses?'' Mr. Duncan asked. 
 Mr. Geithner's testimony received staunch support from his immediate predecessor, Mr. Paulson, who had also been on Capitol Hill many times to answer questions about the bailout. 
 Mr. Paulson told the Oversight Committee that he had played no role in the decisions that had prompted the hearing -- the payment of roughly $30 billion to A.I.G.'s trading partners, and the e-mail messages that seemed to suggest that the New York Fed had wanted to omit some of those details from public documents.
 But Mr. Paulson said repeatedly that he approved of the bailout over all and that the New York Fed had had no other choice. 
 Thomas C. Baxter Jr., the New York Fed's general counsel, offered explanations for its involvement in editing A.I.G.'s public disclosures about the bailout. He said that descriptions about the flow of bailout money to A.I.G.'s trading partners were not needed because the company's regulatory filings offered more precise information. 
 Mr. Baxter also disputed reports that the New York Fed had pressed A.I.G. not to reveal the names of its trading partners. In fact, he said, A.I.G. wanted to keep the information confidential, for fear that it would lose business if customers were named. ''This would have had the effect of harming the taxpayers' investment in A.I.G.,'' Mr. Baxter said. 
 The banks were identified a few months later, after the most troublesome derivatives trades had been canceled. Even then, few of the securities bought by the Fed were identified. 
 Mr. Baxter said that if Wall Street traders knew exactly what the Fed had bought, they would find ways to trade on that information. 
 Mr. Issa said in his opening statement that he would like to make public every soured security bought by the New York Fed. 
 At the end of the day, Mr. Issa released that document, known as Schedule A, and said it showed little reason to keep the information private until 2018, as the New York Fed had proposed. 
 A lot of the assets will mature long before then, he said later. ''Most will have been liquidated in the next three to four years.''
 Others who testified were Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program; Stephen Friedman, the former chairman of the New York Fed; and Elias F. Habayeb, the former chief financial officer of the financial products unit of A.I.G.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner, center, greeted the former Treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. before testifying on Wednesday. At the hearing, Mr. Geithner said the bailout involved a ''tragic choice.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (87%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); LITIGATION (64%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); JOHN L MICA (58%); DARRELL E ISSA (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010



830 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1940 words

HEADLINE: After the Putti, the Baby Calamari

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
WHO doesn't have childhood memories of field trips to the museum? After a morning of being guided through the paintings and sculptures of the great masters, everyone would head for the basement cafeteria, where you would stand in line, plastic trays in hand, waiting to be treated to a lunch of rubbery chicken and gooey tapioca pudding. Those days are gone, or at least numbered. Increasingly museums are moving away from the middle-school approach to feeding visitors, with its emphasis on a lowest-common-denominator menu, in favor of stylish restaurants that offer fine dining to go with the fine art. 
 Last month sleek new restaurants with sophisticated menus opened in the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and the Museum of Arts and Design. The Whitney Museum of American Art has just announced plans to open a new cafe during the second half of this year, to be run by the celebrated restaurateur Danny Meyer, and at least two other smaller art museums in Manhattan are in negotiations to install restaurants or cafes.
 The trend, though strong locally, is by no means confined to New York City. In recent years, Wolfgang Puck has partnered in museum restaurants in Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Minneapolis and Washington, and other high-end dining rooms have opened recently in museums in cities including Toronto and Atlanta. 
 ''More and more over the past five years that is what museums, libraries and even botanical gardens have been demanding,'' said Dick Cattani, the chief executive officer of Restaurant Associates, which operates both the Wright, the new restaurant at the Guggenheim, and a cafe that opened in May off the American wing at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''Our company has been doing this since the 1960s, and the tendency is definitely away from the quick serve of the old days and toward fine dining.''
 A variety of factors seems to be behind the shift. One is simple economics: with the Great Recession now in its second year and donations from corporations and wealthy board members becoming harder to obtain, museums, especially those that committed to ambitious expansion plans before the downturn, are eager to tap into new sources of income. 
 ''We built a new museum, just to open during the crisis,'' said Holly Hotchner, director of the Museum of Arts and Design, which moved into the renovated 2 Columbus Circle in the fall of 2008. ''When we conceived of doubling our budget, earned income became really important, and that was even before the recession. We had to find another $5 million, and our donors are stretched to give what they give. So creative revenue sources, new ways to find income, have become very important.''
 But museum officials also talk about ''enhancing the museum experience'' so as not to lose ground to other forms of entertainment. Visitors are both more discerning and demanding than they used to be, and many want, or even expect, a memorable meal to round off their day. And they don't want to have to leave the building to find it. 
 ''Given that people spend so much time here, having a dining experience comparable to the facility itself, whether formal or more casual, was important to us,'' said James Gara, the chief operating officer of the Museum of Modern Art, which has offered three eating establishments in its building since 2004, when it completed its renovation. ''To have just a concessionaire wasn't up to the standards of what we were aiming for. We wanted to offer our membership and visitors something on a level with the rest of the museum.'' 
 For restaurateurs the benefits are even more obvious. For one thing, the typical contract to operate a restaurant in a museum is accompanied by exclusive catering rights at museum events. That can be quite lucrative in its own right and also introduces the food provider to trustees, donors and other wealthy people who might want to use the caterer's services at parties and receptions. 
 Then there is the lure of what amounts to a very large captive audience: MoMA, for example, attracts more than 2.7 million visitors each year. Then there is the prestige factor that comes with being associated with a major arts institution. 
 ''A museum is an exciting facility, with high standards and benchmarks, and it gives a company a very high profile and visibility,'' said Mr. Cattani, whose company operates all the food establishments at the Met, including its afternoon tea. ''If you can succeed in that environment, that offers you entree to other opportunities. And museums are here to stay, so contracts are typically long term, and that brings some stability in your business.''
 But installing and running a restaurant in a museum requires a balancing act on both sides. For starters there are logistical questions, like where to put a kitchen so that visitors can't smell cooking odors and so that the artwork is in no way affected.
 ''This was a totally foreign area for me, and there were all these things that no one else here had any background in,'' said Ms. Hotchner of the Museum of Arts and Design, whose new restaurant, Robert, is operated by the restaurateur Michael Weinstein's Ark group. ''I knew nothing about restaurant law. And dealing with a grease trap from the ninth floor to the basement?'' 
 Beyond that, there are the larger aesthetic issues central to a museum's mission and image. For the restaurant operator the principal challenge is to blend in and not overwhelm a museum's distinctive look and style with a design that clashes or contradicts. 
 ''We're in a Breuer building that is a great piece of architecture, so we have to have to respect the quality and distinctiveness of that,'' said Adam Weinberg, director of the Whitney, where the new cafe is now being designed. ''Whatever we do can't fight against that, but it can't totally acquiesce to it either, because we're not looking for a period piece. It's a fine balance between being deferential, but not slavish.''
 The same approach applies to the menu. The emphasis has to be on quality and variety, preferably at a reasonable price, but the cuisine cannot be so ambitious or obscure that it distracts from the artwork that visitors have come to see.
 ''We don't want you to be challenged by the food, because that's not complementary to the experience,'' said Richard Coraine, managing partner in Mr. Meyer's Union Square Hospitality Group. ''Your brain should be engaged with the art. We want you to take a rest, to take care of you, so that you can then get back to looking at amazing art.'' 
 Several of the new restaurants acknowledge their location by bringing in art that diners can contemplate from their tables: Robert has a Jennifer Steinkamp video installation called ''Orbit,'' while the Wright commissioned a Liam Gillick expandable wall sculpture called ''The Horizon.'' The second-floor cafe at MoMA went a step further and, until this week, had Jonathan Horowitz's witty pop art piece ''Coke and/or Pepsi Machine'' near the bar, where visitors were left to ponder whether it was a work of art or just a bizarre one-of-a-kind vending machine. (The museum rotates works in the cafe.)
 For artists hoping to get attention for their work, that kind of exposure can be a boon. The painter and printmaker Santiago Cucullu, 40, said he was both pleased and amused when a series of 12 of his prints, ''Architectonic vs. H.R.,'' originally shown at MoMA in 2007 as part of an exhibition of Latin American Art, ended up on the walls of the second-floor cafe. 
 ''I like that it is there, I feel honored to be in such esteemed company, and I get a kick out of it,'' Mr. Cucullu, who was born in Argentina and now lives in Milwaukee, said in a telephone interview. ''Every time my family or friends go to New York, they tell me, 'Oh, I saw it.' I notice that most people don't look at it, but that doesn't bother me. Yeah, the work recedes. But it seeps in around the edges.''
 So how do the museum restaurants stack up? Five years after it opened, the Modern, on the ground floor at MoMA with a view of the sculpture garden, clearly remains in the lead, both in terms of cuisine and cost, which can be considerable. 
 The restaurant, which has separate bar and dining room menus and can also be entered from the street, has earned one star from Michelin and two (for the dining room) and three (for the bar) from The New York Times. But with prix fixe offerings in the main room that run $88 at dinner and $48 at lunch for two dishes and dessert, it is obviously not meant for the hurried visitor looking for a casual meal. 
 A far less costly alternative is the cafe on the second floor, which specializes in pasta, salumi, panini and other Italian dishes that are ordered deli-style and served at large communal tables. Another cafe, on the fifth floor, emphasizes cold dishes, salads and desserts; is smaller and less noisy; and offers a view of the city and, from some tables, the museum's sculpture garden. Lunch for two there, drawn from a tasting menu that offered two salads and a dessert for $27, came to $98 with wine and coffee add ons.
 Some of the newer restaurants, on the other hand, are still working out kinks. Arriving at Robert, for example, my party discovered that there was no record of a reservation made the day before. Perhaps for that reason we ended up in a distant corner, with Ms. Steinkamp's rather distracting video installation dominating our line of sight instead of the New York skyline, one of the restaurant's big selling points. Dinner, with a glass of wine, came to $72 a person.
 But the lounge at the entrance of the restaurant, on the ninth floor of the Columbus Circle building and open until 2 a.m., offers a spectacular view north to Central Park, Broadway and the West Side, assuming your eyes are not drawn instead to the neon pink acrylic-and-metal rectangles hanging from the ceiling. It seems an ideal place to meet someone for drinks: the offerings are ample, prices are reasonable, and the Philip Michael Wolfson furniture is both stylish and comfortable.
 At the Wright -- named for Frank Lloyd Wright, who designed the Guggenheim -- and open daily for lunch and for dinner Thursday through Saturday, the atmosphere is more sedate and the aesthetic more restrained. Lunch for two (a winter squash risotto, striped bass with baby calamari in sweet paprika sauce, a quartino of wine and dessert) ran $115, and was light enough that it didn't sap the desire to go back and look at more art.
 The restaurant, though small with only 58 seats, is also impressive visually. The room itself, which can also be entered from the street, is largely white, with lots of sweeping curves that arch to the ceiling and a sinuous communal table in the middle, both of which manage to evoke the circling ramp and spare aesthetic of the museum building without mimicking them. 
 ''Our old cafe was a get-your-own-tray cafeteria with photos of artists and a kind of rinky-dink buffet,'' said Maria Celi, the Guggenheim's director of visitor services and retail operations. ''Some of the old-timers may miss those photographs, but people are more sophisticated now about food, and that is something we had to recognize that if we are going to grow the repeat visits we want.'' 
 Snack Time
 Here is information about the New York museum restaurants mentioned: 
 ROBERT, at the Museum of Arts and Design, 2 Columbus Circle; (212) 299-7730, madmuseum.org. 
 THE MODERN; CAFE 2; TERRACE 5, at the Museum of Modern Art; (212) 333-1220, moma.org. 
 THE WRIGHT, at the Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street; (212) 427-5690, www.thewrightrestaurant.com. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 29 about new restaurants in art museums referred incompletely to the title of an expandable wall sculpture by Liam Gillick in the Wright, a new restaurant at the Guggenheim Museum. While the work, created last year, has been informally referred to as ''The Horizon,'' its full title is ''The horizon produced by a factory once it had stopped producing views.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C21)
Robert, left and above, the new restaurant at the Museum of Arts and Design at 2 Columbus Circle. On the ninth floor, Robert commands excellent views of the New York skyline. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Cafe 2 at the Museum of Modern Art, where three places to eat opened in 2005, following the museum's renovation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); RESTAURANTS (91%); PAINTING (90%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (70%); CORPORATE GIVING (68%); BUDGETS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG PUCK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



831 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'TIME STANDS STILL'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: What's Really Fair in Love and War?

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Sarah Goodwin, the complicated woman at the heart of ''Time Stands Still,'' seems to thrive on conflict, at least professionally. A photojournalist who covers wars and global strife, she keeps chaos at arm's length by trapping it in the camera lens, exerting a fierce control over moments of horror by fixing them in time. 
 But the flux of Sarah's own life cannot be manipulated so easily, as she learns with growing sorrow in this thoughtful drama by Donald Margulies that stars Laura Linney and Brian d'Arcy James, giving performances of complementary sensitivity and richness. Conflicting needs cannot be held at a cool distance; the wounds of the past cannot be filed away like old negatives; the change that experience brings is not reversible. 
 ''Time Stands Still,'' which opened Thursday night at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater in a flawless Manhattan Theater Club production directed by Daniel Sullivan, is handily Mr. Margulies's finest play since the Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Dinner With Friends.'' Like that keenly observed drama about the growing pains of adulthood, the new play explores the relationship between two couples at a crucial juncture in their lives, when the desire to move forward clashes with the instinct to stay comfortably -- or even uncomfortably -- in place. 
 As the play opens, the challenges facing Sarah and her partner, James Dodd (Ms. Linney and Mr. d'Arcy James), seem clear enough. James has just brought Sarah home from a hospital in Germany, where she was recuperating from severe injuries suffered while she was covering the war in Iraq. Antsy and unused to the burdens of repose, Sarah rebuffs James's constant efforts to cushion her from the bumps and bruises of recovery. His anxiety is amplified by a lingering sense of guilt: a reporter himself, he had suffered a breakdown in Iraq and returned to the United States shortly before Sarah's accident, which has left her with a bum leg and scarred face. 
 Just how much has changed since Sarah was on assignment is brought home when they receive a visit from their good friend Richard Ehrlich (Eric Bogosian), Sarah's former flame and mentor from many years before who is the photo editor at a newsmagazine. Richard has a new, much younger girlfriend in tow, Mandy (Alicia Silverstone), whose introduction of a pair of tacky silver balloons into James and Sarah's funky loft in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, telegraphs just how markedly her sensibility differs from theirs. 
 Sarah accepts this absurd gift with devastating cool, as she greets all Mandy's efforts to ingratiate herself. These include Mandy's announcement that she has been praying for Sarah's quick recovery. ''It's weird 'cause it's not like I believe in God or anything,'' Mandy adds, chirping away obliviously. 
 Ms. Silverstone, whose Broadway debut came in the dreary stage adaptation of ''The Graduate,'' gets a happy chance at redemption in a tricky role to which she brings warmth, actorly intelligence and delicate humor. She achieves the lovely feat of allowing us to laugh at Mandy's shallowness even as we are charmed by her good-heartedness. 
 When Mandy disappears into the bathroom, Sarah and James blandly profess to find her ''adorable'' and ''darling,'' in tones that make this anodyne praise sound damning. Richard has been running conversational interference in an attempt to minimize Mandy's missteps, a process that the terrific Mr. Bogosian illustrates in precise comic detail, as Richard's romantic ardor wars with intellectual mortification. 
 Eventually Richard becomes righteous, insisting that the relationship isn't just a matter of a middle-aged guy chasing younger women. Sarah's withering reply: ''There's young, and there's embryonic.'' 
 Mr. Margulies is gifted at creating complex characters through wholly natural interaction, allowing the emotional layers, the long histories, the hidden kernels of conflict to emerge organically. His dialogue throughout ''Time Stands Still'' crackles with bright wit and intelligence, but it is almost always an expression of the characters' personalities, not a function of the author's need to dazzle and entertain. (A few lines feel false or glib, as when Sarah says, ''War was my parents' house all over again, only on a different scale.'') 
 He also folds into the writing a few trenchant debates about the moral ambiguities of journalists' role in covering atrocities. In the play's premiere production, at the Geffen Playhouse in Los Angeles last year, these sometimes felt tacked on, but Mr. Sullivan, who also staged that version, and his largely new cast have mostly smoothed out any lumps in the writing. The heart of ''Time Stands Still'' resides in the gently evolving relationship between Sarah and James, which develops troubling new ripples in each scene.
 Ms. Linney, an actress of unusual economy and seemingly innate grace, does not shy from depicting the thorny aspects of Sarah's personality: her impatience with views opposing her own, the leftover anger from witnessing her parents' unhappy marriage, the emotional reserve and the sense of detachment bred in her by her work. But she also reveals the reserves of tender feeling beneath the ample defenses. We sense Sarah's growing fear that her need to live life on her own terms cannot be reconciled with the path James sees for their future. Ms. Linney's tough but gently shaded performance honors the character's seeming contradictions. 
 Mr. d'Arcy James, a remarkably versatile actor equally at home in splashy musicals like ''Shrek'' and the chiaroscuro delicacies of Conor McPherson's ''Port Authority,'' has never been better than he is here. James's anguish and guilt over his failure to protect Sarah are conveyed with touching warmth. The darker feelings that reside just below his congenial surface -- envy of Sarah's career success, rage at a betrayal he at first chooses to ignore -- eventually burst forth, in scenes to which Mr. d'Arcy James brings fierce, raw anger that sets the stage crackling with currents of powerful feeling. 
 The loving but uneasy relationship between Sarah and James is contrasted with the effortless companionship of Richard and Mandy, drawn with a lighter but not less convincing sense of truth by Mr. Bogosian and Ms. Silverstone. Although ''Time Stands Still'' is deceptively modest, even laid back in its structure and sensibility, consisting of a handful of conversations among just four characters, the range of feeling it explores is wide and deep.
 Sarah and James have spent much of their lives bearing witness to horrific violence, but Mr. Margulies's quietly powerful drama illustrates just how much pain and trauma are involved in the everyday business of two people creating a life together, one that accommodates the mistakes of the past, the reality of the present and the changes that the future may bring.
 TIME STANDS STILL
 By Donald Margulies; directed by Daniel Sullivan; sets by John Lee Beatty; costumes by Rita Ryack; lighting by Peter Kaczorowski; sound by Darron L West; music by Peter Golub; fight director, Thomas Schall. Presented by the Manhattan Theater Club, Lynne Meadow, artistic director; Barry Grove, executive producer; by special arrangement with Nelle Nugent/Wendy Federman. At the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan; (212) 239-6200. Through March 14. Running time: 1 hour 55 minutes.
 WITH: Eric Bogosian (Richard Ehrlich), Brian d'Arcy James (James Dodd), Laura Linney (Sarah Goodwin) and Alicia Silverstone (Mandy Bloom). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Time Stands Still, by Donald Margulies, with Laura Linney and Brian d'Arcy James, in a Manhattan Theater Club production at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater. (C1)
 Eric Bogosian and Alicia Silverstone as an unlikely couple in Donald Margulies's drama ''Time Stands Still.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); THEATER COMPANIES (75%); CONTUSIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); THEATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (54%)

TITLE: Time Stands Still (Play)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



832 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN
 Greenberg Van Doren Gallery
 730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street
 Through Feb. 13
 With abstract painting again in the art world's eye, the time is right to renew an acquaintance with the American artist John McLaughlin. We caught a glimpse of him in ''The Third Mind: American Artists Contemplate Asia, 1860-1989'' at the Guggenheim last year. But the Greenberg Van Doren show of 14 pristine geometric paintings is the first New York survey in some time.
 McLaughlin was born near Boston in 1898; the first art he remembered was the collection of Japanese painting at the Museum of Fine Arts there. He lived in Japan in the 1930s, where he became an art dealer. Fluent in Japanese, he was recruited as a translator by the Army in War World II. He retired to Southern California, where he sold Japanese prints and took up painting. He started painting full-time when he was around 50 and continued until his death in 1976. 
 He was self-taught in the sense that he had no formal training, though as a practiced examiner and trader of art his education was hands-on and deep. It was also wide-ranging. He claimed as his Asian ideal the 15th-century Japanese artist Sesshu, a Zen painter-priest who, with a brush, ink and plain paper, distilled the natural world to a near-abstract cluster of lines and washes. But at least as important was the example of two early Western modernists, Kasimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian.
 The first was a mystic, the second, a utopian. McLaughlin was neither, though he learned from, and added to the example of both. He pushed Malevich's monumentalizing geometric forms off-balance or made them so big that they stopped being forms and started being space. He pulled Mondrian's programmatic primary colors into the ordinary world, mixing the blue and yellow to make a grassy green, fiddling with red until it was a brickish vermilion. After the 1950s McLaughlin stuck pretty much with black, white and ivory-gray, seemingly intent on making his paintings as simple and limitless as possible.
 His physical pleasure in painting is evident; his best surfaces are fine-touched like Mondrian's. But his motivation for doing the work was always, it seems, the same: to encourage the passer-by to stop, look and linger. He once wrote, ''I want to communicate only to the extent that the painting will serve to induce or intensify the viewer's natural desire for contemplation without the benefit of a guiding principle.''
 So there it is: he had faith in our ''natural desire for contemplation.'' What a concept. HOLLAND COTTER 
 CHRISTIAN HOLSTAD
 Daniel Reich Gallery
 Chelsea
 537A West 23rd Street
 Through March 6
 Christian Holstad was part of a wave of young, busy-handed, crafts-oriented artists who gained attention in the mid-2000s, when the art industry was trying to leave identity politics and consumerist critique behind. As it turned out, his work was about both, but he was talking about them in a new way, from the vantage point of a precocious child already antsy with adult appetites.
 For his first New York gallery solo, he created a boy-in-the-bubble preteen bedroom pieced together from cheapo materials and set in what looked like a giant condom. Then, in a vacated storefront, he staged a playroom version of the kind of gay sex club that proliferated in Manhattan before AIDS and City Hall wiped them out. Both installations were visually imaginative, but what made Mr. Holstad interesting was the way he wove queerness into his intensely ambivalent view of American culture.
 His current show at Daniel Reich, called ''The World's Gone Beautiful,'' opens with a nod to the recession: the gallery's security gate is down, only a sign on the door indicates that the place is open for business. Inside, soft-sculpture shopping carts stitched and woven from millinery tubing lie drooped over wood on platforms that could have been used for sales displays or for disco dancers. The title of each deflated cart begins with the phrase ''The Road to Hell Is Paved,'' followed by the parenthetical name of a different chain store: Costco, Target, Home Depot, etc.
 On the walls hang intricate cut-paper collages depicting still lifes of trash. In one collage a garbage can holds a broken wagon wheel, black window blinds and soap. Another lumps together a polka-dot umbrella, a dildo, a Chinese takeout container and a lavender candle with burning wicks at both ends. A third encompasses a Bible, a pan of cornbread, a broken high-heel and purse.
 Sex, religion, class, money, mortality, fast-food and the Wild West are all there in Mr. Holstad's exquisitely executed Americana. The world represented is beautiful and awful, and it's going, going, gone. HOLLAND COTTER 
 'IN NUMBERS'
 'Serial Publications by Artists'
 X Initiative
 548 West 22nd Street
 Chelsea
 Closing on Saturday
 As part of its last hurrah before closing as planned after a year of existence, X Initiative is offering a survey of serial art zines, alternatives to the publishing world somewhat in the way X Initiative itself has been an alternative to the commercial gallery world: that is, not necessarily a radical departure, but definitely a different way to go.
 The show, organized by Andrew Roth and Phil Aarons, and expanded on in an excellent book, displays examples of nearly 40 titles. They range from Wallace Berman's ''Semina'' in the 1950s, to ''0 to 9,'' edited by Vito Acconci and Bernadette Mayer in the 1960s, to recent and ongoing serials like Maurizio Cattelan's ''Permanent Food.'' Some serials, like Eleanor Antin's ''100 Boots'' and the fabulous, labor-intensive ''Art for Um'' by Buster Cleveland (real name: James Trenholm), have been short-term, single-artist affairs. Others, like the edited boxed sets published by North Drive Press, involve many artists and several editors.
 Scott Hug's ''K48,'' CD-size and desktop-designed, covers the cultural waterfront. The punkish ''J.D.s,'' originally printed by its editors Bruce LaBruce and G .B. Jones on a photocopier in Toronto, is directed toward a queer subculture. The zines in the show come from North America, Europe and Asia. The content can be naughty (''Artpolice,'' issued by Frank Gaard in Minneapolis from 1974 to 1994, wanted to be as censor-baiting as possible) and nice (''Living and Loving,'' which consists mostly of interviews with everyday people conducted by the artists Aleksandra Mir and Polly Staple, is odd but sweet).
 Self-published and self-distributed, these serials, as a genre, technically represent some kind of last bastion of art with minimal commercial strings attached, though many, like those on view under glass in the show, are now precious collectors' items. Maybe, in the end, digital publication, floating out there in the ether, instantly edited and re-edited, almost endlessly distributable, may be the real serial frontier. HOLLAND COTTER

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A detail showing FILE Megazines, part of the ''In Numbers'' exhibition at X Initiative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM POWELL IMAGING/X INITIATIVE)
 Untitled (1952), by John McLaughlin, in a show of 14 paintings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREENBERG VAN DOREN GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); ART DEALERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



833 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: On a Corner in Brooklyn, Polish Gives Way to Spanish

BYLINE: By EWA KERN-JEDRYCHOWSKA. 
Ewa Kern-Jedrychowska is a reporter for Nowy Dziennik, The Polish Daily News.

 BODY:
For years, every morning, the sight has been the same at Marcy and Division Avenues in Williamsburg, Brooklyn: a crowd of women gathered on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway overpass in the din of traffic. They are day laborers, looking for work cleaning houses of nearby residents. 
 There were originally maybe 40 or 50, according to veterans of the hiring corner. And like many traditions that grow up out of necessity around New York City, this gathering of cleaning women had certain unwritten codes, accepted patterns that all the women acknowledged. 
 The young Polish students speaking fluent English were usually in front. Just behind them, spread along the overpass fence, stood older women, in their 40s and 50s, mostly Polish with a few from other Eastern European nations. Then, at the end of the line, a few women from Latin America.
 But as the years have passed, and the economy has faltered, change has come to this corner in Brooklyn. Gradually but unmistakably, young immigrants from Peru, Mexico and Ecuador have taken the front row. A smaller crowd of older Polish women now stands behind them. And the crowd has more than doubled, with women spilling onto the street on two corners.
 Lost jobs in factories, tailor shops, stores and restaurants in other parts of the city have brought the Hispanic women to Williamsburg: a lot of them, like the Polish women, are illegal immigrants and therefore not eligible for unemployment benefits. Being a domestic day laborer is one of their few safe options for making a little money.
 At the same time, the economic slowdown has meant fewer Polish students are coming to the United States, especially since they have other options in Europe now, with Poland's entry into the European Union.
 On a recent morning, the women stood side by side, braced against the cold. In parkas and hoods, with bags over their shoulders, the Hispanic women were in front. The Polish women stood in knots to the side, their hair tucked in knit caps, smoking, sharing a free tabloid newspaper, keeping their eyes glued to the curb for work. 
 No matter what country the women came from, their breath made mist in the air just the same. But the Polish and Hispanic women did not talk to each other. And the language barrier may have only been one reason. The Hispanic women may be willing to accept less money -- $7 or $8 per hour -- than the Polish women, who generally charge $10, some members of the crowd said. 
 Cars and school buses passed, but the women noticed only those few that stopped. When one white sedan pulled up, it was practically mobbed. 
 ''Two, three years ago, I used to get a job every day within a few minutes of waiting here,'' said Krystyna, 45, who lives nearby in Greenpoint. She did not want her last name used. ''Now I get it two, three times a week at best. And I have to wait at least one and a half to two hours.'' 
 The wages of a day laborer were far more than she could get at home. And getting the job was easy. At least it used to be.
 ''More people started to clean their houses themselves as they try to save money,'' Krystyna said. The size of the crowd at the overpass makes her and her companions anxious: They worry that if the gathering grows too large, it may attract too much attention and be shut down. Some Polish workers complained that by working for less money, the women from Latin America were undermining a market that they had worked hard to establish. 
 Rebecca Gutierrez, 51, is one of the relative newcomers. She has been looking for work since June, when she was laid off from a food catering business. ''I really need to work,'' she said, her voice edged with weariness.
 Around 11 a.m., the crowd started to thin out. Most of the Polish women were gone, including Krystyna. Some left with their employers; others decided to call it a day. But Ms. Gutierrez was still waiting. She was one of the oldest women on hand from Latin America. In a good week, she is able to make $100. The word around is that the best days for getting a job are Thursdays and Fridays, as the preparations for Jewish Sabbath begin. But it was Wednesday. Ms. Gutierrez quit around noon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Awaiting work in Williamsburg. A hiring corner once dominated by Eastern European women, primarily Poles, is increasingly Hispanic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIN ZURAWICZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ECUADOR (79%); MEXICO (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); POLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



834 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Durable-Goods Orders Rose Modestly in December

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Businesses are slowly regaining the confidence to invest in equipment and machinery, according to a government report released on Thursday.
 At the same time, a separate report showed only moderate progress in the number of people filing for unemployment insurance, fanning concerns that the labor market may recover at a stubbornly slow pace. 
 The Commerce Department said Thursday that orders for durable goods, which include long-lasting items like refrigerators and planes, were up 0.3 percent in December. Economists had predicted a 2 percent increase, but much of the difference was the result of a steep drop in aircraft orders. For 2009, orders fell 20.2 percent, the steepest decline since at least 1992. 
 Still, analysts said the report's details were mostly positive. For instance, excluding volatile transportation equipment, durable-goods orders climbed 0.9 percent in December, outpacing expectations of a 0.5 percent increase. And orders for nonmilitary capital goods, like computers, rose 3.7 percent in the month, suggesting businesses were looking to expand in response to rising demand.
 ''When companies are confident enough to increase business investment, they are typically confident to hire more workers,'' said James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist for MF Global. ''This is a positive sign for employment growth prospects.''
 But that growth may be slow and stunted. A separate Labor Department reporton Thursday showed the number of people filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits dropped last week by a smaller margin than expected. Claims fell to 470,000 last week, down 8,000 from the previous week, but economists had predicted a 32,000 drop. 
 ''These numbers are still consistent with a pretty weak labor market,'' Mr. O'Sullivan said. ''It's not as weak as it was before, but these are still relatively high levels, even though the trend is toward improvement.''
 The four-week moving average of claims, which is considered a more accurate measure of longer-term momentum, rose last week. 
 Many economists say they believe recovery will not come until the jobless rate falls substantially below its 10 percent level. Indeed, in his State of the Union address on Wednesday night, President Obama reiterated that creating jobs was a priority this year.
 In manufacturing, a bellwether industry, jobs growth is expected to come steadily as demand returns. Manufacturers are grappling with weak demand from businesses and consumers. From the start of the recession in December 2007 through last June, industrial production fell 18 percent in the United States. Since June, a recovery has taken hold, and production has climbed 4.5 percent.
 ''The sector is regaining its footing again,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. ''An inventory swing is pushing up orders for materials and the resulting increase in production activity is having a positive impact on business equipment spending.''
 The durable-goods data was consistent with a moderate-paced recovery, Mr. Meckstroth said, though the level of production will probably taper off in future quarters. The overall increase was helped by a 3.6 percent rise in orders for cars and car parts. But aircraft orders dropped by 38.2 percent in December, after a 40 percent drop in November.
 On Friday, the government will report how quickly the economy grew in the fourth quarter of 2009. 
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the growth rate, measured by gross domestic product, to reach 4.6 percent -- more than double the rate in the third quarter. Analysts said Thursday's durable-goods numbers were consistent with that estimate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job-seekers waited in subfreezing cold Wednesday to attend a jobs fair in Lake Orion, Mich. Factory orders rose last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DURABLE GOODS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RECESSION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (69%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



835 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Landlord Faces Lawsuit for Harassment

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI; Ann Farmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
State Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo announced Thursday that he intends to sue a major New York landlord that he says harassed hundreds of tenants in rent-regulated apartments in Queens and Manhattan in a systematic effort to force their departure to create vacancies for higher-paying tenants.
 The landlord, Vantage Properties, routinely filed eviction notices and other legal actions against working-class and immigrant families in tenements that the company had recently acquired to generate ''substantial tenant turnover,'' investigators and tenant advocates said. But most of the legal notices, the attorney general said in a letter to Vantage, contained ''deceptive and misleading representations.'' Investigators said the majority of those notices were eventually rejected by the city's housing courts, although the company denied that. 
 The attorney general notified Neil Rubler, president of Vantage Properties, that his office would file a lawsuit in five days unless the company stopped the harassment, paid damages to tenants and agreed to a monitor to oversee its future rental activity.
 ''Landlords who illegally harass tenants to boost their bottom line do great harm to the fabric of the city,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''Their underhanded tactics displace longtime residents from their homes and exacerbate the acute affordable-housing shortage.''
 Vantage issued a statement Thursday evening saying it looked forward to demonstrating to Mr. Cuomo its commitment ''to serving its residents and to the future of affordable housing in New York City.''
 But its financial partner, Apollo Real Estate Advisors, also issued a statement expressing regret that Vantage had not yet reached an agreement with the attorney general ''incorporating best practices and other tenant protections, which we fully support.''
 ''We expect that Vantage will work with Attorney General Cuomo's office to get this matter resolved quickly,'' Apollo said.
 Marina Materon, 63, a cleaning woman who has lived in the same four-story building in Sunnyside, Queens, for 26 years, said Vantage had been harassing her since it bought the building in January 2008. She said she had to go to court to resolve a false claim that she owed back rent, but still regularly receives notices demanding back rent.
 ''It's harassment,'' she said during an interview at her home, ''because I'm paying my rent and every month they're sending me this thing that says I have to pay this amount. I don't know what I would do if I had to move.''
 Ms. Materon, who pays $754.70 per month for her two-bedroom apartment, said her building is deteriorating. There are rats and cockroaches; the front door is broken and sometimes stays open at night. 
 A relative newcomer, Vantage spent more than $2 billion at the height of the market in 2006 and 2007, buying about 125 buildings with more than 9,500 apartments in Queens, Washington Heights and Harlem. Most often, it did so in partnership with Apollo.
 Vantage, like the Pinnacle Group, the Praedium Group and other private equity firms, paid top dollar for rent-regulated buildings in working-class neighborhoods and wrapped them in inordinately large mortgages. Although rental income did not cover their mortgage payments, their business plan was to profit by forcing out tenants in rent-regulated apartments, renovating the units and sharply increasing rents.
 Indeed, after Vantage and Apollo bought eight buildings in Washington Heights, rental income covered only 40 percent of the annual loan payments. Only one of the 455 apartments was not regulated. But Vantage expected quick turnover.
 ''The borrower anticipates to recapture approximately 20 to 30 percent of the units by year end 2008, and 10 percent per year thereafter,'' according to a 2007 corporate filing. 
 But the average annual turnover in a rental building in New York is closer to 5 percent. The attorney general and tenant advocates said the only way that Vantage could achieve those numbers was by harassing tenants with fake eviction notices and other tactics.
 ''The Wall Street type of competition and profit seeking of private equity financing is causing an epidemic of tenant harassment,'' said Benjamin Dulchin, executive director of the Association of Neighborhood Housing. ''Vantage and their financiers are jeopardizing economic diversity and long-term stability of our neighborhoods.''
 Vantage claimed that it was only trying to weed out those tenants who did not qualify for rent regulation. But investigators point out that 86.2 percent of the termination notices filed by Vantage at one complex, Savoy Park in Harlem, were resolved in favor of the tenants.
 Marcos Oliveira said he never had a landlord problem before Vantage bought his building in Jackson Heights, Queens. Vantage sent him a letter saying that he and his family had to leave because the apartment was not his primary residence. He said he gathered up years of bills from Con Ed and other vendors to prove that he was a longtime resident. But Vantage, he said, refused to cash his rent checks.
 ''I couldn't believe it,'' Mr. Oliveira said. ''How come I've been here so long with no problem? Everyone in the building knows me. What do I have to do to get them to leave my family alone?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marina Materon, a Vantage tenant, says the company regularly sends her letters falsely claiming she owes back rent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); LITIGATION (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EVICTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); DAMAGES (73%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



836 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Women's League Shutters Popular Los Angeles Team

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Women's Professional Soccer has decided to shut down the Los Angeles Sol, its most popular team, after failing to find a buyer for the club.
 The team's owners, which included the Anschutz Entertainment Group, the entertainment arm of the sports empire owned by the billionaire Philip F. Anschutz, tried to sell the team after its inaugural season. In November, they gave the rights to the team back to the league, which took over the Sol's operations. 
 League officials were in talks with a potential buyer, but negotiations collapsed last weekend over the price. The league will have a dispersal draft next week for the team's 19 players, including the Brazilian Marta, perhaps the most accomplished female player in the world. 
 ''It's unfortunate when this happens to any league, but it is more amplified for a young league,'' said Tonya Antonucci, the league's commissioner. ''It doesn't speak to the viability to the L.A. market. We want to get back into L.A. in 2011.''
 Thanks in part to Marta's popularity, the Sol drew crowds that were 25 percent larger when it played on the road. The team averaged 6,300 fans a game at the Home Depot Center, compared with 4,600 for the rest of the league at home. The Sol had the best record during the regular season and lost in the championship game to Sky Blue F.C., the New Jersey/New York club.
 The league began its first season in 2009 with seven teams and as many question marks. The recession muted sponsorship and ticket sales, and although some games were broadcast live, the league did not have a major television contract.
 Its predecessor, the Women's United Soccer Association, folded in 2003 after three years and about $100 million in losses, raising questions about the viability of a women's professional soccer league in the United States.
 Several W.P.S. franchises lost $1 million to $2 million last season, about twice as much as expected. The main culprit was the lack of local sponsorships. The Sol was one of the stronger franchises financially, Antonucci said.
 Antonucci said that the league and teams had seen an increase in the value and number of sponsorships compared with last year.
 Despite the loss of the Sol, the league will expand this season with teams in Philadelphia and Atlanta, which has a new soccer-only stadium. The remaining owners are primarily entrepreneurs and small businessmen, more in keeping with the league's grass-roots expansion strategy.
 Antonucci said the league had also held preliminary talks about placing teams in Dallas, Denver, San Diego and Seattle.
 The league will expand its schedule by four games to 24 this season, which begins April 10. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); SOCCER (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); TICKET SALES (65%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (84%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (67%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (67%)

PERSON: PHILIP ANSCHUTZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



837 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2236 words

HEADLINE: Europe on the Upper East Side

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
The Upper East Side gallery scene can often seem a bit staid, but it has its mercurial side. For one thing, the art in its contemporary galleries frequently pushes the envelope. For another, its many semiprivate dealers occasionally mount shows en masse, whether by plan or coincidence, that amount to collective mood swings. Sometimes Asian art is ascendant, or 19th- and early-20th-century American art. Right now the neighborhood has broken out in exhibitions of European drawings. 
 Friday and Saturday are officially -- emphasis on officially -- the last days of ''Master Drawings New York,'' an annual weeklong constellation of exhibitions, now in its fourth incarnation, that coincides with the old master auctions and the Winter Antiques Show. That event, at the Park Avenue Armory, is open through Sunday, and some of the gallery shows are up well beyond that. 
 Some semiprivate dealers have staged their only public exhibitions of the year; others have put their spaces at the disposal of out-of-town dealers or space-challenged local ones. The effect is something like an art fair, but more focused in terms of material and more geographically spread out at sites better appointed, more spacious and vastly more architecturally interesting than the average art fair booth. Factor in some other galleries in the area showing drawings (including contemporary ones), and there's quite a bit to look at, most of it on or just off Madison Avenue between 66th and 81st Streets.
 The work is primarily European, from the 16th century almost to the present, with high concentrations of Italian, French, Dutch-Flemish and English drawings from the 17th century to the early 19th. Marquee names are scarce, but there are many extraordinary talents who are all but unknown to those of us outside the specialized world of drawings. 
 Which is to say that you never know what you'll see, and that you won't necessarily know what you're looking at. The unpredictability provides great exercise for the eye, whether amateur or expert -- though in some cases not much exertion is required. 
 At the Didier Aaron gallery (32 East 67th Street), for example, you'd almost have to be blind not to be intrigued by a drawing of people standing and sitting in a large, colonnaded space centered on an imposing history painting, which is displayed beneath a skylight. The work of Jean-Pierre Norblin de la Gourdaine -- a new name to many -- it dates from 1805-10, but feels awfully prescient: The set-up is a precise precursor of Thomas Struth's photographs from the last two decades of people looking at prominent artworks in museums and churches. 
 Double Takes
 Also at Didier Aaron, Addison Fine Arts from San Francisco has set up shop with a range of English and European drawings and watercolors -- including works by Pinturricchio and Rembrandt -- and at least one instance of illuminating confusion. What I thought was a western landscape of a mountain waterfall by the 20th-century American artist Rockwell Kent was in fact an unusually modern-looking watercolor view of the Swiss-Italian Alps by the Briton Francis Towne , from 1789. 
 Similar surprises can be had at Jill Newhouse Gallery (4 East 81st Street), where works from the collection of Curtis O. Baer, are on view through Feb. 26. Keep an eye out for an early, uncharacteristically blocky rendering of a man's back that Odilon Redon made in 1860 when he was but 20, and a late, rather scary ink drawing of birdlike figures by Max Beckmann that you might almost think was by Wifredo Lam. 
 While the offerings at Newhouse range back to the 17th-century Dutch, those at the Jan Krugier Gallery (980 Madison Avenue, near 76th Street) are devoted almost exclusively to the 19th- and 20th-century French and Spanish. One of the stars here is a Picasso charcoal of a large bull's head from around 1955 that (like Ms. Newhouse's Redon) seems more chiseled than drawn.
 Some galleries are fairly strict in their national orientation. The drawings that Jose de la Mano has brought from Madrid are almost all Spanish, ranging from early-17th-century works to two drawings by Luis Feito, a little-known Modernist born in 1927. Visiting his display on the second floor of the Arader Gallery at 1016 Madison Avenue, near 78th Street, has an added perk: the generous stairway is lined with wonderful botanical prints -- an Arader specialty -- of American trees by the 18th-century British naturalist Mark Catesby. 
 Next door, at Mitchell-Innes & Nash, at 1018 Madison, Lowell Libson of London is showing mostly 18th- and 19th-century English drawings, including works by Constable, Gainsborough and John Martin. But there are also English scenes by foreigners, most notably four small, resonant ink studies from the 1660s of lush London parks. They are the work of Michel van Overbeek, possibly a Dutch merchant who drew as he traveled, given the geographical range of his subjects and the apparent lack of paintings by him. 
 Another London dealer, James Mackinnon, has brought a mostly English selection to Clinton Howell Antiques (150 East 72nd Street), including a radiant watercolor of the Eton College Library by Augustus Charles Pugin (1762-1832) that is one of the few richly reported interiors in the shows. And a third London establishment, Stephen Ongpin Fine Art, at Mark Murray Fine Paintings (39 East 72nd Street), has topped off an imposing mix of mostly French and Italian drawings dating as far back as the early 16th century -- a Virgin and Child by Ridolfo Ghirlandaio, the son of Domenico -- with more recent English works, including L. S. Lowry's first attempt at watercolor. He made it on the spot in 1952, at 65, when the daughter of a friend he was visiting doubted that he was a famous artist. 
 Identity Searches
 Attribution questions abound in this field, turning the week into an opportunity for dealers to draw on one another's expertise. One of the first things to be seen in a show mounted by Mia N. Weiner, a private dealer from Connecticut, at L'Antiquaire & the Connoisseur (36 East 73rd Street, through next Friday) is ''Study of an Anguished Female Head,'' with a typed label reading, ''Flemish, 17th-century.'' Scrawled over it in pencil are the words ''Maybe C. de Crayer'' -- ''a suggestion by someone more knowledgeable than I,'' Ms. Weiner said. She also said she had dispatched an assistant to the Frick Library to seek out a photograph of a Caspar de Crayer painting that might be based on the drawing. 
 Monroe Warshaw, a private Manhattan dealer who is having his first public exhibition at the Alexander Gallery (942 Madison Avenue, between 74th and 75th Streets, through next Friday) buys almost nothing but unattributed drawings and then sets about consulting with art historians and curators. ''Otherwise, it's no fun,'' he said. 
 The result in this instance is a cluster of fascinating Flemish and German drawings that have been looked into on Mr. Warshaw's behalf by a young doctoral candidate named Edward Wouk, who may be on hand to talk about his research. He is especially forthcoming about a large sheet depicting sculptures of sandaled feet that was drawn in the 1530s from Roman statues and fragments that may all have been in the same private collection in Rome. Mr. Wouk and Mr. Warshaw have attributed the work to a little-known artist with the pleasing name Hermannus Posthumus. 
 On another wall, an exquisite drawing shows a Venus-like figure whose tree-branch arms transform her into Daphne, but whose proportions shout Northern Europe. Mr. Warshaw is convinced that it is the only known drawing by Georg Aberl, a southern German artist from the early 17th century, though he concedes that not everyone agrees.
 Nissman, Abromson Ltd. from Brookline, Mass., has an especially beautiful show at Praxis International Art (25 East 73rd Street). The Italian drawings here include one of a young boy eating that was, then wasn't and now is again by Veronese, and a deft study for a relief that is almost certainly by Pietro Bernini, father of the genius Gian Lorenzo, that helps to explain the son's preciosity. A charmingly crisp view of skaters on a frozen canal is by Auguste-Xavier Leprince (1799-1826), who didn't live long enough to leave much of a mark on history. A quizzical-looking young woman in a small portrait by the German painter Franz Kruger (1797-1857) has a softer charm. 
 A Day Out, Spoiled
 Don't miss a dark outdoor image from the 1890s by the Italian Post-Impressionist Giovanni Segantini. Heavily worked in conte crayon and ink, like an exceedingly muscular Seurat, it shows a boy breaking bread with two shifty-looking men. It suggests a classic Impressionist picnic gone awry, and may have an autobiographical basis: at an early age, to seek his fortune in art, Segantini stole money and ran away from home, only to conned out of his start-up cash by experienced grifters.
 Next door to Praxis, at 23 East 73rd Street, are three floors of shows. Trinity Fine Arts is showing mostly British works of the 19th and 20th centuries. At Mary-Anne Martin/Fine Art, 20th-century Mexican works prevail, with Rufino Tamayo and Gunther Gerzso standing out (through next Friday). The private New York dealer Richard A. Berman is ensconced at C. G. Boerner with drawings and watercolors ranging from the 16th century to Picasso and beyond. 
 At 5 East 73rd Street, the Craig F. Starr Gallery, which is not participating in ''Master Drawings New York,'' has, by coincidence, a display of 20 spare, jewel-like watercolor and pencil works by the American Post-Minimalist Richard Tuttle (through Feb. 13). Their adamant economy suggests that there is more than one way to be a master. 
 So do the bracingly feminist drawings of Ida Applebroog at Hauser & Wirth at 32 East 69th Street (through March 6). In a large group of small drawings from 1969 the artist concentrates on depicting her genitals; these relatively realistic renderings are contrasted with an installation of recent drawings in which she revisits the theme with more flamboyance. 
 There's a conspicuous concentration of quality at 19 East 66th Street, where both David Tunick and Simon Dickinson have shows, and Thomas Williams and Andrew Wyld of London are elegantly encamped at Dickinson. Start at the top, where Mr. Tunick's display includes a 15th-century drawing from the circle of Rogier van der Weyden. Depicting the swooning Virgin supported by the two Marys, it feels so solid that it might almost be a drawing of a carved sculpture.
 At Dickinson, I had trouble knowing who was showing what, but the works range from Jacques Callot through Boucher and Fragonard to Picasso and a Kees van Dongen gouache of a woman in a hat, from 1908, that provides some early fluorescent color. Mr. Wyld has Thomas Lawrence's 1790 portrait in pencil, charcoal and colored chalk of Lord Thomas Pelham-Clinton, a haughty, sharp-eyed boy looking none too happy in an off-the-shoulder dress. 
 And uptown at Shepherd & Derom Galleries (58 East 79th Street, through Feb. 20), the New York dealer Margot Gordon's selection of French and Italian drawings includes a striking portrait of a woman in red and black chalk by Federico Zuccaro. Also here is the dealer Crispian Riley-Smith from London, with Dutch and Flemish drawings, among them a rare Crucifixion by Hans Bol from the late 15th century and a crystalline view of the harbor at Delft in gray ink and wash by Joannis Jacobus Bijlaert (1734-1809). It is based on an earlier print, which accounts for its slightly archaic look and caption. 
 Further Steps
 Two of the galleries are a bit farther afield, but worth the extra walk. 
 To the east, at 252 East 68th Street, Stiebel Ltd. has an engaging array of mostly French drawings that veer among big and not-big names (through next Friday). Standouts include a Renoir study for female bathers, so refined that you might almost take it for an Ingres, and a strange, collagelike drawing of a woman surrounded by the heads of 27 male admirers of greatly varying ages. Its attribution has shifted from Louis-Leopold Boilly (1761-1845) to Jean-Baptiste Isabey (1767-1855) and is now leaning toward Boilly's son, Julien (1796-1874). 
 North of the action, at Carlton Hobbs (60 East 93rd Street), you can study the beautiful drawings Jean-Luc Baroni has brought from Paris. A stunning pastel portrait of Antonio Canova by the Irish artist Hugh Douglas Hamilton would seem to be the last word in realism. A hurried ink drawing by Guercino from around 1630 is reminiscent of Goya in its portrayal of spectators at a bullfight cringing behind, and peering in unison through, a horizontally slatted barricade. 
 Mr. Baroni's drawings are part of an exhibition titled, a tad off-puttingly, ''In the Grand Manner'' (through Tuesday), together with the rare, distinguished and often eccentric European antiques that Mr. Hobbs handles. A standout among these is a very large gold and silver-giltwood model of the Temple of Solomon from 1876 that looks something like a cross between the Bank of England and the James A. Farley Post Office on Eighth Avenue.
 In the grandest manner of all is the gallery's building itself: an enormous Louis XV-style mansion designed by John Russell Pope and completed in 1931. Three lots wide, it has few equals in this town in terms of sheer drop-dead majesty. It's a setting that puts the old back in master. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Picasso charcoal drawing of a bull. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAN KRUGIER GALLERY) (C21)
Jean-Pierre Norblin de la Gourdaine's early-19th-century drawing seems to anticipate more recent depictions of museumgoers admiring works of art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIDIER AARON)
A study of antique statues and fragments attributed to Hermannus Posthumus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONROE WARSHAW)
 Thomas Lawrence's portrait of Lord Thomas Pelham-Clinton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY W/S FINE ART LTD./ANDREW WYLD) (C23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



838 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: In Disaster, Tensions Ease Between an Island's Rivals

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO and MARC LACEY

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

 BODY:
Like almost anyone from Hispaniola, the island uncomfortably shared by Haiti and the Dominican Republic, Paloma Rivera is acutely aware that the two nations distrust each other, complain about each other and cite grievances about each other going back well over a century. 
 Yet here she was, a Dominican, clearing garbage and digging latrines in a slum in the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, to help survivors of the earthquake find a place to pitch their tents. 
 ''Maybe this earthquake, even with its tragedies, can do some good by making us a little less distant from each other,'' said Ms. Rivera, 24, a social worker who joined thousands of other Dominicans in loading emergency food and medicine into their vehicles and driving here. 
 Since the earthquake ravaged this city on Jan. 12, a dizzying array of soldiers, doctors, aid workers and missionaries have massed here from around the globe, communicating in Arabic, Hebrew, Mandarin and many other tongues. 
 Most of the time, their politics back home have taken a back seat, making for some strange bedfellows working in close proximity, if not exactly side by side: Israelis and Libyans, Pakistanis and Indians, all trying to get this country back on its feet.
 In other cases, the earthquake seems to be highlighting conflicts among Haiti's allies. Venezuela and Cuba, jockeying for influence, have criticized the United States, which has long been a major influence here, for its heavy use of soldiers in its humanitarian aid effort. 
 ''It's worrisome that the United States is using this tragedy to militarily occupy Haiti,'' President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said last week during a visit to Bolivia for the inauguration of President Evo Morales. Mr. Morales, a top recipient of Venezuelan aid, described the Obama administration's decision to send troops to Haiti as ''an invasion.''
 Taiwan, meanwhile, has been using its close ties with Haiti to fend off the entreaties of the Chinese government, which has been trying to win over Haiti's president, Rene Preval, and convince him that his country should no longer recognize Taiwan as an independent nation. 
 But among all the various political relationships thrown into flux, the possible metamorphosis of Haiti's ties with the Dominican Republic stands out. 
 Before the earthquake, Haiti's political class viewed its neighbor to the east with extreme suspicion. The harsh treatment of Haitian immigrants by the Dominican Republic and lingering animus over a massacre of tens of thousands of Haitian laborers ordered in 1937 by the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo fuel the resentment, along with a dose of envy over the relative prosperity of Haiti's next-door neighbor.
 Some in the Dominican political establishment, in turn, had long gazed at Haiti with resentment over Haiti's two-decade annexation of the former Spanish colony of Santo Domingo in the 1800s. And in recent decades, the Dominican government focused on averting a major influx of Haitian immigrants, while relying on cheap Haitian labor for construction and to cut sugar cane. 
 It would be impossible to erase all this resentment in just two weeks. But the thousands of Dominicans helping the victims here may have begun chiseling away at the divisions between the 18.6 million people almost evenly distributed across the two nations. 
 ''Our relations with Haiti will never be the same,'' Pastor Vasquez, 42, a senior diplomat at the Dominican Embassy, said outside the damaged embassy building, where dozens of volunteers were staying in tents. 
 Mr. Vasquez said the Dominican Republic had waived visa restrictions for Haitians seeking emergency medical care, authorized nearly 300 flights carrying aid and donated $11 million. One of the Dominican Republic's most prosperous corporate families, Grupo Vicini, which has been accused of exploiting Haitian workers on sugar cane plantations in the past, has also donated millions of dollars for the recovery.
 While other immigration restrictions at the main border crossing remain, the countries are warily growing closer in other ways. After the earthquake, Haiti's leaders at first resisted the idea of accepting Dominican troops to work with the United Nations force here, but then changed their minds. 
 The decision has not been easy for the Dominican Republic either. President Leonel Fernandez's proposal to send more than 100 troops to Haiti set off a debate over what would happen if the soldiers encountered violence, with some of Mr. Fernandez's opponents saying that the proposal should be subjected to congressional approval. 
 Political analysts also point out that the assistance is not purely altruistic. For starters, the Dominican Republic is concerned about an exodus of Haitians across the border, so it is in the its own interest to stabilize Haiti. 
 Another interest is economic, analysts say. 
 ''The Dominican Republic may have the most to gain in the immediate future from reconstruction efforts,'' said Johanna Mendelson Forman, a senior associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''Its firms are poised to help with building equipment, and it has investors who have shown an interest in helping to create infrastructure,'' she said in a research paper.
 But the work of the Dominican volunteers points to other, more idealistic motivations. Each day, they distribute food in the slum known as Delmas 54 and work on a census of the homeless. They even called the displaced-persons camp they helped create Quisqueya, a word used in both countries to refer to the indigenous origins of Hispaniola. 
 Elisabeth Delatour Preval, Haiti's first lady, said that when she was finally able to sign on to her computer after the earthquake, one of the first messages she received was from her Dominican counterpart, Margarita Cedeno de Fernandez. 
 ''She asked me how she could help,'' Mrs. Preval said, noting that their husbands had been in frequent communication since the earthquake as well.
 As Lorraine Mangones, a Haitian community activist, put it, ''I guess they didn't hate us as much as we thought.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A woman held out a chit to get aid this week at a tent city in Port-au-Prince organized by a group from the Dominican Republic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (78%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); POLITICS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); HUGO CHAVEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



839 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: To Lure Cubs, Promises And Perks

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON; Dave Seminara contributed reporting from Chicago.

 BODY:
With spring training approaching, the annual tussle between the Grapefruit and Cactus Leagues has returned, only with a twist.
 For decades, teams have been leaving Florida for Arizona. But in the last year, lawmakers and investors in Florida have tried to lure the Chicago Cubs to Naples by promising to build them a stadium, surrounding facilities and a commercial district. The effort was so serious that Florida Gov. Charlie Crist hosted the Cubs owner Tom Ricketts in Tallahassee.
 But the odds of the Cubs leaving Arizona, where they have trained since the 1950s, diminished this week when the team signed a deal with the city of Mesa, which has promised to spend $84 million on a new stadium, offices and a training center. Assuming the city plan clears several more legislative hurdles, the Cubs will stay in Mesa for 25 more years and develop a commercial district nearby.
 The yearlong tug of war over the Cubs underscored how difficult it has been for Florida to keep and recruit teams. Since 1998, six major league clubs have moved to Arizona, enticed by sweetheart stadium deals, drier weather and closer proximity to other teams. The biggest departure came last year, when the Los Angeles Dodgers left Vero Beach after more than a half-century. There are now 15 clubs in each state, which creates scheduling challenges because of the odd number of teams. 
 No teams have moved east since the Cleveland Indians in 1993. They moved back to Arizona in 2009. Cities in Arizona have aggressively courted teams using, among other things, a permanent tax on car rentals to finance stadiums.
 By contrast, cities in Florida have tapped a total of $150 million in state subsidies to refurbish their stadiums. But legislators have been reluctant to replenish that fund and cash-strapped cities have had trouble persuading voters that their tax dollars should be spent on privately owned teams. Some voters have also been skeptical of the economic benefits promised by supporters of publicly funded stadium projects.
 ''In today's economy, it would be tough'' for Florida to attract a team from Arizona, said Philip Porter, professor of economics at the University of South Florida.
 He added, ''Florida is not going to win if Arizona is willing to spend $84 million on a spring training stadium.''
 By threatening to move, teams have also created bidding wars between cities in Florida. In 2008, Sarasota -- smarting over the impending departure of the Cincinnati Reds -- tried to persuade the Red Sox to abandon Fort Myers, which is 80 miles away. The city spent several million dollars to buy land for a new facility, which sits idle because the Red Sox decided not to move. 
 Sarasota ultimately won over the Orioles, who previously played in Fort Lauderdale. But two grass-roots groups have sued the city and county of Sarasota, contending that lawmakers did not adequately disclose their efforts to refurbish the local stadium. They also doubt the economic forecasts being used to justify the project.
 ''We have a perfectly good stadium now, but the Orioles want a whole new complex,'' said Jim Lampl, a member of Sarasota Citizens for Responsible Government. ''If this was such a good idea, they would have vetted it with a thorough debate.''
 Stadium deals that are signed often include options that allow teams to move if their stadiums are not upgraded. But looming deadlines are often enough to scare a city into action.
 The Cubs' lease at Hohokam Stadium in Mesa, for instance, does not expire until 2016. But the club can opt out of its lease after the 2011 season. So about a year ago, the city and the team started to discuss upgrading the stadium and adding new training facilities.
 Because the space to expand was unavailable, the city found 110 acres elsewhere in Mesa where it could build a new stadium and have enough room left over for the Cubs to build a cluster of shops, restaurants and hotels called Wrigleyville West.
 Around this time, Craig Bouchard, a steel company executive in Chicago, saw the negotiations in Mesa as a chance to persuade the Cubs to move to Naples, where he has a home. David Moulton, a sportswriter in Naples who first floated the idea of the Cubs returning to Florida, introduced Bouchard to Fifth Avenue Advisors, investment managers in Naples who also wanted to bring the Cubs to town.
 While Mesa's bid relies primarily on public money, Naples's bid includes private capital as well. Bouchard and other investors would buy land in Naples and lease it to Collier County, which would construct a spring training facility using an increase in the local hotel bed tax.
 To recoup the cost of the property, Bouchard's group would develop the land around the stadium, much as the Cubs hope to do in Mesa. The plethora of other tourist attractions in Florida would be an additional draw, though some, like Walt Disney World, are hundreds of miles away. One study estimated that the Cubs would bring an extra $36 million a year to Collier County.
 ''We would make it a real destination for people to come and enjoy, not just the Cubs and a minor league team, but other things,'' said Craig Lyon, a partner at Fifth Avenue Advisors. ''It really has to be a facility that is active year-round.''
 Ricketts did his homework. He and his wife traveled with Crane Kenney, the team's president, to Naples as well as to Tallahassee to see the governor. His time in Florida did not go unnoticed in Mesa. 
 ''They started making promises to throw anything out there because there's no pressure to deliver,'' said Chris Brady, Mesa's city manager, referring to the bid by Naples. ''It became a competition and it was pretty urgent for us to put a proposal on the table.''
 Ultimately, the Cubs chose Arizona, partly because leaving would alienate their fans, some who chose to retire near the spring training site and others who have turned trips to Arizona into an annual ritual.
 At a Cubs convention this month, one fan asked Ricketts whether he planned to move the team to Florida. To the relief of many in the room, Ricketts said he had no immediate plans to move the club.
 ''Arizona has become the second home for the Cubs and it was definitely a factor'' in the bidding, Kenney said.
 Kenney acknowledged that several hurdles remain before the Cubs get their stadium. Lawmakers in Phoenix must vote on the financing for the state's share of the stadium and a ballot measure will be voted on in November. In this economy, Kenney said, nothing is assured.
 For now, the investors in Naples say they will revive their bid if the Mesa plan falters. Baseball advocates in Florida are also hoping to persuade the Milwaukee Brewers to move east before their lease in Arizona is up in 2012. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC:Cactus 6, Grapefuit 0: Over the last dozen years, six major league teams have moved their spring training sites, all of them relocating to Arizona from Florida. There are now 15 teams in each state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (55%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (54%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (93%); NAPLES, FL, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (73%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



840 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart Makes Organizational Moves to Raise Efficiency

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores, the world's biggest retailer, is consolidating some operations in the United States while dividing the country into three regions with separate presidents. The company is looking to more efficiently manage its more than 3,700 American stores. 
 The company said on Thursday that it was consolidating its logistics, real estate and store operations, now all to be overseen by Bill Simon, its United States chief operating officer.
 Andy Barron will oversee store merchandising execution, which will develop merchandise strategies for its three new business units: Walmart West, Walmart South and Walmart North.
 The retailer is also creating a new division called Global.com to oversee its global e-commerce business and promoted Wan Ling Martello to be its chief operating officer. She was previously chief financial officer of Walmart International.
 Raul Vazquez, who was the chief of Walmart.com in the United States, is taking on a new role as president of Walmart West.
 Eduardo Castro Wright, who oversees Wal-Mart's United States operations, said in a memo that the structure would ''facilitate our growth as we seek to enter new markets and develop new segments across the U.S.''
 The changes come nearly a year after Mike Duke became Wal-Mart's chief executive, taking the helm on Feb. 1, 2009, from Lee Scott, who retired. 
 At its analyst meeting in October, Mr. Duke said Wal-Mart was determined to become more efficient and cut costs, allowing it to offer lower prices to increase sales. On Sunday, Wal-Mart said it was cutting about 11,200 jobs at its Sam's Club warehouses.
 The retailer has also been looking for ways to stock its stores with merchandise that is more tailored to local tastes, while also analyzing ways to open stores in new markets after saturating many regions with large ''supercenters.''
 While Wal-Mart has gained market share amid the economic downturn, analysts are watching to see whether customers will continue to shop in its stores if the economy improves.
 On Thursday, Wal-Mart also announced a $2 billion sourcing deal with Li & Fung Ltd., which it said should result in savings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); MARKET SHARE (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (61%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (54%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); LI & FUNG LTD (81%); SAM'S CLUB (66%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); 0494 (HKSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS424310 PIECE GOODS, NOTIONS & OTHER DRY GOODS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); SIC5131 PIECE GOODS, NOTIONS, & OTHER DRY GOODS (81%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T DUKE (59%); RAUL VAZQUEZ (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



841 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Lackluster Economic News Pushes the Markets Lower

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Wall Street was hit with a string of disappointments on Thursday: a weaker-than-expected unemployment picture, a tepid recovery in manufacturing and skepticism about the technology sector, including concerns about Apple's tablet device. 
 As a result, shares faltered, with the Dow falling more than 150 points at one point, raising the possibility that the major indexes could end the month in negative territory. 
 After a sell-off last week that sent shares down nearly 5 percent in three days, traders were again sounding the alarm on Thursday that Wall Street might be in the midst of a steep adjustment. Fund managers are taking profits to lock in gains from last year's rally before things get worse, analysts said, and investors worried about the pace of recovery are beginning to pull out of the market. 
 The chief drag on stocks on Thursday was the technology sector. Shares of Qualcomm, the mobile phone chip maker, fell 14.24 percent after the company tempered its sales forecast. That occurred atop losses for Apple, which unveiled its iPad tablet computer to high expectations on Wednesday. Apple shares were down 4.13 percent, a decline that analysts attributed to disappointment with the profit-making potential of the iPad. Hewlett-Packard declined 3.36 percent and Microsoft fell 1.72 percent.
 ''People are expecting a lot out of Apple, and they can't disappoint,'' said M. Jake Dollarhide, chief executive of Longbow Asset Management in Tulsa, Okla. ''They can't afford to get a subdued reaction to their product.''
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 115.7 points, or 1.13 percent, at 10,120.46. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.18 percent, or 12.97 points, to 1,084.53, and the technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index dropped 1.91 percent, or 42.41 points, to 2,179 points.
 Two economic reports raised doubts among investors. The number of people filing first-time unemployment claims fell to 470,000 last week, a drop of 8,000; analysts had expected a drop of 32,000. That fueled concerns that job growth could take longer than previously thought, as investors await the release of January employment data.
 A report on long-lasting goods like cars and computers showed that the recovery in manufacturing was steady but still moderate. Over all, orders for such durable goods rose 0.3 percent in December, falling short of Wall Street expectations of a 2 percent increase.
 Stephen J. Carl, head equity trader for the Williams Capital Group, said the disappointing economic figures were causing investors to question whether stocks were out of touch with the actual pace of economic renewal.
 ''What you want to see going forward is a consistent round of positive economic numbers in each area before we can really give credence to the economy strengthening,'' Mr. Carl said. ''You want to see some kind of stability.''
 He said the markets might be due for a correction, defined as a drop of 10 percent or more, because there was no significant pullback during last year's remarkable rally, when the major indexes surged more than 20 percent.
 Not even seemingly good news for the market from Washington could perk up investors. Ben S. Bernanke won an easy second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve on Thursday afternoon, with the Senate voting 70-30 to reconfirm him. But even though his confirmation was expected on Wall Street, investors remain concerned that Mr. Bernanke has been bruised by a wave of discontent and may face pressure to toughen his stance on banks.
 As stocks declined Thursday, the dollar gained against most world currencies, hovering slightly under $1.40 against the euro.
 Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's 10-year note rose 3/32, to 97 27/32, and the yield fell to 3.63 percent, from 3.65 percent.
 Concerns about the possibility of a default in Greece persisted, with the cost of insuring debt rising to a record. European officials denied that the European Union was working on a bailout plan for Greece. The yield on Greek bonds rose above 7 percent.
 In London, the FTSE 100 settled 71.73 points, or 1.37 percent, lower while the DAX in Frankfurt declined 102.87 points, or 1.8 percent. The CAC-40 in Paris was 71.01 points, or 1.9 percent, higher.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of seven-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (95%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (95%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (95%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (95%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (69%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



842 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: While Confident Health Care Will Pass This Year, Democrats Still Search for a Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democratic leaders in Congress voiced resolute optimism on Thursday that they would adopt major health care legislation this year, and they said that doing so was a crucial element of President Obama's broader agenda to create jobs, revive the economy and reduce federal budget deficits. 
 But legislative leaders conceded that they did not have an immediate strategy for advancing a health care measure and described their time frame as open-ended. 
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi, at a news conference in the Capitol, said House Democrats had begun exploring the possibility of breaking out pieces of the comprehensive bill they passed in November and moving forward on smaller measures. 
 ''It means, we will move on many fronts, any front we can,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''We'll go through the gate. If the gate's closed, we'll go over the fence. If the fence is too high, we'll pole-vault in. If that doesn't work, we'll parachute in. But we're going to get health care reform passed for the American people, for their own personal health and economic security, and for the important role that it will play in reducing the deficit.''
 Aides said that a first candidate for a stand-alone measure could be the proposal to eliminate the exemption from federal antitrust law that health insurance companies have long enjoyed. Such a proposal was incorporated in the larger House health care bill. 
 The Senate considered a similar proposal but did not include it in the bill it passed on Dec. 24.
 In keeping with the tone of Mr. Obama's State of the Union address, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, placed health care in the context of a broader agenda focused on jobs and the economy. 
 Mr. Reid met Thursday with his top advisers and Senate committee chairmen to discuss the health care legislation, but made no decisions about how to proceed, aides said. 
 ''We're going to do health care reform this year,'' Mr. Reid said at a news conference. ''The question is, At this stage, procedurally, how do we get where we need to go.'' 
 The Republican victory in the Massachusetts special Senate election last week means that Democrats will soon lose their 60-vote majority, which they need to overcome Republican filibusters. But even if they could surmount Republicans opposition, Senate and House Democrats have yet to bridge the differences between their bills. 
 ''We're not talking about minor tweaks,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''It's more serious than that.'' 
 Though tensions between the two chambers have been running high, Ms. Pelosi did not criticize the Senate. 
 ''The rules of the House enable more expeditious passage of legislation,'' she said. ''The Senate takes longer. That's what our founders built into the system.''
 So, Ms. Pelosi added, ''I don't want to waste any energy on criticizing the Senate.'' 
 The speaker said the health care legislation would create four million jobs over 10 years. ''We must pass health care reform,'' she said. ''We cannot sustain financially the current system.'' 
 At a town-hall-style meeting in Tampa, Fla., on Thursday, Mr. Obama said he was intent on winning passage of a health care bill this year.
 ''If you are serious about reducing our deficit and debt,'' he said, ''you cannot accomplish it without reforming our health care system, because that's what's gobbling up more federal dollars than anything else.''
 The House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said he detected no material change in Mr. Obama's approach.
 ''Unfortunately,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''the president does not appear to have listened to what the people in Massachusetts have said.''
 One potential route for Democrats would be to have the Senate adopt changes to its health care measure as part of a budget bill, which could be approved with a simple majority vote. 
 But some centrist Democrats, like Senators Evan Bayh of Indiana and Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, have said they oppose that approach. 
 Another centrist Democrat, Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, said Thursday that he, too, would oppose use of the expedited budget procedure. He urged Senate Republicans to work with him instead. 
 ''If Republican colleagues are serious about fixing our health care system and want to avoid using the reconciliation process,'' Mr. Nelson said, ''then I will go to the negotiating table with them. If Republican senators join me at the table, we can use bipartisanship for health reform rather than use reconciliation, which needs only 50 votes.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid on Thursday discussing President Obama's State of the Union speech at a news conference on Capitol Hill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); FILIBUSTER (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE LAW (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (89%); NANCY PELOSI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



843 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: The Dutiful and the Mind-Boggling

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
THE POLITICIAN 
 An Insider's Account of John Edwards's Pursuit of the Presidency and the Scandal That Brought Him Down 
 By Andrew Young 
 301 pages. Thomas Dunne Books/St. Martin's Press. $24.99. 
 Andrew Young's hero was an inspiring Southern orator and a paragon of Christian virtue. He was a pillar of his community. Then he was photographed in compromising circumstances, outed as an adulterer and beset by a scandal that destroyed his career. ''They caught me, Andrew,'' the Rev. Bob Young confessed to his heartbroken teenage son. 
 The traumatized son later went on to subordinate his life to John Edwards's political career, becoming one of his most trusted aides. And he allowed his own reputation to be ruined in a vain effort to save Mr. Edwards from embarrassment. How much of that dutiful behavior can be explained by his father's fall? 
 ''Armchair psychologists will say that when John Edwards came along, I adopted him as a substitute for my father,'' Mr. Young writes in ''The Politician,'' his mind-boggling book about the sheer freakiness of Mr. Edwards's hubris, ambition and dishonesty. Of course they will. Armchair psychologists don't have it any easier than this. 
 But the Young-Edwards version of the Faust story defies reductive theorizing. It's just too bizarre for that. Mr. Young describes how he; his wife, Cheri; his children; and Mr. Edwards's pregnant girlfriend, Rielle Hunter, all moved in together (''the kids awakened to find a strange lady in the house'') while Mr. Young allowed himself to be falsely named as the baby's father-to-be. The Youngs' ''unnervingly surreal misadventure'' is as strange as science fiction. The people in this uneasy household gathered each week to watch ''American Idol'' together without noticing that their own drama could out-soap anything television had to offer.
 Although the basics of the Edwards meltdown are summarized in the current best seller ''Game Change'' (a book that got its reporting right, if Mr. Young is to be believed), the devil is in the details. And those details reflect an astonishing degree of either cynicism or delusional thinking on Mr. Edwards's part. Having worked as an assistant to Mr. Edwards for 10 years, Mr. Young thought he knew a lot about how this politician's mind worked. Still, Mr. Edwards could surprise him in chillingly Hitchcockian ways. 
 For instance, after Mr. Young finagled a way to explain Ms. Hunter's presence in Mr. Edwards's hotel room in Florida and get her out of there unnoticed, he says, Mr. Edwards just looked at him blankly and said: ''I don't know what you're talking about. Rielle wasn't in Florida.'' What was this: ''Gaslight''? A trip to the Twilight Zone? An exercise in lawyerly deniability, to which Mr. Edwards apparently often resorted? A conversation being secretly recorded? Or something even scarier? 
 ''I could tell from his tone of voice that he truly believed what he was saying,'' Mr. Young writes. ''I decided that he was either the best liar in the world or he was having some sort of psychological episode.'' For the record, Mr. Young says he has records of ''more than 30 calls with him, Rielle, and the Westin on the day of this incident.'' 
 Mr. Young first entered Mr. Edwards's orbit by falling hard, smitten by his Elmer Gantry-style charm. Mr. Young worked for him as a volunteer, a driver, a body man and then as operations manager. Yes, this entailed changing light bulbs for the Edwards family, but it also meant being extremely close to his employer. 
 With a dangerously inflated sense of his own importance, Mr. Young describes his own aspirations and magical thinking. (He joked that he would deliver the Edwards's groceries in hopes that they would some day spend 16 years in the White House -- during a vice presidency and then presidency.) ''It's like being the best friend of the quarterback in high school,'' he says. ''You protect him even if that means helping him get away with stuff.''
 At first the duplicity was relatively minor. (Mr. Edwards, wearing an Italian suit, commandeered the ''Made in America'' label from Mr. Young's garment in case it showed while he addressed a labor-union audience.) Then came two life-altering events: the diagnosis that Elizabeth Edwards, the candidate's strong-willed wife, had cancer and the arrival of Ms. Hunter, who was paid to make videos of Mr. Edwards on the campaign trail.
 Mr. Young found himself hemmed in by a philandering boss, the boss's wildly indiscreet girlfriend and two angry wives, Mr. Edwards's and his own. Did Mr. Young, from that point on, have any choice in how he could behave?
 He insists that he didn't. And he claims that there were numerous reasons he became embroiled in the lies about the paternity of Ms. Hunter's baby girl. (Mr. Edwards has since acknowledged that he is the child's father. He is now legally separated from his wife.) For starters, the Edwards campaign could not risk alienating Elizabeth Edwards's many admirers. She was better liked than Mr. Edwards, although ''The Politician'' will do nothing to further that sentiment. 
 Initially motivated by slavish loyalty, and expecting to be rewarded for his sacrifice, Mr. Young wound up leasing a house that he couldn't afford. (The book reveals that the philanthropist Bunny Mellon, a big Edwards fan, unwittingly financed some Hunter-related expenses. Mr. Young has testified to a federal grand jury about the campaign's financial practices.) By taking the rap for both philandering and indiscretion, Mr. Young became unemployable. Foolhardy as he looked, he feared that recanting the paternity claim would make matters worse. And Mr. Edwards, according to this book, freely played the cancer card. ''I can't let her die knowing this,'' Mr. Young says Mr. Edwards said about his affair with Ms. Hunter.
 Despite its attention to such homey details as the Young family's pet turtle, ''The Politician'' doesn't really take off until Ms. Hunter barges in. Suddenly, Mr. Young says, his wife and children had a diva in their midst. ''I had never known a woman who needed more attention, but on the day I received four calls in the space of an hour, I knew something unusual was going on,'' Mr. Young writes. Yet when he describes her disparagingly as someone who was excited by power, money and danger, he might as well be talking about himself.
 The factoids in ''The Politician'' are apt to be widely disseminated. But this, like ''Game Change,'' is a book worth reading for its larger drama. With a title that ultimately works like a shiv in the ribs, Mr. Young's book examines what a politician really is: the value of his words (Mr. Edwards's high-and-mighty denunciation of Bill Clinton on moral grounds has become priceless), the extent of his feelings of entitlement, the outrageousness of his ego (''Let's talk about you!'' Mr. Young would say, without Mr. Edwards's realizing he was joking) and the gap between his public convictions and private behavior. 
 And Mr. Young, for all his discreet vengefulness, is sympathetic to any politician's plight. The funny thing is that he may actually have done Mr. Edwards a favor. By any traditional standard this book would demolish Mr. Edwards's career. Today disgrace doesn't necessarily work that way. Regardless of whether Mr. Edwards can rise again, he now has nowhere left to fall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C21)
 Andrew Young (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERRY BROOME/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: Politician, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



844 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Possible Teacher Layoffs Would Have Big Impact

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
For more than three decades, New York City schools have soldiered on through turmoil, politics, recessions, budget crises and a changing cast of mayors and chancellors. But since 1976, the system has never carried out significant layoffs of teachers.
 That may soon change. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said that if the city does not wring pay concessions from the teachers' union and all of Gov. David A. Paterson's proposed budget cuts are approved -- a worst case -- the city may have to get rid of 11,000 of its 79,000 teachers. Last year, about 3,800 were lost through attrition, mostly retirement, so if similar numbers are recorded this year, several thousand could receive pink slips.
 Layoffs would hurt schools by increasing class sizes, which have already been inching up. They would also upset parents and students. And they would force the schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, to retreat from some of his fundamental strategies, including giving principals the prerogative to hire any candidate they wish. 
 Layoffs could be carried out in a couple of ways, but in the end would be based on seniority and teacher specialty. The system could decide how many of each kind of position to eliminate; for example, 600 general elementary school teachers and 200 high school math teachers. More likely, it could allow each of the 1,500 principals to decide which individual jobs to cut, like a music teacher or a Spanish teacher.
 In either case, according to the teachers' contract, teachers whose jobs were eliminated would be able to ''bump'' less senior teachers at other schools whose jobs require the same type of license. So if 200 math positions were being cut, the city's 200 most recently hired math teachers would lose their jobs and more senior teachers would move to replace them.
 ''Depending on the number of people you are talking about, the whole thing becomes very, very unstable,'' Mr. Klein said on Thursday. ''You might not just lose people to layoffs, what you see is a lot of motion and people moving to a lot of schools.''
 Mr. Klein has long used the doomsday outlook to illustrate his opposition to seniority clauses in the teacher contract. In a speech last fall, Mr. Bloomberg said he planned to press Albany to pass legislation allowing for merit-based layoffs. Such changes are anathema to the union, and lawmakers have responded coolly. The last contract expired in October, and the new contract is headed for arbitration.
 Michael Mulgrew, the president of the teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers, said that Mr. Klein was playing politics and that it was far from clear that layoffs would be necessary. He said the union planned to propose a series of cost cuts, including a retirement incentive plan that he said would save the city as much as $300 million. 
 ''How do you make that assumption? We've done all sorts of things to make things happen that nobody thought was possible,'' on past budgets, Mr. Mulgrew said. He said that he and Mr. Klein should be working together to fight state cutbacks in aid.
 In his budget speech on Thursday, the mayor said he would avoid layoffs by limiting teachers' and principals' raises for the next two years to 2 percent a year for the first $70,000 in salary, and nothing for any pay above that. The teachers' union called the proposal unacceptable and is hoping for 4 percent annual raises applied to the whole salary, as other city unions have received in the last couple of years.
 In speaking publicly about layoffs, Mr. Klein seemed to up the ante on the increasingly tense relationship between the city and the union. Mr. Klein said he planned to renew his case on how teachers should be laid off to the Legislature when he testified on the budget in Albany on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Klein said he planned to fight for a restoration of the $500 million cut proposed in the governor's budget, but said that even if the cut was smaller, layoffs remained a significant possibility, partly because of continued increases in salaries and pensions, as well as energy and bus contracts. ''People say can't you make any other cuts,'' he said. But, he said, ''We're going to have to make some personnel decisions because that is where the bulk of the money is.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (96%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MERIT PAY (77%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); LEGISLATION (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



845 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: P.&G. and Colgate Post Higher Sales in Quarter

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Procter & Gamble Company and the Colgate-Palmolive Company increased sales in the last quarter, as a tentative recovery in consumer spending helped both consumer goods leaders post better-than-expected results on Thursday. 
 Profit at Procter & Gamble, the maker of Tide laundry detergent and Pampers diapers, fell less than analysts had anticipated.
 A higher profit at Colgate, the toothpaste and household cleaner maker, was stronger than analysts had expected.
 ''This idea that this economy is causing everyone to trade down is a little bit overly general and too broadly applied,'' Procter & Gamble's chief executive, Robert A. McDonald, said during a conference call.
 Still, the companies stood by their 2010 profit forecasts as they digested new concerns like the effect from the devaluation of the bolivar in Venezuela.
 ''It's encouraging, there's no question,'' a JPMorgan analyst, John Faucher said of the results from the two companies. As raw material prices rebound, however, ''they're not going to put up this kind of upside without some acceleration in top-line growth going forward,'' he said.
 Procter & Gamble said sales should rise more than it previously expected this year. 
 Both companies have felt pressure since late 2007 as consumers bought less expensive products to save money. But Colgate's portfolio has been more resistant to such trends because most of its products, like toothpaste and soap, are less discretionary.
 Procter & Gamble said it earned $4.66 billion, or $1.49 a share, down from $5 billion, or $1.58 a share, a year earlier. Analysts, on average, expected it to earn $1.42 a share.
 Sales in the period, which ended Dec. 31 and was the second quarter of Procter & Gamble's fiscal year, rose 6.4 percent, to $21.03 billion, from $19.76 billion, falling short of analysts' forecast of $21.07 billion. Organic sales, which exclude the effect of currency fluctuations, acquisitions and divestitures, rose 5 percent, as did the volume of goods sold.
 Shares of Procter & Gamble, which is based in Cincinnati, rose 87 cents, to $61.68.
 Colgate said it earned $631 million, or $1.21 a share, up 27 percent from $497 million, or 94 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Sales in the period, Colgate's fourth quarter, rose 11.4 percent, to $4.08 billion from $3.66 billion, while the volume of goods sold increased 3 percent.
 Analysts, on average, expected a profit of $1.18 a share on $4.08 billion in sales.
 Shares of Colgate, which is based in New York, fell 47 cents, to $79.92.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Procter & Gamble's Downy fabric softener at a New York store. P.& G. posted better-than-expected quarterly earnings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (90%); POLISH & SANITATION GOODS MFG (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CLEANERS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); DEVALUATION (73%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (97%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (94%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (97%); PG (NYSE) (97%); CL (NYSE) (94%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (97%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (97%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (97%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



846 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Budget Would Close 20 Fire Companies

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Declaring that the city's finances were ''between a rock and a hard place,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled a $63.6 billion budget proposal Thursday that would eliminate 20 fire companies, increase the cost of truck parking on Manhattan streets by 25 percent and close four swimming pools and a center for the homeless.
 The budget would also slash money for libraries, reduce the number of caseworkers who deal with H.I.V. and AIDS, eliminate nurses from 32 elementary schools with fewer than 300 students and raise caseloads for workers for the Administration for Children's Services. 
 And that may be the good news.
 In tones that frequently ranged from exasperation to frustration, Mr. Bloomberg warned that if Gov. David A. Paterson's proposed state budget is enacted, the city could face an additional shortfall of $1.3 billion -- and be forced to lay off 8,500 teachers, 3,150 police officers and many others -- on top of the cuts included in Thursday's proposal. 
 The mayor, who gave many labor unions generous contracts during his first two terms, adopted a far tougher stance on union contracts and pension and health benefits. And, against a backdrop of high unemployment and overall economic uncertainty, he worried what would happen if Wall Street's fortunes were to worsen or if interest rates were to climb.
 ''The trouble is, there are some things beyond our control,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, after a 45-minute slide show presentation at City Hall. ''The world has changed and we have to make a choice.''
 Mr. Bloomberg also said that anyone counting on another federal stimulus package or government bailout would be foolish. ''There's not going to be a Hail Mary pass coming from the federal government,'' he said.
 Over all, Mr. Bloomberg's proposed budget is $560 million larger, or less than 1 percent, than the current one, due chiefly to increases in pension and health benefit expenditures that have ballooned under his watch. To accommodate those rising costs, the mayor has been forced to look for cuts elsewhere.
 But city officials and lobbyists expect that the final budget, which is meant to close a $5 billion deficit, will look quite different by the time the next fiscal year begins on July 1.
 Albany is the biggest wild card. The only way the city could make up for the shortfall projected under Mr. Paterson's plan would be to lay off thousands of employees, close 15 senior centers and end financing for 500 soup kitchens and food pantries, the mayor said.
 Still, proclaiming a worst case is standard practice at the outset of the annual budget tug-of-war. It is unlikely that lawmakers will embrace all of Mr. Paterson's proposed cuts during an election year, especially since the Assembly and Senate leaders are both from the city. Even so, it is also unlikely that the city will persuade the state to restore all the cuts, so the compromise will probably lead to some job cuts.
 Another crucial factor is how organized labor responds to what Mr. Bloomberg described as a ''Hobson's choice.'' Repeating the line that the city must ''do more with less'' about half a dozen times, Mr. Bloomberg urged teachers to accept a smaller annual raise in their next contract (2 percent, versus the 4 percent received in some years), which is now being negotiated -- or else face the possibility of major layoffs. 
 Mr. Bloomberg also proposed that unions consider longer-term changes in pension and health benefits that could eventually save the city hundreds of millions of dollars a year. When asked Thursday whether his position signaled a new era of hard-line bargaining with labor, Mr. Bloomberg did not mince words.
 ''The bottom line is we don't have any money,'' he said. Fiscal watchdogs, who have often criticized the Bloomberg administration's spending habits, said that the mayor could have been even tougher.
 ''Why offer the teachers any raises for two years?'' said Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative-leaning research group. ''As the mayor said himself, the city was more than generous during the good times. If keeping it to 2 percent will save $517 million, why not keep it to nothing and save nearly twice that, giving city taxpayers at least a little room for threatened state cuts and/or for more Wall Street turmoil?''
 Unions, not surprisingly, reacted coolly to the plan.
 ''The mayor has just released a financial plan that unfortunately would, if enacted, severely curtail services,'' said Harry Nespoli, chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee. ''With difficult financial problems facing all levels of government the only 'solution' being proposed -- as usual -- is to freeze or reduce government services. ''
 Mr. Bloomberg, however, ruled out any tax increases, even if Albany approves draconian cuts. City residents, particularly the wealthy, had been taxed too much, and too often, he said.
 Though there are no tax increases in this year's budget, there are a host of new fees that will make it more expensive to do business with the city.
 Vendors who are awarded contracts over $100,000, for example, would be required to pay a new processing fee ranging between $150 and $375. Closing four pools and shortening the outdoor pool season would save $1.4 million; the increased parking rates would generate $4.1 million and closing the homeless center would save $2.4 million, according to budget documents. About $36.4 million would be saved by shutting 20 fire companies. There are more than 300 engine and ladder companies in the city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Bloomberg said of the city's finances, ''There are some things beyond our control.'' (POOL PHOTO BY FRANK FRANKLIN II) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



847 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats Vote To Raise Debt Ceiling

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate voted on Thursday to raise the nation's debt limit to $14.3 trillion, a $1.9 trillion increase that would allow the government to keep borrowing to cover operations beyond the November election and into early next year. 
 The measure, which is always politically unpopular but essential to avoid default, needed 60 votes to pass and got not a vote more, for a 60-to-39 tally. The House is expected to pass the measure next week.
 Republicans were united in opposition as a protest of Obama administration spending programs. But Democrats, in debate, noted that most of the debt reflected the accumulation of annual deficits in the years that Republicans controlled the White House and Congress until 2007.
 Before approving the debt increase, Democrats sought to give themselves some political cover by voting on two amendments intended to signal their commitment to fiscal discipline as the country emerges from a recession. 
 On Thursday, the Senate approved one of the amendments, for a so-called pay-go law (for ''pay as you go''). It would mandate that Congress offset the cost of new tax cuts or expansions of entitlement programs like Medicare with tax increases or spending cuts, to avoid adding to the deficit.
 The measure, which also needed 60 votes under Senate rules, was approved by a 60-to-40 vote that also fell along party lines. Many Republicans objected that the requirement would make it too hard to cut taxes, which is why they let a previous law lapse in 2002 when their party controlled Congress.
 The Senate had rejected the other amendment on Tuesday. It would have created a commission of lawmakers and administration officials to recommend by December ways to reduce the long-term debt; the recommendations would have been subject to an up-or-down vote in Congress. A majority of 53 senators supported the commission proposal, but it needed 60 votes.
 With its defeat, President Obama said in his State of the Union address on Wednesday night that he would establish a debt-reduction task force by executive order.
 While he could not bind Congress to act on its recommendations, the House and Senate Democratic leaders committed in writing on Thursday to putting the recommendations to a vote by the end of the year. Their agreement, outlined in a letter from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who brokered the deal, would have the Senate vote first; the House would follow only if the Senate passed a debt-reduction package by a supermajority of at least 60 votes.
 The Treasury told Congress that without an increase in the current $12.4 trillion debt limit, its authority to borrow in international markets would end by late February. But getting to Thursday's vote required weeks of negotiations between House and Senate leaders.
 They wanted to raise the ceiling enough to avoid putting their members through another such vote before the midterm elections. But fiscally conservative Democrats demanded, in return for their support, votes on both the pay-go and commission proposals.
 The House speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, and other liberal Democrats opposed the commission idea, fearing it would force deep cuts in Medicare and Social Security benefits. And senior Senate Democrats opposed the pay-go proposal, saying it exempted too many tax cuts from the stricture against adding to annual deficits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph Biden and Speaker Nancy Pelosi before the State of the Union speech. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); DEBT CEILING (91%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



848 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Don't Smirk, Sundance's Roots Do Show

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

DATELINE: PARK CITY, Utah 

 BODY:
The spin was hotter and the vibe somewhat warmer at the 26th annual Sundance Film Festival here, while the movies were much the same, with good and bad entries promising much and sometimes delivering. Each year the festival, which ends Sunday, takes over this ski town in northern Utah, flooding the snowy, icy streets with some 40,000 attendees. This year, though, it also has a new director in John Cooper, a low-key, long-time Sundancer who took over from another veteran, Geoffrey Gilmore. 
 For almost as long as it's been in existence, the Sundance Film Festival has fended off criticism that it has gone Hollywood. It's no surprise then that its public face, Robert Redford, who created the Sundance Institute in 1981, used Mr. Gilmore's departure for the company that runs the Tribeca Film Festival to declare again Sundance's independence. It's going back to ''our roots,'' Mr. Redford said at a press conference. 
 A cynic might note that this return to independence was convenient given the economic crisis: in the last few years half the six major studios have shut down or absorbed their specialty divisions. It is, after all, easier to declare your independence from Hollywood when Hollywood has already walked out the door. 
 But let us not be (entirely) cynical. For all its problems, the festival remains one of the most important in the world and the foremost launching pad for American independents. The stars were still out in formation, as were the paparazzi, who gave chase to Sandra Bullock (or maybe it was Nicole Richie) one afternoon on the town's main drag. Yet this year there was also more room for micro-budget filmmakers in a new section called Next. 
 The idea that Sundance needs to create a sidebar for movies made on the cheap might sound paradoxical if not ridiculous, as was noted by a filmmaker, Daniel Harris, writing on the blog for the rival Slamdance Film Festival (slamdance.com), which takes place at the same time in Park City. ''To sidebar low-budget films for their lack of finance makes them look like Special Olympics kids competing in the big show,'' Mr. Harris wrote, before going on to encourage filmmakers to boycott the Sundance sidebar in question. As a matter of fact, the Next section did not register as an afterthought: audiences and distributors gravitate to selections with famous names, but as the mostly full theaters show, attention and love -- if not always the large deals and press -- are lavished on no-name titles too.
 Nothing attests to Sundance's commitment to off-Hollywood more than its documentary selections, which year to year remain its most qualitatively consistent suit. That much was reconfirmed by ''Last Train Home,'' a beautifully shot, haunting and haunted large-scale portrait by Lixin Fan about an astonishing migration involving 130 million Chinese workers who each year travel by train, boat and foot to return home for New Year's. Working in a classically unobtrusive documentary style, Mr. Fan, who was an associate producer on an earlier Sundance entry, ''Up the Yangtze,'' conveys the enormity of this exodus while bringing you close to a family whose fraught efforts to reunite -- the parents work in a city, the children are in the country with a grandmother -- are symptomatic of a deeper struggle affecting China. 
 Two other documentaries would make an apt if harrowing pairing: ''The Tillman Story,'' about the death of Pat Tillman, the National Football League star turned Army Ranger, and ''Restrepo,'' about an Army outpost in Afghanistan. Directed by Tim Hetherington and the journalist Sebastian Junger, who served as their own cameramen, ''Restrepo'' takes you deep into the trenches and almost as deep into the mind-set of a platoon that was stationed in Afghanistan's Korengal Valley in 2008. The movie doesn't push an obvious agenda. But because it establishes such an intimate view of the soldiers, it nonetheless provides plenty to consider, whether the filmmakers are trudging alongside the platoon as it tramps over eerily quiet dirt roads or frantically scrambles during a firefight where bullets and screams eventually give way to tears. 
 Directed by Amir Bar-Lev, ''The Tillman Story'' continues the push, initiated by Tillman's family, to uncover the details surrounding his death from so-called friendly fire in Afghanistan in 2004. Even a familiarity with the case -- the military initially claimed that he died during a heroic charge against the Taliban, a spurious narrative embraced by reporters and President George W. Bush -- does not blunt the power of the movie, which makes its arguments with talking-head interviews, news reports, home movies and redacted documents. The movie hits its political notes well, but its finest achievement is to humanize Tillman, an unassuming man who read Noam Chomsky and, aware that his death might be exploited, smuggled a document to his wife in which he clearly indicated he did not want a military funeral. 
 The pleasure of discovering other people is one of the great appeals of documentary, as was also touchingly evident in ''Jean-Michel Basquiat: The Radiant Child,'' from Tamra Davis. Using videos she shot of Basquiat (who died from a drug overdose in 1988) as her creative jumping-off point, Ms. Davis creates a vivid if somewhat rough-edged portrait of an artist who was also a friend. Her familiarity with Basquiat, his struggles as a black artist working in an overwhelmingly, at times hostile white world -- there's a nasty swipe here from the art critic Hilton Kramer that should make your stomach turn -- and especially her sense of the downtown New York scene from which Basquiat emerged in the late 1970s give the movie a vibrant pulse. 
 Ms. Davis's intimate knowledge of the art and music world of that legendary scene gives her documentary the authentic tang missing in a fiction movie about a different 1970s legend, the rock band the Runways. Directed by Floria Sigismondi, ''The Runaways'' traces the rough and ready days of this all-girl band, primarily through the relationship between its two star teenage attractions, Joan Jett (Kristen Stewart, very fine) and Cherie Currie (Dakota Fanning, often just as good). While the movie opens on a suitably punk note with a close-up of a drop of menstrual blood hitting the ground, a hopeful sign of some bad-girl attitude, it soon settles into a middle-of-the-road groove turning down the volume when it should go to 11.
 Another blast to the 1970s past comes from ''Night Catches Us,'' the strong feature debut of Tanya Hamilton. Set in Philadelphia in the summer of 1976, the movie centers on two uneasily reunited former members of the Black Panthers, Marcus (Anthony Mackie), a recently returned wanderer, and Patricia (Kerry Washington), who stayed to nurse her wounds. Unfolding in the aftermath of the black power movement but before the mainstreaming of identity politics, the movie wonderfully weds the political to the personal. Like some of the recurrently finest selections at Sundance, this one makes sensitive use of its locations, including the wooden house where Patricia lives and, in one stunning moment that encapsulates cinema's ability to capture loveliness in a single image, sits on her front porch in a bright orange dress. 
 The theater wasn't completely full for Ms. Hamilton's first public screening, which was disappointing given that Mr. Mackie, who's emerging as one of the finest actors working in American movies right now, and Ms. Washington, alone should have filled the house. (Mr. Mackie has been at the festival before, appearing in ''Half Nelson.'') Sundance might be the premiere showcase for independent cinema, but it's hard to encourage people to stray from the familiar. 
 Witness another sturdy directing debut, this one from the actor Mark Ruffalo, whose terribly titled and wanly received ''Sympathy for Delicious'' is a laugh-spiked drama about a disabled D.J., Dean (a terrific Christopher Thornton, who wrote the script), who wakes one day with the power to heal. Either a modern-day Jesus or a fraud, Dean embarks on a wholly original adventure that is by turns moving, funny and surreal. 
 Mr. Ruffalo, who plays a priest in ''Sympathy for Delicious,'' also shows up in ''The Kids Are All Right,'' from Lisa Cholodenko, the director of ''High Art'' and ''Laurel Canyon,'' who returned to Sundance with her best work yet. Pitched between drama and comedy, the movie centers on two lesbians, exquisitely played by Annette Bening and Julianne Moore, whose world is rocked, with equal amounts of dread and pleasure, when their children (Mia Wasikowska and Josh Hutcherson) contact their biological father, a sperm donor turned restaurateur (Mr. Ruffalo, as excellent as the rest of the cast). With characters who are as honest as the movie's Los Angeles locations, Ms. Cholodenko has created a generous, nearly note-perfect portrait of a modern family that is, as its title suggests, political and insistently independent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Last Train Home,'' Lixin Fan's documentary, is about Chinese workers who travel each year by train, boat and foot and then return home for New Year's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIXIN FAN)(C1)
THE RUNAWAYS: Kristen Stewart, right, as Joan Jett and Dakota Fanning as Cherie Currie.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MOIR/APPARITION)
RESTREPO: A scene from Tim Hetherington and Sebastian Junger's documentary about an Army outpost in Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OUTPOST FILMS)
THE KIDS ARE ALL RIGHT: From left, Annette Bening, Julianne Moore, Josh Hutcherson, Mia Wasikowska and Mark Ruffalo. (PHOTOGRAPH BYSUZANNE TENNER)
 NIGHT CATCHES US: Anthony Mackie and Kerry Washington in Tanya Hamilton's film about two former Black Panthers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNEKE SCHONEVELD/HUMAN RACE PRODUCTIONS)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); SKIING (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (72%); BUDGETS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (60%); OLYMPICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: KRISTEN STEWART (79%); SANDRA BULLOCK (58%); DAKOTA FANNING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



849 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: A New Grasp of Complexities in Washington, and of Blame

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE; Emma Graves Fitzsimmons, Steve Friess, Dan Frosch and Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Last month, Mary Haas, a 62-year-old retiree in Wisconsin, told pollsters that she disapproved of President Obama's handling of the economy. While his State of the Union address did not change that opinion, Ms. Haas did say Thursday that she now appreciated his frustrations about dealing with Congress, particularly on health care.
 ''Even though I didn't vote for him, I really want him to succeed,'' she said. ''It's in the country's best interest. But he can't do it alone.''
 Mr. Obama did not appear to change many minds with his address. In about two dozen interviews after the speech, people who last month told a New York Times/CBS News pollster that they supported the president's handling of the economy and health care continued to do so, while those who said they disapproved were still doubtful that he would make much progress. 
 But, according to those interviewed, Mr. Obama succeeded in making Congress and the vague bureaucratic entity known as Washington at least an equal partner in the blame for failing to reform the health care system or stanch a bleeding economy. And he found sympathy for the magnitude of his challenges. 
 ''He has expectations that maybe no other president has had before,'' Ms. Haas said. ''He's bound to be disappointed, as is the American public. But it's not all his fault, either.''
 The president's proposals for directing $30 billion in credit toward small businesses won him some praise, as did his proposals to build a generation of nuclear power plants. But what seemed to resonate most were his stern words to Congress. 
 ''He was right to scold,'' said Kathy Steiner, a lawyer in White Plains who voted for Mr. Obama. ''He has not done one thing in which he has not been open to compromise.''
 ''He was echoing a lot of peoples' frustration,'' she said. ''He certainly echoes my frustration. I'm really sick of the whole thing. They all need to step up to the plate and do what's right, and worry about the next election at the next election.'' 
 But Ms. Steiner, 52, added that she blamed the American people as well as Congress. ''If we believe that Congress is the obstacle at this point, we have to send that message, that we're not interested in hearing them bicker,'' she said. ''We're interested in finding a solution. Despite our dire straits, we need to say, we know this is hard, but take a step in the right direction. We can't let our frustration and anger prevent us from moving forward.''
 The people interviewed on Wednesday night and Thursday were originally questioned in a New York Times/CBS News telephone poll conducted Dec. 4 through Dec. 8. The poll of 1,031 adults throughout the United States had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 In that poll, 50 percent approved of the way the president was performing his job, and 39 percent disapproved. While nearly half of poll respondents said the economy, along with jobs, was the most important issue facing the country, 47 percent approved of the president's handling of the economy, and 43 percent disapproved.
 For some of the respondents, that disapproval did not budge. 
 ''He talks about the recession being over,'' said Gene Bell, 83, a retired livestock inspector in Phoenix, who voted for Mr. Obama but now disapproves of his handling of the economy. ''Well if it is, that must be on Wall Street.''
 Many of those interviewed, even those who support the president, appreciated his appeal to bipartisanship. 
 ''I do think we have to find a way for everybody to work together,'' said Amy Holt, 39, a Republican in Hoover, Ala., who continues to disapprove of Mr. Obama's handling of health care and the economy.
 But many also expressed little confidence that he would be able to do so.
 ''I like to hope for the best in people, but I deeply think the Republicans are not going to be any help and they're going to block everything, even if the end result would be better for the country,'' said Amanda White, 24. ''You can see it,'' she said. ''They don't clap, they don't stand, they're very put-offish. It's rude.''
 Ms. White, a Democrat who a month ago said she disapproved of the president's handling of health care, said this week that she hoped he would aggressively push the issue. Unable to find a full-time job after she graduated from Illinois State University last May, she now works part-time as a waitress and substitute teacher and lives with her parents. 
 But Ms. White was bounced from their health care policy when she turned 22 and now pays about $200 a month out-of-pocket for coverage -- a problem Congress has been trying to address with provisions that would let adult children stay on their parents' policies longer.
 John Rue of Wyoming, Minn., a general manager of a bus service that provides rides for people with special needs, was among those who liked the idea of expanded credit for small businesses. With more low-income people eligible for service, he has more business than his fleet can handle, but the company has not been able to buy additional buses or hire more drivers because banks have turned it down for loans three times in two years. 
 But Mr. Rue, 41, a Republican who voted for Mr. Obama, said he barely bothered to listen to what the president said on health care. Not that the issue does not affect him -- his health premiums rose 25 percent last year, he said, and his wife's doubled, and neither can afford to insure their children on the plans they get from work. But he has little confidence that anything will change.
 ''I really did shut down and didn't listen too much, because that's all we've been getting drilled at us for so long, and it goes nowhere,'' Mr. Rue said. ''There's too much even with his own party that they don't agree with him on. Nothing's going to happen.''
 Laverne Bolton, 75, a retiree in Summerville, S.C., who did not vote for Mr. Obama, said that as much as she appreciated his frustration at the lack of bipartisanship, he was not without blame.
 ''One thing he said last night that bugged me to no end is that he's going to have a monthly meeting with Republicans,'' she said. ''Why hasn't he been doing that for the last 12 months? He excluded them. He should have been working with the whole Congress.''
 Dwayne Poeppel, 47, an unemployed manager from Snohomish, Wash., who voted for Senator John McCain, Mr. Obama's Republican opponent, disapproved of Mr. Obama laying the blame for many of his administration's problems on eight years of policies of the Bush administration. 
 ''He really came out very defensive, very against Republicans, antagonistic,'' he said. ''He was blaming people for what he inherited, which was a contrast to what he said he was going to do when he got into office. It was like, 'Here we are again.' It was very disheartening.''
 Still, Mr. Poeppel said, he found the president as likeable as ever, and believed he was sincere.
 ''I think he genuinely wants to get these jobs and the economy going,'' he said. ''But there are so many parties involved, it has got to be a tough job. Even though I don't have a job, I wouldn't want that one.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KATHY STEINER: A 52-year-old lawyer from White Plains. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZY ALLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
JOHN RUE: A 41-year-old general manager of a bus service in Wyoming, Minn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN BRISSON-SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 GENE BELL: An 83-year-old retired livestock inspector in Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); POWER PLANTS (63%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



850 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Thoughts on the State of the Union

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama Says Nation Can't Afford the Politics of No'' (front page, Jan. 28):
 President Obama did not back away from any issue, including partisan politics. He threw down the gauntlet, and what individual senators and representatives do now will determine just who has a soul.
 We will continue to be concerned, however. When you are dealing with a political party that has said, in words and deeds, that its primary goal, if not its only goal, is to bring down a presidency, then you are dealing with politicians who cannot be diverted from their goal, who will deny that such a goal denigrates their leadership ability, who will not suddenly see the light, and who cannot be shamed into working seriously for the people they represent. 
 Republicans and some Democrats have lowered the bar more than ever on partisan politics. The G.O.P. itself has developed into a clique of mean-spirited, disrespectful politicians whose hunger for power and position is blatant and unyielding.
 Until we get past partisan politics, put the brakes on lobbying and reverse the recent Supreme Court ruling allowing corporations, foreign and domestic, to buy candidates, we will never have a government that truly works for the betterment of its citizens.
 Patricia A. Weller Emmitsburg, Md., Jan. 28, 2010
 To the Editor: 
 I have long felt that it is dangerous to vote for candidates based on one's perception of their characters alone, neglecting to examine their political philosophies and to think about the long-term ramifications of those philosophies. 
 As an early supporter of John Edwards, I have only recently come to believe that no matter how appealing a candidate's political philosophy may be, if his character prevents him from exercising true leadership, he doesn't deserve our votes. We need leaders who possess both strength of mind and strength of character. During his State of the Union address, President Obama exhibited both.
 The feeling I was left with after the address was one of relief that we finally have a good man at the helm. I may not agree with every one of his policies, but I approve of the direction he is heading in and was struck by how intelligent and remarkably sane he seems, especially given the unreasonableness that characterizes Washington these days. 
 His call for common sense was a breath of fresh air. He inspired confidence, something all of us need, especially during these trying times.
 Elizabeth Fuller Peterborough, N.H., Jan. 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 After months of delay that the opposition had been planning for all along, and after months of hopeful, patient waiting by constituents like me, it appears that the Democratic majority in Congress is ready and willing to capitulate completely because of the loss of a single seat in the Senate.
 In his State of the Union address, President Obama promised that he would not give up the fight for health care reform. If the Democratic Party wants to maintain its bid to represent its voters, both the president and Congress must find a way to pass meaningful health care reform legislation now. 
 Failure to do so will only prove, even to those like me who have consistently participated in the voting process, that our belief in the democratic system of representation has become ridiculously naive and outmoded, and that our energies would be better directed elsewhere.
 Indra Levy Palo Alto, Calif., Jan. 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 President Obama's State of the Union address had a high point when he pledged that anyone with a ''better approach that will bring down premiums, bring down the deficit, cover the uninsured, strengthen Medicare for seniors, and stop insurance company abuses, let me know.'' 
 Thank you, Mr. President. The answer is the reform supported by 65 percent of the public and even 59 percent of physicians. It's remarkably simple, and the nation has already had 44 years of successful experience with it in financing health care for our elderly and the totally disabled. 
 It is, of course, Medicare-for-all, single-payer, not-for-profit national health insurance. Its superiority lies in excluding profit-seeking insurance companies and Big Pharma from controlling and undermining our health system. This is your answer, Mr. President.
 Quentin Young Chicago, Jan. 28, 2010
 The writer, a doctor, is national coordinator of Physicians for a National Health Program.
 To the Editor:
 When Barack Obama was elected, the opposition resolved not to eat anything put in front of it. But instead of being a firm parent and putting his foot down, the president chose to negotiate. Anyone with children knows that this approach often backfires. To gain the upper hand, parents have to make unpopular calls and stick with them. Give an inch and the battle is lost.
 In his State of the Union address, President Obama again laid down the rules. Let's see if the kids pay attention. 
 Cindy Schreibman New York, Jan. 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 As much as I appreciate President Obama's commitment to provide openly gay people with the opportunity to fight and die in Iraq and Afghanistan, I would also really appreciate the right to get married to my partner here in America. That is the real ''right thing to do.'' 
 Eden Wofsey New York, Jan. 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 I was thrilled to hear President Obama's call for an end to the sibling rivalry between Democrats and Republicans. Unfortunately, we are so stuck in the sibling-rivalry paradigm that President Obama's words will end up making no impact. We like loving or hating Rush Limbaugh too much to give him up. Heartbreaking. 
 David von Schlichten Latrobe, Pa., Jan. 28, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Second Year'' (editorial, Jan. 28):
 I couldn't decide whether I would tune in to the State of the Union address. Like millions of Americans, I am middle-aged, unemployed and beyond frustrated with politics as usual. From the sense of hope and optimism I felt just one year ago, I now felt cheated. Where was the Barack Obama who ran for office? Where were the space and time the American people said they would give him to make change? 
 I did listen to the address, however, and I thought, ''Finally, he's back.'' I can only hope that his ability to govern matches his gift for oratory. 
 Sherry Kirschenbaum West Orange, N.J., Jan. 28, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SCHMELLING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); APPEALS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (53%); SUPREME COURTS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



851 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Interests Help Cuomo Gain a Big Edge in Cash

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
As Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo readies his candidacy for governor, one industry is helping him amass a huge fund-raising advantage: real estate.
 New records show that even as the industry has confronted its worst crisis in decades, developers, construction executives and real estate lobbyists have given millions of dollars to Mr. Cuomo, providing one in every five dollars over the past six months. 
 The money has come as Mr. Cuomo's office has been flooded with complaints about construction in new developments, especially from buyers who are trying to break their sales contracts, claiming that builders are not living up to their promises.
 An analysis by The New York Times shows that the real estate industry was the top giver to Mr. Cuomo over the past three years as he amassed $18 million, leaving him with a five-to-one advantage over Gov. David A. Paterson, a fellow Democrat. The donors include some of the biggest names in the business, many of whom are grappling with intense pressures in the current slowdown. 
 Since June, the top three executives of Tishman Speyer Properties -- Jerry I. Speyer; his wife, Katherine G. Farley; and his son Robert Speyer -- have donated a combined $151,000 to Mr. Cuomo as they struggled to avoid defaulting on the Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village apartment complexes, efforts that eventually failed.
 Shaya Boymelgreen, who built more than 2,400 apartments throughout the city during the building boom over the past decade, gave $8,000 while his empire was unraveling as he struggled to build several projects. Kent Swig, who built a $3 billion real estate portfolio but now says he faces personal bankruptcy, gave $15,000 over the past two years. 
 Other prominent givers included Lloyd Goldman, an owner of the World Trade Center site; Bruce C. Ratner, the Atlantic Yards developer; Steven Roth, the chief of Vornado Realty Trust; Stephen M. Ross, the chief of the Related Companies; and Richard Lefrak, whose family developed Lefrak City in Queens and owns tens of thousands of apartments.
 ''Cuomo got a ton of money from people working in the real estate sector,'' said Bill Mahoney, research coordinator for the New York Public Interest Research Group, a government watchdog organization, who helped analyze the data. ''You don't usually see numbers that high coming from one business sector to one particular candidate, especially as someone who raises as much money as he did. It's definitely not the norm.''
 Over the past six months, Mr. Cuomo raised $6.8 million, 17 percent of which came from the real estate industry. The industry accounted for 20 percent of his $3.9 million in donations from individuals.
 The outpouring of support is in some ways unsurprising. Although he has not officially declared his candidacy, Mr. Cuomo is viewed as all but certain to enter the race for governor, and polls indicate he would be a formidable candidate.
 The donations could create thorny issues for Mr. Cuomo as he pursues the governor's office. Many of the major developers' projects, like the World Trade Center and Atlantic Yards, are likely to come before the next governor.
 And in his role as attorney general, Mr. Cuomo has responsibility over the offering plans of condominium and cooperative apartments, real estate investments, mortgage fraud cases and complaints about construction flaws that violate what developers originally promised. Nearly all plans for new residential development must be approved through his office.
 Aides to Mr. Cuomo said he had set up a rigorous screening process that requires donors to certify that they have had no matter before his office for the past three months. They say he keeps a firewall between his campaign and the operation of his office, and goes further than any other state official in vetting contributors.
 A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo's office attributed the financial support from the real estate industry to Mr. Cuomo's work in real estate before his election in 2006. (He worked at the Island Capital Group, a real estate investment fund and developer of luxury marinas.)
 ''Any suggestion that members of the real estate industry exert improper influence over this office's real estate finance unit is laughable and belied by the facts,'' said the spokesman, John Milgrim. ''The bureau is staffed with professionals of the highest caliber and integrity, and the bureau itself is a model for other regulators.''
 But some lawyers representing clients in cases involving construction problems with new condo developments and contract troubles say it is extremely difficult to get Mr. Cuomo's office to respond to the problems.
 In late 2006, residents at the Newswalk building in Brooklyn, a Boymelgreen project, contacted the attorney general's office about construction problems, said Michael Rogers, a resident and board member. On March 26, 2007, the residents' lawyer wrote a letter to Mr. Cuomo with specific complaints. His office took no action, and the residents sued the developer in November 2007. 
 In July 2008, they filed a formal complaint with the attorney general. For almost a year, they received no response, and in the summer of 2009, Lewis A. Polishook, an assistant attorney general, told the residents that the office would not get involved in a dispute that was in litigation. 
 ''They've told us, 'You're on your own,' '' Mr. Rogers said.
 Mr. Cuomo accepted three donations totaling $8,000 from Boymelgreen-related companies between Jan. 15, 2008, and May 11, 2009. After an inquiry from The Times, Mr. Milgrim said that Mr. Cuomo would return the money.
 Mr. Cuomo's aides strongly defended the work of the Real Estate Finance Bureau, which handles the complaints, and said Mr. Cuomo had increased its staffing by 23 percent since taking office, making it larger even than the Division of Economic Justice, which oversees Wall Street and consumer problems.
 Part of the challenge is that many buyers are seeking to break contracts on properties that have plunged in value since the real estate bubble burst. That has left the attorney general's office wading through thousands of complaints trying to sort the legitimate from the rest.
 From the 1,640 complaints and 473 escrow dispute cases the bureau received last year, it resolved almost 1,500 complaints and nearly 300 escrow disputes, Mr. Milgrim said. Full investigations were opened in about 150 matters, and the office resolved 50. Ten were resolved through litigation or a settlement, and the rest were addressed through mediation.
 Lorraine Nadel, a real estate lawyer who made a small donation to Mr. Cuomo in the past, said that she received many complaints from New Yorkers who wanted her to contact the attorney general about getting out of condo contracts, and that she tried not to bother the office with most of them. But she sought its help on a recent case involving a developer of a luxury condominium project in Union Square who she said misrepresented the number of signed contracts he had obtained from buyers when he received approval from the attorney general to go ahead with his plans.
 She got no resolution. ''They're sort of the gatekeeper of condo and co-op offering plans,'' she said. ''Now that we are all filing complaints, they really need to step in and resolve it, and they're not.''
 Mr. Milgrim, the aide to Mr. Cuomo, said the office reviewed the case and found no fraud.
 Mr. Cuomo declined to be interviewed for this article. The issues facing the real estate bureau do not seem to be affecting the office's civil rights division, which handles some mortgage fraud cases.
 Meghan Faux, director of the foreclosure prevention project at South Brooklyn Legal Services, praised what she called the newfound responsiveness of the civil rights division. And James Lewis, director of policy and organizing at Changer, a nonprofit group that counsels homeowners, said that when he approached the office last spring about foreclosure rescue scams, the staff met with him immediately and resolved the problem in the summer.
 ''I don't think we could have wished for any more,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The real estate industry, which Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo helps oversee, has been his top giver, even as it has hit hard times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Top Real Estate Donors to Cuomo: Some developers who have given generously since 2007 (A17)
Developer Dollars: Even in a real estate bust, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo has drawn millions in contributions from real estate interests, outpacing former Gov. Eliot Spitzer's donations from the industry. (Sources: New York Times analysis of state campaign contributions
 New York Public Interest Group) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); LAWYERS (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (64%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (64%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%); STEVEN ROTH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



852 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: At Florida Stop, Obama Announces Rail Investment

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Michael Cooper contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla. 

 BODY:
President Obama sought to rekindle the fire of his presidential campaign on Thursday as he left behind his political challenges in Washington and began a series of trips around the nation to show that his administration is striving to rebuild the economy and accelerate sluggish job growth.
 A day after delivering his State of the Union address, Mr. Obama came to Florida to announce the investment of $8 billion in high-speed rail projects in 13 major corridors, which he said would provide a down payment for the most significant advance in transportation since the Interstate highway system was built more than a half-century ago. 
 On Friday, the president plans to head to Baltimore where, aides said, he will urge small businesses to increase their hiring with tax credits for new employees. Each of the stops is intended to tie Mr. Obama to programs that may be more popular locally, like a railway from Tampa to Orlando, than the economic stimulus plan has been over all. 
 ''The worst of the storm has passed, but I think all of you understand, the devastation remains,'' Mr. Obama told an audience at the University of Tampa. ''One in 10 Americans still can't find work. That's why creating jobs has to be our No. 1 priority in 2010.''
 As the White House dispatched cabinet secretaries and top administration officials across the country to amplify the president's economic message, Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. arrived here to embrace a tangible program: a high-speed rail line that could create 23,000 jobs over four years.
 The town-hall-style meeting before a crowd of 3,000 people took on the air of a campaign rally, which was by design, as Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden sought to remind Americans that they are focused on trying to lower unemployment and improve the economic conditions. It was a rare joint appearance outside of the capital for the president and vice president.
 ''It's always nice to get out of Washington -- It is! -- and spend a little time with the people who sent me,'' Mr. Obama said, soaking in applause from a friendly audience. He took several questions from the crowd, which his advisers said he would start doing more, as they try to present him as a problem solver.
 The president also renewed his call for unity in Washington, declaring, ''I want the Republicans off the sidelines.'' He spoke only briefly about health care, but he said ''my door remains open'' if Republicans want to find areas of agreement.
 At first blush, the sentiment may have sounded like a Pollyannaish view, yet aides said it was intended to place pressure on Republicans in a midterm election year. But several Republican leaders pushed back on Thursday, saying Mr. Obama and Democrats in Congress have walked in lockstep for the first year of his presidency.
 The politics of local initiatives, like the rail projects, was far from uniform. That point was underscored by Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, who stood at the steps of Air Force One to greet Mr. Obama. For about 27 seconds, the president gripped the governor's hand, clutched his arm and exchanged pleasantries. But they did not hug, unlike during a visit a year ago. Ever since then, a picture of the embrace has been used in advertisements against Mr. Crist, who is embroiled in a fierce Republican Senate primary against Marco Rubio. 
 The administration announced the $8 billion awards to coincide with the president and vice president's trip here on Thursday. For months, states have been competing for the financing.
 Most of the money, officials decided, will go toward improving existing rail service. More than a billion dollars, for instance, will go to speed train travel between Chicago and St. Louis to up to 110 miles per hour -- faster than it is now, but a far cry from the kind of bullet trains that zip along at speeds of more than 150 m.p.h. in Japan and Europe. Two of the largest shares of money are being distributed for investments in bullet-train projects.
 The administration said that a $2.25 billion award would help California make a small down payment on its ambitious $45 billion plan to build trains that can go 220 miles an hour. The stimulus money will go to buy right-of-way, build track, and do engineering and environmental work. 
 Another $1.25 billion will go to build 84 miles of track from Tampa to Orlando, which would allow trains to travel at up to 168 m.p.h., the first leg of a corridor that is eventually expected to go to Miami. If the state and federal financing hold, the first phase of the railway is scheduled to be completed by 2015.
 ''It's the biggest thing since Walt Disney World for the I-4 Corridor,'' said Representative Kendrick B. Meek, Democrat of Florida, who is running for Senate this year. 
 The president's trip to Tampa on Thursday marked his third visit to the state since taking office. The high-speed rail project represented a considerable investment into the state, which the Obama-Biden ticket carried in 2008.
 Before any suggestions could be made about any potential political benefits of the awards, Mr. Biden told the audience here that both Florida and California have something in common: Republican governors. 
 ''We didn't pick this based on politics. I mean this sincerely,'' Mr. Biden said. ''We're picking the places that make the most sense, have the highest density, are ready to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at a town-hall-style meeting on Thursday in Tampa, Fla., where he answered questions from the audience. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (76%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



853 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Bank Tax Is Knotty Issue For New York's Senators

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
President Obama's proposal to impose new taxes on large banks is testing the ties New York's United States senators have with Wall Street, a pillar of the state's economy and a major source of their campaign dollars. 
 The plan that Mr. Obama introduced is intended to help the federal government recover the billions of dollars it handed out to struggling financial institutions last year as the White House and Congress sought to avert an economic collapse. 
 Mr. Obama used his annual address to Congress on Wednesday night to make a case for the plan, as he acknowledged the public's unhappiness with the bank bailout at a time of high unemployment and rapidly growing federal budget deficits.
 ''I know Wall Street isn't keen on this idea,'' Mr. Obama said of his proposal, which is expected to raise $117 billion over 12 years. ''But if these firms can afford to hand out big bonuses again, they can afford a modest fee to pay back the taxpayers who rescued them in their time of need.''
 But in New York, the plan has created something of a quandary for Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand, two moderate Democrats who are on the ballot this year and who have largely refrained from the kind of anti-Wall Street rhetoric used by liberals in the party.
 While Mr. Schumer is said by associates to be troubled by some of the attacks being leveled at Wall Street, he embraced the president's proposal the day it was offered. He argues that the original bailout package actually requires the president to try to recover the bailout money from financial institutions if the money is not paid back after a certain period.
 But Mr. Schumer's position has surprised and frustrated his allies on Wall Street, where he has raised vast sums of money through his career, both for himself and for the national party. 
 Indeed, of the roughly $8.7 million he has collected since his last election, in 2004, about $1 million came from the financial industry, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan government watchdog organization.
 At the same time, Mr. Schumer, a member of two committees with jurisdiction over the industry, has been a strong advocate for Wall Street, having been among the first officials in Washington to promote the rescue package as the financial crisis rocked the nation in late 2008.
 A lobbyist for Wall Street interests, who asked not to be identified because he did not want to be seen as questioning Mr. Schumer's approach, said financial leaders are sympathetic to the tough political climate Mr. Schumer finds himself in, with public sentiment turning against Wall Street. But the lobbyist said people in the financial world are nonetheless frustrated that the senator has not waged a more vigorous public defense of his hometown industry.
 Responding to such concerns, Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Mr. Schumer, said that while the senator believes that many practices on Wall Street must be reformed, ''he will work to make sure the corrections will be productive, not vindictive, in order to create a stronger financial services industry in the future.''
 In many respects, the issue has been much trickier for Ms. Gillibrand, who, unlike Mr. Schumer, is facing the prospect of a strong challenge this year and who has also turned to Wall Street to raise money through the years.
 The senator has yet to say whether she supports or opposes the Obama proposal, even as her potential rival for the Democratic nomination, Harold E. Ford Jr., positions himself as a defender of Wall Street, where he is getting much of his initial support. Instead, Ms. Gillibrand has proposed giving banks a break on the tax based on how many loans they are providing to small businesses.
 By contrast, Mr. Ford, a former congressman from Tennessee who moved to New York three years ago to take a job in banking, flatly rejects the tax. He argues that it could severely damage the city's financial industry and, in turn, undermine New York's economy. 
 Mr. Ford's position is more closely aligned with that of Bruce A. Blakeman, a Long Island Republican running for Ms. Gillibrand's seat. ''It's an attack on the financial industry,'' Mr. Blakeman said of the tax. ''I am going to be an outspoken advocate for our most important industry.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



854 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Like the Crisis Of the '70s, But Angrier

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced his new budget plan on Thursday, ushering in what is sure to be a period of unity among New York's many disparate groups. No doubt, they will all agree on a single course of action to get the city through its fiscal distress: Cut some other guy's program, but don't ask me to make a sacrifice.
 This has been the prevailing civic ethos for a while. The spirit of '76 is long dead. That would be 1976, and the year or so that preceded it. It was the era of New York's great fiscal crisis, when city government teetered -- a popular verb back then -- toward bankruptcy. 
 What came to the rescue were a suspension of usual resentments, an acceptance of shared pain and an uncommon unity among government leaders, labor unions, ordinary citizens and bankers. Yes, children, for one shining moment bankers were seen as good guys.
 None of that spirit is in evidence today, either in the city or in that repository of wisdom known as Albany.
 When the governor said spending on health and education had to be reduced because they make up huge slabs of the state budget, the bellowing was predictable. Can't be done, said hospital groups and health care unions. Not a chance, said school boards and teachers' associations.
 The same can be expected now with the mayor's proposal to manage a multibillion-dollar city deficit. In fact, it has begun.
 Mr. Bloomberg told teachers to accept a pay raise of 2 percent, which is less than they'd like but is at least an increase, or watch 2,500 of their colleagues apply for unemployment. Something's got to give, this line of reasoning goes, and it is better that everyone in the lifeboat go on shorter rations than to have lots of people tossed into the sea.
 The immediate reaction from the president of the teachers' union? No way.
 Perhaps Mr. Bloomberg is merely posturing in advance of labor negotiations. Perhaps the union leader, Michael Mulgrew, is, too. But it's hard to detect the spirit of '76.
 The mayor may also be posturing in his warning about what lies ahead should the governor's budget for the state become a reality.
 ''It's an unfair budget'' that would slice state aid to New York City by $1.3 billion, Mr. Bloomberg said on Thursday. He would have no choice, he said, but to fire 18,500 city workers, including 8,500 teachers, 3,150 police officers and 1,050 firefighters. Garbage would be collected less often. Streets would not be swept. Hundreds of soup kitchens and food pantries would get not a penny from the city. And so on.
 This is a familiar tactic: cry havoc, and let slip the dogs of budget war. Mr. Bloomberg could just as easily have said that he would have to let 18,500 file clerks go. With all respect to file clerks, putting them on the chopping block doesn't focus minds as wondrously as a threat to lay off teachers and uniformed workers.
 OBSCURED in the discussion of layoffs, which the mayor said ''appear unavoidable,'' is the fact that the belts must be tightened now in part because Mr. Bloomberg had greatly loosened them. The municipal payroll carries tens of thousands more people than it did when he took office in 2002, another time of fiscal crisis.
 He began by reducing the work force. But like most of his predecessors, he then let the numbers climb. The cost of salaries and benefits has zoomed on his watch to $35.7 billion a year, the city's Independent Budget Office says. That is an increase of 59 percent, more than double the rate of inflation.
 Speaking of salaries, the word derives from ''sal,'' Latin for salt. As you know, the mayor wants to reduce salt consumption in the city. The same cannot be said about that salt derivative, salaries -- certainly not the salaries of those who helped get him re-elected. He has put a bunch of them in high-paying city jobs, including his campaign communications director, Howard Wolfson, who will earn $200,000 a year.
 Mr. Wolfson's purpose in life would seem to be to keep Mr. Bloomberg front and center in national politics. The mayor insisted the other day that he had ''no plans'' to run for president. Then again, he used to say that he had no plans to seek a third term at City Hall.
 If nothing else, padding the payroll with campaign loyalists hardly sets an example for city workers living under a budget-slashing guillotine. But it is consistent with the spirit of 2010, a far, far cry from the spirit of '76.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); HOSPITALS (65%); FOOD CHARITIES (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



855 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Cyberattack Threat on Rise, Executives Say

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
A study based on responses from 600 computing and computer-security executives in 14 countries suggests attacks on the Internet pose a growing threat to the energy and communication systems that underlie modern society. 
 The findings, issued Thursday by the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the computer-security company McAfee, echoed alarms raised this month by Google after it experienced a wave of cyberattacks.
 ''One of the striking things we determined is that half of the respondents believe they have already been attacked by sophisticated government intruders,'' said the study's director, Stewart A. Baker. ''It tells us that this is a serious problem right now.'' 
 More than half of the executives called their own nation's laws inadequate for deterring cyberattacks. Half identified the United States as one of the three most vulnerable countries; the others were China and Russia.
 Moreover, the United States was identified most frequently as a potential source of cyberattacks, followed closely by China. Just over a third of the respondents named the United States when asked which country was of most concern ''in the context of network attacks against your country/sector'' and almost as many said it was China, more than any other country on a list of six. China's security measures also came in for praise.
 ''It was striking how much of an outlier China is on a number of measures,'' said Mr. Baker, a Washington lawyer who formerly was assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security and general counsel for the National Security Agency. ''They have confidence in their government, and they are adopting security measures at a higher rate than other countries.''
 The report focuses on ''critical infrastructure'' -- essential networks and services that include the financial system, transmission lines for gas and electricity, water supply, and voice- and data-communication networks. At the heart of these systems are networks known as Scada systems, which are the basis for manufacturing, power generation, refining and other basic operations in advanced economies. (The acronym stands for supervisory control and data acquisition.)
 The increasing use of Internet-based networks ''creates unique and troubling vulnerabilities,'' the report says. In the past, the data used by such industrial systems was mostly carried on proprietary networks that were often better insulated from the outside world. 
 The advantage of the Internet lies largely in the lower cost of developing systems because of the low cost of commodity products. But the report's authors stopped short of calling for a complete separation between those systems and the open Internet.
 ''Remote access to control systems poses a huge danger,'' said Phyllis Schneck, McAfee's vice president for threat intelligence. ''We must either protect it appropriately or move it to more private networks and not use the open Internet.''
 The report found considerable pessimism among the executives, whose responses were anonymous. 
 ''Remarkably, two-fifths of these I.T. executives expected a major cybersecurity incident (one causing an outage of 'at least 24 hours, loss of life or ... failure of a company') in their sector within the next year,'' the report said. ''All but 20 percent expected such an incident within five years. This pessimism was particularly marked in the countries already experiencing the highest levels of serious attacks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



856 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Survey of Executives Finds a Growing Fear of Cyberattacks

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
A survey of 600 computing and computer-security executives in 14 countries suggests that attacks on the Internet pose a growing threat to the energy and communication systems that underlie modern society. 
 The findings, issued Thursday by the Center for Strategic and International Studies and the computer-security company McAfee, echoed alarms raised this month by Google after it experienced a wave of cyberattacks.
''One of the striking things we determined is that half of the respondents believe they have already been attacked by sophisticated government intruders,'' said the study's director, Stewart A. Baker. ''It tells us that this is a serious problem right now.'' 
 More than half of the executives called their own nation's laws inadequate for deterring cyberattacks. Half identified the United States as one of the three most vulnerable countries; the others were China and Russia.
 Moreover, the United States was identified most frequently as a potential source of cyberattacks. 
 ''When they were asked which country 'you worry is of greatest concern in the context of network attacks against your country/sector,' 36 percent named the United States and 33 percent China -- more than any other country on a list of six,'' the report said.
 China's security measures also came in for praise from the executives.
 ''It was striking how much of an outlier China is on a number of measures,'' said Mr. Baker, a Washington lawyer who formerly served as assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security and as general counsel for the National Security Agency. ''They have confidence in their government, and they are adopting security measures at a higher rate than other countries.''
 The report focuses on ''critical infrastructure'' -- essential networks and services that include the financial system, transmission lines for gas and electricity, water supply, and voice- and data-communication networks. At the heart of these systems are networks known as Scada systems, which are the basis for manufacturing, power generation, refining and other basic operations in advanced economies. (The acronym stands for supervisory control and data acquisition.)
 The increasing use of Internet-based networks ''creates unique and troubling vulnerabilities,'' the report says. In the past, the data used by such industrial systems was largely carried on proprietary networks that were often better insulated from the outside world. 
 The advantage of the Internet lies largely in the lower cost of developing systems because of the low cost of commodity products. But the report's authors stopped short of calling for a complete separation between those systems and the open Internet.
 ''Remote access to control systems poses a huge danger,'' said Phyllis Schneck, McAfee's vice president for threat intelligence. ''We must either protect it appropriately or move it to more private networks and not use the open Internet.''
 The report found considerable pessimism among the executives, whose responses were anonymous. 
 ''Remarkably, two-fifths of these I.T. executives expected a major cybersecurity incident (one causing an outage of 'at least 24 hours, loss of life or ... failure of a company') in their sector within the next year,'' the report said. ''All but 20 percent expected such an incident within five years. This pessimism was particularly marked in the countries already experiencing the highest levels of serious attacks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); LAWYERS (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



857 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: In Santa Clara, Uneven Fight Over a New Stadium for the 49ers

BYLINE: By PHIL YOST

 BODY:
As Santa Clara ponders whether to play ball with the San Francisco 49ers and the National Football League, the money, glamour and traditional political power line up on the pro-stadium side. The stop-the-stadium campaign will run on e-mail, shoe leather and indignation about rich owners and athletes. 
 The audience for all of it will be the voters among the 117,000 residents of Santa Clara, who will decide in an election likely to occur on June 8 whether the city puts up $114 million to help the 49ers leave Candlestick Park in San Francisco and play in Silicon Valley beginning in 2014.
Stadium battles have taken place across the country as teams depart outdated facilities for new homes -- and customarily ask the public for relocation assistance. In the Bay Area, the Oakland A's have been looking south, first to Fremont and now to San Jose. The possibility of the Oakland Raiders sharing a stadium with the 49ers has been bandied about. 
 The stadium proposal goes to the ballot with support from five of the seven members on the Santa Clara City Council, as well as the city's civic establishment. And unions are hungry for work. Proponents promise thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in municipal revenue. 
 ''Santa Clara will see a huge economic impact,'' said Jed York, president and chief executive officer of the 49ers. 
 Aiming to play David to this Goliath is an ad hoc group called Santa Clara Plays Fair. Seeing the deal between the 49ers and the city firm up early in 2007, residents who had been opposing it at City Council meetings turned their post-meeting conversations into organized resistance. 
 The diverse group united around beliefs that the stadium would sap the city treasury and that professional teams should pay their own way. ''Stadiums don't make money,'' said Bill Bailey, the group's treasurer. ''N.F.L. teams make money.'' 
 An electrical engineer, Mr. Bailey said he had been a contented Santa Clara resident for two decades before this proposal. 
 Other principal members have a longer history of protest. Karen Hardy, a high school math teacher and an unsuccessful candidate for the City Council, was instrumental in a grass-roots campaign in 1992 that in a referendum upended the city's approval of a card club. 
 Hoping their e-mail list of fewer than 200 residents is just a hint of much broader opposition, Mrs. Hardy and Mr. Bailey are heartened that a survey done for a local television station in June showed that 62 percent of the 500 people questioned agreed that using public money to build a stadium would be a ''bad idea.'' 
 A lack of resources makes a shoestring campaign the opponents' only option. Their campaign flier can be found on the Web, with a plea to print it out, make copies and pass it around.
 ''We'll be doing precinct walking, but our financial resources are such that we cannot afford a mailer,'' Mr. Bailey said. No allies with deep pockets are in sight. 
 Money is not an issue for stadium supporters. Their mail campaign opened with a glossy color brochure picturing 54 supporters -- the bulk of the city's business, civic and political notables. The celebrity bonus came in the form of support from Brandi Chastain, a World Cup soccer and Olympic star and an alumnus of Santa Clara University. 
 The pro-stadium campaign kickoff on Saturday filled the ballroom in the city's convention center with more than 600 supporters, who snacked on hamburgers, chips, soda and popcorn while being energized by bands and cheerleaders. 
 Mayor Patricia M. Mahan said she was confident her constituents wanted a stadium. ''The primary reason I support it,'' she said, ''is because from Day 1, I had heard support coming back to me.'' 
 The 49ers have had a presence in Santa Clara since 1988, when they moved their headquarters and practice facilities there. But it was not until 2006, after a decade of failed negotiations over a replacement for Candlestick Park, that team officials decided that the best site for a new stadium was across the street from their offices, the city-owned overflow parking lot of the theme park California's Great America. 
 Situated on the city's north side, the site is reached from broad streets, three freeways and two rail transit lines. The team also noted where its fans live -- one-tenth in San Francisco and one-third in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties combined. 
 The 49ers began wooing the city. ''I probably did 50 different living room chats,'' said Mr. York, the 49ers' president. He plans to keep it up. Negotiations with the city eventually produced a term sheet on costs, ownership, and operations, which the Council approved 5 to 2 in June. 
 The $937 million stadium, which would seat 68,500, would be designed and built by the 49ers, with the team covering any cost overruns. Without tapping its general fund or raising a citywide tax, Santa Clara would contribute $114 million -- $42 million from its redevelopment agency, $20 million from the city's electric utility to move a substation, $17 million in bonds for a parking garage and $35 million from an increase in the room tax at neighborhood hotels. 
 ''It's a really positive deal for our city,'' said Lisa Gillmor, a former Council member and spokeswoman for the pro-stadium group Santa Clarans for Economic Progress. ''We're not taking anything from our general fund.'' 
 The city would receive a guaranteed $40 million in rent over 40 years and an estimated $155 million from other events, like concerts. A ticket surcharge would provide up to $250,000 a year for programs for youths, seniors and libraries. The Santa Clara Unified School District would benefit from an additional $26 million in revenues from 2012 to 2026, said its superintendent, Steve Stavis. 
 A study commissioned by the 49ers projects a $249 million annual boost to the regional economy, with 2,650 game-day jobs and 2,230 jobs from additional economic activity. 
 Opponents ask how a stadium used for 10 to 12 home games a year, and an estimated 17 other events, can be a financial bonanza. Roger Noll, an economist at Stanford, shares their skepticism. 
 The argument that sports facilities are an engine of economic development, he said, ''has been completely debunked in the scholarly literature.'' 
 As for the effect on city services, opponents contend that additional spending by the redevelopment agency will postpone or cancel $67 million in payments to the general fund that would have been paid in future years. 
 In San Francisco, meanwhile, the attitude at City Hall is wait and see. If financial obstacles keep the team in San Francisco, a stadium proposal at the Hunters Point Shipyard redevelopment might be revived. 
 ''We have at least a few years of development we can do before we would need the land otherwise set aside for a potential stadium site,'' said Michael Cohen, director of the Office of Economic and Workforce Development. 
 Mr. York said he was focused only on Santa Clara as he looked for ''a permanent home for the 49ers in Northern California.'' 
 Wherever that is, San Francisco will be a permanent part of the team's name. Even opponents do not object. 
 ''While I don't agree with the deal that's been cut,'' said Jamie McLeod, one of the two Council members in opposition, ''I like the fact they're here. It's a great organization.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Candlestick Park is currently the home of the San Francisco 49ers, but a vote in Santa Clara could determine if the team moves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Left, a rendering of the proposed stadium in Santa Clara, and, right, the proposed site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK E. MARTIN/SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS, VIA A.P.) (A17A) MAPS: Freeways and rail lines lead to the site of a proposed stadium. (A17B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); SPORTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BASEBALL (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (56%); OAKLAND A'S (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



858 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Leader Offers a Glimpse of the Future

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD

 BODY:
DAVOS, SWITZERLAND -- China gave the world a glimpse of the next generation of Chinese leaders on Thursday when Li Keqiang, widely expected to be the next prime minister, vowed that his country would act swiftly to shift from an over-reliance on exports toward greater domestic consumption.
 But, in a half-hour speech at the World Economic Forum here, he carefully avoided any mention of the issue that was foremost on the mind of many in the audience: the undervalued Chinese currency. He offered no clues as to whether or when Beijing might allow the renminbi to appreciate against the dollar. 
 Mr. Li opened with a clear signal that China, which has weathered the global financial crisis better than most, did not consider it to be over. ''The storm has not subsided,'' he said.
 Against the backdrop of growing calls for protectionism in the United States, Mr. Li appeared eager to emphasize a pledge to remake the Chinese economy in a way that would help address, at least over the longer run, China's gaping trade surplus with the United States and its lesser trade gap with Europe.
 ''As we stand at a historic juncture,'' Mr. Li said, ''we must change the old way of inefficient growth and transform the current development model that is excessively reliant on investment and exports.''
 ''We will focus on boosting domestic demand,'' he added, listing a number of initiatives from providing a stronger health care safety net, which would lessen the need for Chinese families to set aside large amounts of savings, to subsidizing farmers who buy household appliances. ''The growth in domestic consumption in China will not only drive growth in China but also provide greater markets for the world.''
 At the same time, Mr. Li repeatedly emphasized the importance of international cooperation, from continued coordination on fiscal stimulus to a global accord on climate change, something that economists in the audience welcomed as a sign of a China that would stay open and engaged. 
 Mr. Li, who is currently the executive deputy prime minister of China, is expected to take over from Prime Minister Wen Jiabao in the leadership change scheduled for 2012; the prime minister is the second-highest government official in China after the president. His speech to the world's political and business elite in Davos was his first high-profile international appearance. A year ago, it was Mr. Wen who took the podium here. 
 There were traditional references to Confucius in his address, but also shades of novelty. He took the stage in confident strides, smiling and waving to the packed auditorium. He said he would to press ahead with pro-market changes, break monopolies and introduce more competition. China would ''allow the market to play a primary role in allocation of resources,'' he said.
 In the middle of the speech he even made a veiled and seemingly conciliatory reference to the issue at the heart of the simmering spat with Google.
 ''Efforts need to be made to improve intellectual property rights,'' Mr. Li said.
 China's rapid emergence and its diplomatic dance with the United States on everything from trade conflicts to climate change to geopolitics is shaping up as one of central issues on the global stage in the coming months and years.
 The risk of a backlash in the United States over the Chinese currency was on stark display in Davos. Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the Financial Services Committee of the House of Representatives, called for actions to ''level the playing field'' at a time when America's jobless rate has reached 10 percent.
 ''China has been very uncooperative and the currency is a major part of it,'' Mr. Frank said in an informal interview here. ''They want the world to be open to them but refuse to be open to the world.''
 The threat that Western countries might retaliate by blocking China's exports is one of the leadership's biggest concerns. ''Trade protectionism practices will only exacerbate the economic crisis,'' Mr. Li said, urging a swift conclusion of the Doha trade round.
 ''The international financial crisis is not over,'' he warned, ''and the foundations of the economic recovery are still weak.''
 He noted that more than half of Chinese exports were manufactured by foreign companies in China and that China had now become the second-biggest importer in the world.
 Members of the U.S. administration here acknowledged the positive role China had played in bolstering growth and welcomed signs that the leadership was getting serious about restructuring the economy.
 ''I think China is moving in that direction,'' said Robert Hormats, U.S. Under Secretary of State for Economic, Energy and Agricultural Affairs.
 Mr. Li also hinted at why China had recently moved to curb its feverish growth with tighter monetary policy. The country needs to ''strike a balance,'' he said, between ''steady and fast growth'' and ''properly managing inflationary risks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FAMILY (76%); MONOPOLIZATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (91%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



859 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Building Haiti's Economy, One Mango at a Time

BYLINE: By PAUL COLLIER and JEAN-LOUIS WARNHOLZ. 
Paul Collier, an economics professor at Oxford, was a special adviser on Haiti to the United Nations secretary general in 2009. Jean-Louis Warnholz, the managing director of a business consulting company, was an economic adviser to Haiti's prime minister in 2009.

 BODY:
IN an astonishing outpouring of generosity, nearly half of American households have donated money to help Haiti recover from the recent earthquake. The United States government and other governments around the world, for their part, have sent thousands of relief workers and have pledged $1 billion so far. But Haitians need something more fundamental than relief from the present situation; they need jobs that they can count on for years ahead. For this, the private business sector is essential. Luckily, business leaders are meeting now in Davos, Switzerland, and Haiti is prominent on their agenda. 
 Haiti is by far the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, and yet it need not be so, because unexploited economic opportunities abound there. Some of the best mangoes in the world grow in Haiti -- though too many of them rot, offshore from the world's largest market, for want of adequate roads and well-governed ports. Excellent coffee is grown in the Haitian mountains, but much of it is sold informally across the border to coffee producers in the Dominican Republic, who reap most of the profits. 
 Haiti also has many qualities attractive to tourists: a warm climate; magnificent white-sand beaches and turquoise water; Tortuga, the famous pirate island off the northern coast; and the Citadel, a mountain fortress erected after Haiti's independence in the early 19th century to fend off colonial powers, now a World Heritage site. Still, it is one of the least visited places in the Caribbean. 
 The Hope II trade pact with the United States, signed in 2008, granted Haiti duty-free access to the American apparel market for the next decade. Already, as a result of the deal, many garment factories situated along Haiti's eastern border (so as to use Dominican electricity and ports) have become profitable and competitive with Chinese garment makers. But light manufacturing could be much bigger in Haiti -- if the Haitian government and donors would credibly commit to providing functioning roads, electrical grids and ports, and if outside private capital would invest, patiently, in Haitian businesses. 
 Poverty and a history of coups and trade embargoes have pushed Haiti's reputation as a place to do business to near the bottom of the global pile, alongside countries like Afghanistan, Somalia and Iraq. But Haiti is far safer and offers far more market opportunities than those conflict-ridden nations. 
 The obvious difficulty in Haiti is that its economic center, Port-au-Prince, is now in shambles. Private investors are naturally wary of jumping into a market too soon, before it is lively enough to provide certain kinds of support. After all, many businesses can be profitable only if other businesses exist alongside them. Ships don't sail directly from Haiti to Florida because there aren't enough goods to warrant dedicated routes. In the meantime, without reliable routes for direct export of goods, investment in production in Haiti is stymied. 
 Even within a single manufacturing sector, it helps to have many businesses operating together. Garment factories, for example, cluster together, because they share a common need for support services. In Haiti, the cluster of garment makers has been too small even to keep repair shops in business; it can take weeks to fly in a technician to fix a broken sewing machine. So, production costs are high because there are too few investors, and there are too few investors because costs are so high. 
 The way to address this chicken-and-egg problem is for individual private investors to coordinate with one another. This would not be a new strategy; in the 19th century, the American West was developed not as a process of gradual diffusion but in spasms of local investment booms, financed by enthusiastic outsiders. The earthquake could usher in such a boom in Haiti. 
 The World Economic Forum in Davos provides an opportunity for businesses that might invest in Haiti -- international fashion brands, hotels and coffee chains, for example -- to coordinate with companies that provide logistics and markets, so that together they could make mutual commitments. The foundation for such coordination has already been laid -- by Bill Clinton, who led 200 international investors to Haiti last October. As a result of this effort, international chains like Best Western and Choice Hotels started building new hotels in Haiti. 
 The earthquake has, of course, changed opportunities in Haiti, but it has not necessarily reduced them. The American construction industry is mired in deep recession and so has the excess capacity to meet Haiti's sudden need for low-cost housing, roads, bridges and other structures. If American construction firms can harness Haitian labor to reconstruct (safer) homes, then the challenge will be to lure other businesses in their wake so that temporary jobs in reconstruction are replaced by long-term jobs in manufacturing, agriculture and tourism. 
 In meeting this challenge, banks and private venture capital also have an important role to play. Haiti needs generous venture capital that encourages some firms to move in first. George Soros, the investor and philanthropist, has recognized this need by committing $25 million for smart investments that catalyze Haiti's competitive advantages. Many more such commitments are needed. 
 For now, even public sources of risk capital like the World Bank's International Finance Corporation and Britain's Commonwealth Development Corporation have no special provision for the kind of coordinated pump-priming investment that's required in Haiti. Most public capital goes to emerging market economies where private investment no longer needs to be encouraged. Haiti, with its genuine opportunities and immediate needs, provides a chance for public finance organizations to find new relevance. It is also a chance for private business to show it can take a major role in meeting the gravest human needs. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NANCY STAHL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (87%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); COFFEE & TEA (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); COFFEE FARMING (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); COFFEE (73%); BEACHES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); HISTORIC SITES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); MOUNTAINS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SOMALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



860 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Firm Brings Gene Tests To Masses

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: REDWOOD CITY, Calif. 

 BODY:
The new movie ''Extraordinary Measures'' is based on the true story of a father who starts a company to develop a treatment for the rare genetic disease threatening to kill two of his children before they turn 10. 
 Now, a Silicon Valley start-up is making the bold claim that it can help eradicate that disease and more than 100 others by alerting parents-to-be who have the carrier genes. 
 The company, Counsyl, is selling a test that it says can tell couples whether they are at risk of having children with a range of inherited diseases, including cystic fibrosis, Tay-Sachs, spinal muscular atrophy, sickle cell disease and Pompe disease (the one afflicting the children in the movie). 
 Once informed, Counsyl says, couples can take steps like using in vitro fertilization with genetic testing of the embryos, to avoid bearing children who would have the diseases, many of which are incurable and fatal in childhood. 
 Some genetic testing of prospective parents is done now, but only for a few diseases like cystic fibrosis and Tay-Sachs, and only for certain ethnic groups. Each test can cost hundreds or even thousands of dollars. 
 Counsyl's test, which analyzes DNA from saliva samples, costs $349 for an individual or $698 for a couple. Similar tests from others are on the way, experts say. The trend shows that new technology could make possible widespread screening for the risk of passing on rare diseases, something that was simply not practical before. 
 ''As a genetic counselor, I've been waiting for this for a really long time,'' said Elena Ashkinadze, who does prenatal genetic counseling at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in New Brunswick, N.J. 
 But some experts caution that it is too soon to know how accurate Counsyl's test actually is, in part because neither the company nor any outside reviewer has published papers on its approach and results. 
 And some experts say the company's Web site overstates the case. The company calls its product the Universal Genetic Test, for example, even though there are thousands of genetic diseases, not just the 100 Counsyl tests detect. 
 ''Everyone hopes there is a test that will provide a perfect baby, but the reality is that that single magic bullet doesn't exist,'' said Dr. Joe Leigh Simpson, a geneticist and obstetrician and dean at Florida International University College of Medicine. 
 Still, Counsyl executives say the company, which has been operating quietly for a few months, has already administered thousands of the tests. The test is already offered by more than 100 fertility clinics around the country, and Counsyl says some insurers are paying for it. 
 ''For the same price that we would be checking cystic fibrosis, they are checking cystic fibrosis but also 100 other diseases,'' said Dr. R. Ian Hardy, medical director of the Fertility Centers of New England. Dr. Hardy said two couples at his clinic who had taken the Counsyl test had already found they could be at risk of having a child with a genetic disease. 
 The diseases Counsyl screens for are rare and caused by a mutation in a single gene. For most of the disorders, people with one mutated version of the gene and one normal version do not have the disease and often are not aware that they are carriers of the mutation. But if both parents have one mutated gene, each of their children will have a one in four chance of inheriting two mutated copies and having the disease. 
 Some experts say that such screening could save countless parents from heartache, and society from the millions of dollars it can cost to care for even one severely ill person over a lifetime. 
 But some experts foresee new issues. So many people would be carriers for at least one disease that genetic counselors might be overloaded. Some critics, meanwhile, say such testing is a step toward designer babies, in which parents choose the traits of their children. There is even some concern that having fewer babies born with these diseases will mean a reduced effort to develop treatments. 
 Counsyl's test is among many genetic tests that are now being marketed directly to consumers over the Internet, advising them on everything from their risk of hair loss to their baby's athletic prowess. These tests generally do not have to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration. 
 Michael S. Watson, executive director of the American College of Medical Genetics, said that many mutations even in disease-causing genes do not produce serious or even detectable illness. So people might be needlessly alarmed by some of the results of the test. 
 Counsyl executives say 35 to 40 percent of people tested are carriers for at least one disease in the test. In about 0.6 percent to 0.8 percent of cases, they say, both members of the couple are carriers for the same disease. 
 Fertility centers have an economic incentive to promote the test because one of the best ways to avoid having a baby with a genetic disease is to test embryos created by test-tube fertilization before implanting them. This pre-implantation genetic diagnosis costs $3,000 or more, in addition to the roughly $10,000 fee for in vitro fertilization. 
 But fertility clinics account for only a minority of births. So to spread its test, the company is offering it over the Internet. 
 ''One of our goals is to make this like the home pregnancy test,'' said Ramji Srinivasan, 28, the chief executive of Counsyl. 
 But while the company says that insurers generally cover the test, at least one -- Aetna -- offered a caveat. Aetna said its California licensee had erred in covering it, when the decision should have been made nationally. The company said it had not decided whether it should cover the test nationwide.
 Counsyl took advantage of the release of ''Extraordinary Measures'' to begin a publicity blitz, issuing a press release last Friday full of endorsements from fertility doctors as well as others, who include Henry Louis Gates Jr., the Harvard professor of African-American studies, who called the test a ''genuine breakthrough for minority health.'' 
 Some of the endorsers, including Mr. Gates, are advisers to the company and have been given stock options. 
 Samantha Stack of Seattle had one perfectly healthy daughter, but her second daughter died last April, at 7 weeks old, from spinal muscular atrophy. She and her husband had not known they were both carriers of a genetic mutation linked to that disease. 
 Ms. Stack has become an evangelist for Counsyl, participating in sales calls and talking to patient groups. She, too, has been given stock options. 
 ''I wish this test was available a couple of years ago,'' she said. ''It might have saved my family the heartbreak we had.'' 
 Counsyl relies mainly on a so-called DNA chip, which can simultaneously test for thousands of genetic variants in a person's DNA. It is the same technology used by companies like 23andMe, which provide information to people about their own disease risks. But Counsyl has customized the technology to test the mutations involved in rare inherited diseases. 
 Counsyl was started in 2007 by a group of friends at Stanford. It was housed at first in the apartment that Mr. Srinivasan shared with his older brother, Balaji S. Srinivasan, now 29, who was teaching statistics at Stanford and doing genomics research.
 Ramji Srinivasan was then a student at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, after having been an equity research associate at Morgan Stanley.
 The company, now with a suite in an office complex, has about 20 employees and the usual start-up ethos. Ramji Srinivasan, the chief executive, has a cot in his office for all-nighters and quick naps. 
 Cartons containing the company's saliva collection kits for customers are stacked high in the middle of the office, and the company's laboratory consists of two tiny rooms. The laboratory director is located on the other side of the country, in New York, where she runs a pathology laboratory at Bellevue Hospital. 
 The executives declined to identify financial backers of the company, although they suggested some were wealthy people who had been personally affected by genetic diseases. 
 A filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission last year said Counsyl had raised $2.7 million from 21 investors. The Srinivasan brothers said the figure had grown substantially since then and that the company was already profitable. 
 Balaji Srinivasan, the company's chief technology officer, said the founders, who do not yet have children but intend to, saw themselves as social entrepreneurs on a campaign. 
 ''The goal is not to maximize revenue but to bring the benefits to humanity,'' he said. ''Nothing is more relevant than making sure your child doesn't die from a preventable disease.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ramji Srinivasan, pointing, chief executive of the genetic screening company Counsyl, and Eric Evans, the chief science officer.
 Counsyl screens for more than 100 genetic diseases, like Tay- Sachs and cystic fibrosis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETIC DISEASES (93%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (92%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); GENETIC SCREENING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); STARTUPS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); DNA (77%); TRENDS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (73%); MOTOR NEURON DISEASES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (72%); DNA TESTING (70%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (68%); INSURANCE (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (60%); ETHNIC GROUPS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



861 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Securitization Went Awry Once Before

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Real estate securitization was one of the great innovations in finance in the last quarter-century. In an unprecedented way, it allowed vast sums of money to go into the real estate market from people who traditionally did not take part in it.
 But the people making the loans did not need to worry if they would be repaid, and in the end the entire edifice collapsed.
 Now, with the securitization market nearly dead, getting that market going again is vital to providing Americans with mortgage loans. Securitization may need to be reformed a little, but it remains critically important to a well-functioning economy.
 That is the conventional wisdom now, at least among many bankers and economists. 
 Most of it is right, except that ''unprecedented'' part. Although few people now remember it, another wave of private securitizations once altered the real estate landscape, particularly in New York but also in Chicago and some other American cities. 
 That wave ended pretty much like this one did.
 That fact should raise questions about whether the securitization machine should be patched up and back in business to operate without government guarantees.
 Perhaps, instead, we should find a way to get banks and other long-term investors, like insurance companies, to make -- and keep -- most of the real estate loans that are needed in society.
 The original wave of securitizations took place in the 1920s, when the United States went on the greatest building boom ever. Many investors saw how rapidly real estate prices were rising and wanted in on the action. The builders and brokers were only too happy to oblige.
 To be sure, the securitizations were not as complex as the ones invented in recent years, but they were not all simple either. Most were bonds backed by one commercial building whose construction was being financed, but there were also pools of residential mortgages. Some of the bonds included warrants for partial ownership of the building, and some were convertible into stock.
 There was even something similar to the exotic C.D.O.'s, or collateralized debt obligations, that failed so spectacularly. Those securities were not directly backed by real estate, but were instead supported by other securities that had such backing. One 1920s bond was called a ''collateral trust'' security, with a claim on a building's profits but not on the building itself.
 ''Easily obtainable financing via public capital markets corresponded with an urban construction boom,'' reported William N. Goetzmann and Frank Newman in a paper just released by the National Bureau of Economic Research, titled ''Securitization in the 1920s.''
 ''Regulation and centralization were glaringly absent,'' they add. ''Ultimately the size, scope and complexity of the 1920s real estate market undermined its merits, causing a crash not unlike the one underpinning our current financial crisis.''
 Yet the lessons of that boom and bust have largely been ignored. Everyone remembers the 1920s and the stock market crash of 1929, but there has been little data collected on what happened to real estate securities or even on how large a market it was. It turns out that real estate securities constituted a major market, and began to falter before stocks did.
 ''The breakdown in their valuation, through the mechanism of the collateral cycle, may have led to the subsequent stock market crash of 1929-30,'' they wrote. 
 If Ben Bernanke had been thinking of that, do you think he might have been more hesitant to say that the subprime mortgage crisis had been ''contained'' in 2007? 
 The paper by Professor Goetzmann, the director of the International Center for Finance at Yale University's School of Management, and Mr. Newman, a former Yale student who is now an analyst for the hedge fund Protege Partners, appears to be the first to delve into the available data, which Mr. Newman had to dig up.
 Professor Goetzmann, who teaches both real estate finance and financial history, said he grew interested in the subject after coming across old real estate bonds and wondering what the story was behind them.
 The story, it turns out, is one intrinsic to the New York skyline. From 1929 through 1931, according to data compiled by Mr. Newman, 128 buildings that were 70 or more meters in height, or about 230 feet, were completed in New York City. That was the most ever.
 Over the last three years, 2007 through 2009, the figure was 87. That was the highest number in nearly 30 years.
 It is notable that the record construction period continued for two years after the Depression had begun, just as cranes dotted the New York skyline last year even as the worst recession since World War II went into its second year. Big buildings take time to plan and to build. Once begun, the best course may be to finish, even if the economy offers little hope for leasing out the space.
 Today, those who say securitization is necessary to get the economy moving again argue that the process brings together investors and those with the capacity to make loans, and that banks simply do not have enough capital to make the needed loans.
 It was pretty much the same story in the 1920s, Professor Goetzmann and Mr. Newman reported.
 Real estate bond firms ''generally served simultaneously as originators, underwriters and distributors,'' they wrote. ''Performing these three functions proved incredibly lucrative in an optimistic real estate market. So long as investors were easy to locate, bond houses could collect substantial fees for these services without having to part with much, or any, of their own capital.''
 So it was for Wall Street firms that snapped up mortgage lenders earlier in the last decade. Among the biggest in mortgage origination, underwriting and distribution were Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns.
 A major difference between then and now is that most of the real estate securities issued in the 1920s went to build structures, many of which still stand and provide housing or employment. A much greater proportion of real estate securitizations in the last decade went to help people buy existing buildings, an activity that left behind no such legacy.
 Among the buildings financed with bonds was the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, whose bonds were issued on Sept. 1, 1929, about as bad a piece of market timing for the buyers as can be imagined. The bonds held their own for a few months, but plunged before the hotel opened in 1931.
 In 1942, Conrad Hilton began buying up the Waldorf bonds for less than 5 cents on the dollar and was, he recalled in his memoir, ''Be My Guest,'' deemed to be the kind of sucker who might buy the Brooklyn Bridge. 
 ''In New York, hotels are dead,'' a real estate broker told Hilton. ''There are too many of them.'' Hilton kept buying the bonds, and eventually took over the Waldorf. It was a much better investment for him than it had been for the original bond investors.
 If economists and regulators had recalled the securitizations of the 1920s, they might have realized that the recent boom in real estate securitizations was not what they took it to be: a result of American financial ingenuity that created ways to spread risk to those who could best afford to bear it and in the process made financing more available and less expensive. 
 It was, instead, the same old speculative enthusiasm, even if it was wearing fancy new clothes. Investors who had seen real estate prices rise thought that trend could not end. Wall Street sharpies thought they had found a way to make lots of money while not bearing the ultimate risk if the game suddenly ended.
 As it turned out, the sharpies were wrong. They too got swept up in the carnage -- just as their predecessors had in the 1930s.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York's Waldorf-Astoria was built with the aid of bonds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CHERNIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS CHART: Past Is Prologue: The first wave of real estate securitizations in the United States came in the 1920s, when many buildings were financed by bond issues, including the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York. The wave ended with overbuilding and large losses for investors. (Source: Frank Newman) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIZATION (94%); REAL ESTATE (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); INSURANCE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



862 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Wins A Second Term Despite Critics

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Barclay Walsh contributed research.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate gave Ben S. Bernanke a second four-year term as the head of the Federal Reserve on Thursday after critics excoriated the central bank's conduct in the years leading up to the financial crisis.
 The 70-to-30 vote was the weakest endorsement ever extended to a chairman in the Fed's 96-year history. 
 The confirmation was a victory for President Obama, who had called Mr. Bernanke an architect of the recovery, but also signaled the extent to which the Fed, once little known to the public, has become the object of outrage over high unemployment and bank bailouts.
 In several hours of debate, senators said that the Fed had abetted, then ignored, the housing and credit bubbles and allowed banks to keep dangerously low capital reserves and to make reckless lending decisions that ruined consumers. Some even blamed Mr. Bernanke for the falling dollar and questioned his commitment to free enterprise. 
 In contrast, Mr. Bernanke's supporters were muted. They reiterated that the Fed had made mistakes but said that Mr. Bernanke had helped save the economy from a far worse recession.
 After a week in which top White House officials and Mr. Bernanke met with Democratic leaders in the Senate to secure support, the Senate first voted 77 to 23 to end debate, with more than the 60 votes needed to overcome the threat of a filibuster. 
 On a second vote, to confirm, the 30 dissents came from 18 Republicans, 11 Democrats and one independent, Bernard Sanders of Vermont. 
 On Thursday evening, Mr. Obama congratulated Mr. Bernanke in a statement. ''As the nation continues to face the consequences of the worst recession in a generation, Ben Bernanke has provided wisdom and steady leadership in the midst of the financial and economic crisis,'' he said. 
 While an arm-twisting campaign by the administration limited the opposition, the outcry against the Fed will most likely continue rippling through economic policy generally, and Mr. Bernanke's leadership of the Fed in particular. The effects could be felt first in the debate over how to reform financial regulations. The Obama administration has proposed consolidating risk regulation under the Fed, while some in Congress want to strip away its oversight authority. 
 ''The institutional prestige of the Fed, even apart from this vote, had taken a hit, and it started back around the disaster of September 2008,'' said Stephen H. Axilrod, who worked at the Fed for 34 years and wrote a history of its monetary policies. ''I don't think it has recovered. This is a low point in the Fed's recent history, that's for sure.''
 The vote also made clear Congress's insistence on transparency from a historically secretive institution that has made extraordinary interventions in the market since 2008. 
 ''The Fed is going to have to work hard, for a long period, to regain the public confidence of the sort it enjoyed during the halcyon days when everything was going so swimmingly,'' said Barry Eichengreen, professor of economics and political science at the University of California, Berkeley.
 Senators from opposite ends of the spectrum formed unlikely alliances. After Mr. Sanders, who calls himself a socialist, finished denouncing Mr. Bernanke, Jeff Sessions, a conservative Republican from Alabama, rose to do the same. 
 Another Alabaman, Richard C. Shelby, the top Republican on the banking committee, which approved the nomination last month by a 16-to-7 vote, laid out a bill of particulars, saying Mr. Bernanke's handling of the financial crisis did not make up for his failings before that time. 
 ''Considerable economic devastation occurred as a result of Chairman Bernanke's loose monetary policy and weak regulatory oversight,'' Mr. Shelby said. ''If we don't hold Chairman Bernanke accountable, what precedent are we setting for future regulators?''
 To an extent, the rhetoric against Mr. Bernanke reflected a spilling-over of frustration at two of his collaborators: the former Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the current one, Timothy F. Geithner. 
 And looming over it all was the role of Mr. Bernanke's predecessor, Alan Greenspan, whose once-sterling reputation has been diminished as his decisions to keep interest rates low after the 2001 recession have been brought into question. 
 Mr. Bernanke, 56, was a member of the Fed's board for part of that period, from 2002 to 2005, when President George W. Bush named him to lead his Council of Economic Advisers. He rejoined the Fed, as chairman, in 2006, and Mr. Obama renominated him last year. Mr. Bernanke is a Republican economist and an authority on the Depression. 
 ''I knew that he would continue the legacy of Alan Greenspan, and I was right,'' said Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, who was the lone vote against Mr. Bernanke in 2005.
 Mr. Bunning cited a half-dozen statements from 2007 to 2009 in which Mr. Bernanke expressed optimism about the housing market, bank capital ratios, the capitalization of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the unemployment rate. Saying that Mr. Bernanke had been repeatedly wrong, he declared, ''We shouldn't be paying the Fed chairman to learn on the job.'' 
 Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, echoed that, saying Mr. Bernanke had shown ''a troubling pattern of false confidence.'' Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, went further, saying the Fed had ''helped set the fire that destroyed our economy.''
 While less passionate, supporters of Mr. Bernanke said he had acted deftly and decisively, at least since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008. 
 ''He basically allowed the Fed to become the lender of the nation,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire. ''Nobody had ever done that. The way he did it was extraordinary in its creativity, and the results were that the country's financial system did not collapse.''
 The last time any nominee for chairman faced such opposition was 1983, when the Senate confirmed Paul A. Volcker to a second term on an 84-to-16 vote. Mr. Volcker, too, had served under presidents of opposing parties and had navigated the Fed through a difficult recession.
 But while Mr. Volcker sharply raised interest rates to tame runaway inflation -- actions that were initially unpopular but were later praised -- Mr. Bernanke faces a different challenge. The Fed has held short-term interest rates near zero since December 2008, a policy reaffirmed on Wednesday. And while analysts expect rates to start rising later this year, the scale and timing of that rise will be a challenge. So, too, will be the unwinding of the Fed's emergency lending programs and its purchase of $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities.
 Many politicians will not want the Fed to put the brakes on recovery by raising rates. Indeed, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, offered only a lukewarm endorsement last week after telling Mr. Bernanke that the Fed must do more to ease lending to households and small businesses. While the Fed says Mr. Bernanke gave Mr. Reid no specific commitments, the central bank will continue to face close scrutiny.
 ''Their independence from political pressures has been tarnished,'' Mr. Axilrod said. ''And if the market believes the Fed will not control inflation, there will be more inflation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Fed chief Ben Bernanke faced mounting criticism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS) (A1)
 President Obama has called Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Fed, an architect of the recovery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BERNIE SANDERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



863 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Obama Sets Ambitious Export Goal

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In promising Wednesday night to double the United States' export growth over the next five years, President Obama set an ambitious goal for American trade policy that, he said, could create two million jobs.
 The trouble, trade experts say, is that meeting that goal would require the president to engage in a fight to the death with the liberal wing of his own party, persuade China to allow its currency to appreciate 40 percent, get global economic growth to outperform the salad days from 2003 to 2007, and lower taxes for American companies that do business abroad. 
 And, while he is at it, forget about strengthening the dollar in the foreseeable future. 
 Since the Obama administration has not yet clearly articulated a trade policy or even sent several completed trade agreements to Congress, his pledge to double exports in five years was greeted with incredulity, even among Democratic trade policy experts. 
 ''It's like someone dropped a paragraph from a Bush or a Clinton speech, given the low profile the administration has accorded trade so far,'' said David Rothkopf, a former Commerce Department official with the Clinton administration. 
 Leslie H. Gelb, president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations, added: ''How will he perform this miracle? It really is a mystery.''
 So far, administration officials have not laid out how they plan to double American exports to $2 trillion in 2015, from $1 trillion today. Mr. Obama said he was starting a National Export Initiative that will ''help farmers and small businesses increase their exports,'' but did not elaborate. White House officials, when pressed, said only that the commerce secretary, Gary F. Locke, would give a speech on the matter next week.
 Separately, on Thursday, Mr. Locke announced that, as part of a plan to reduce export burdens on American companies, the United States might remove restrictions on exports of goods with potential military applications when such technologies were available worldwide. 
 ''We have too many controls on items readily available around the world,'' Mr. Locke told the United States-China Business Council. 
 Export control rules are meant to keep dual-use technologies like computer encryption software and airplane parts out of the hands of American foes that could use them for military purposes. 
 A White House spokeswoman, Jennifer R. Psaki, said on Thursday that the White House had been working for several months on a policy to increase exports. She said the plans included the creation of an export promotion cabinet and steps to help small and medium-size businesses tap markets in other countries. 
 In the last months, two of Mr. Obama's top aides, Lawrence H. Summers, the White House economics adviser, and Michael Froman, the deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, have reached out to trade experts at Washington-based policy organizations to ask them for advice on increasing export growth.
 Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, said many economists believed that, to increase exports, one of the first things that Mr. Obama needed to do was to stop slamming big American companies that invested overseas.
 ''The fact of the matter is these are the firms that account for two-thirds of American exports,'' Mr. Hufbauer said. ''Their investments abroad are intimately related to their exports. The notion that you can punish U.S. firms for investing abroad and still see exports rise is bunk.''
 But Wednesday night in his State of the Union address, Mr. Obama took another whack at those businesses, saying, ''It's time to finally slash the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to companies that create jobs in the United States of America.'' 
 Mr. Obama does receive some credit from free-trade proponents for resisting, so far, the temptation to ignite a trade war or enact a lot of protectionist policies, often the first move of presidents during an economic downturn. While the administration imposed punitive tariffs last year against Chinese tires and steel pipes, Mr. Obama has not taken tougher steps -- like trade sanctions -- against imports from China or India. 
 And on Wednesday he reiterated his pledge to push through stalled trade agreements with Korea, Panama and Colombia, which would open the markets of those countries to American goods. But that would ignite a fight from Democrats from big manufacturing states who say the agreements would usher in a flood of imports at the expense of American jobs. Fearing that reaction, White House officials have yet to move forward on seeking Congressional approval of the trade deals.
 In developing trade policy, Mr. Obama faces the same challenges at home as he does abroad: his most important allies are also his biggest rivals or adversaries. Most economists say they believe that the only way for Mr. Obama to achieve his ambitious export goals is to export more to China, India and other big emerging markets. 
 But those were the very same countries that Mr. Obama cited Wednesday night as America's principal competition in many areas, including developing green energy and producing educated workers.
 ''China's not waiting to revamp its economy,'' he said, knocking down a rhetorical straw man he had just set up about how ''Washington has been telling us to wait for decades, even as the problems have grown worse.''
 At home, Mr. Obama will need the support of his own party to get trade deals passed. Yet, Mr. Rothkopf, the former Clinton administration official, said, ''His own party is also the home of the most virulent opposition to such deals.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GARY LOCKE (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



864 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: March Of The Peacocks

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Last week, the Center for American Progress, a think tank with close ties to the Obama administration, published an acerbic essay about the difference between true deficit hawks and showy ''deficit peacocks.'' You can identify deficit peacocks, readers were told, by the way they pretend that our budget problems can be solved with gimmicks like a temporary freeze in nondefense discretionary spending.
 One week later, in the State of the Union address, President Obama proposed a temporary freeze in nondefense discretionary spending. 
 Wait, it gets worse. To justify the freeze, Mr. Obama used language that was almost identical to widely ridiculed remarks early last year by John Boehner, the House minority leader. Boehner then: ''American families are tightening their belt, but they don't see government tightening its belt.'' Obama now: ''Families across the country are tightening their belts and making tough decisions. The federal government should do the same.''
 What's going on here? The answer, presumably, is that Mr. Obama's advisers believed he could score some political points by doing the deficit-peacock strut. I think they were wrong, that he did himself more harm than good. Either way, however, the fact that anyone thought such a dumb policy idea was politically smart is bad news because it's an indication of the extent to which we're failing to come to grips with our economic and fiscal problems. 
 The nature of America's troubles is easy to state. We're in the aftermath of a severe financial crisis, which has led to mass job destruction. The only thing that's keeping us from sliding into a second Great Depression is deficit spending. And right now we need more of that deficit spending because millions of American lives are being blighted by high unemployment, and the government should be doing everything it can to bring unemployment down.
 In the long run, however, even the U.S. government has to pay its way. And the long-run budget outlook was dire even before the recent surge in the deficit, mainly because of inexorably rising health care costs. Looking ahead, we're going to have to find a way to run smaller, not larger, deficits.
 How can this apparent conflict between short-run needs and long-run responsibilities be resolved? Intellectually, it's not hard at all. We should combine actions that create jobs now with other actions that will reduce deficits later. And economic officials in the Obama administration understand that logic: for the past year they have been very clear that their vision involves combining fiscal stimulus to help the economy now with health care reform to help the budget later. 
 The sad truth, however, is that our political system doesn't seem capable of doing what's necessary.
 On jobs, it's now clear that the Obama stimulus wasn't nearly big enough. No need now to resolve the question of whether the administration should or could have sought a bigger package early last year. Either way, the point is that the boost from the stimulus will start to fade out in around six months, yet we're still facing years of mass unemployment. The latest projections from the Congressional Budget Office say that the average unemployment rate next year will be only slightly lower than the current, disastrous, 10 percent.
 Yet there is little sentiment in Congress for any major new job-creation efforts.
 Meanwhile, health care reform faces a troubled outlook. Congressional Democrats may yet manage to pass a bill; they'll be committing political suicide if they don't. But there's no question that Republicans were very successful at demonizing the plan. And, crucially, what they demonized most effectively were the cost-control efforts: modest, totally reasonable measures to ensure that Medicare dollars are spent wisely became evil ''death panels.'' 
 So if health reform fails, you can forget about any serious effort to rein in rising Medicare costs. And even if it succeeds, many politicians will have learned a hard lesson: you don't get any credit for doing the fiscally responsible thing. It's better, for the sake of your career, to just pretend that you're fiscally responsible -- that is, to be a deficit peacock.
 So we're paralyzed in the face of mass unemployment and out-of-control health care costs. Don't blame Mr. Obama. There's only so much one man can do, even if he sits in the White House. Blame our political culture instead, a culture that rewards hypocrisy and irresponsibility rather than serious efforts to solve America's problems. And blame the filibuster, under which 41 senators can make the country ungovernable, if they choose -- and they have so chosen.
 I'm sorry to say this, but the state of the union -- not the speech, but the thing itself -- isn't looking very good. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



865 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: They're Right to Be Galled

 BODY:
In his budget proposal this week, Mayor Michael Bloomberg had chilling news for New York City's 300,000 workers. With a $4.9 billion deficit projected for the coming year, he said, the city will have to renegotiate benefits and cut its work force. That was a hard but necessary truth, and Mr. Bloomberg must now steel himself for months of wrestling with the city's powerful unions. 
 The mayor and his aides are understandably galled that Gov. David Paterson of New York is not talking about any serious cuts to the state work force.
 With the state in desperate financial shape, Mr. Paterson's budget proposes cutting more than $700 million in funds for New York City. Mr. Bloomberg says that if that happens, he will have to lay off even more workers. 
 Mr. Paterson -- who is eager to be re-elected -- apparently made a deal with state workers' unions that if they would agree to a less-costly pension plan for new employees, he would not let anyone go until next year. The new pension plan was needed, but Mayor Bloomberg is right that it is unfair for city workers to bear the burden now for Governor Paterson's deal.
 Although this early budget is often a worst-case scenario, the mayor estimates that the present gaps will force a reduction in the city's work force of about 4,200 positions, including many employees in libraries, parks and other services. He warns of as many as 19,000 more layoffs if the state goes ahead with Mr. Paterson's proposed cuts in funds for the city. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, who has agreed to generous salary increases for teachers in the past, now says that the city has reached its limit. He will ask for either a reduction in future pay increases -- from 4 percent a year to 2 percent -- or a loss of at least 2,500 teaching jobs. As he moves forward, the mayor also indicated that he wants city unions to agree that any raises be based on savings of pension and health care costs, plus new productivity requirements.
 With unemployment rates of more than 10 percent -- and higher in New York City than in the rest of the state -- nobody wants more layoffs. If jobs can be saved, the state and city should work hard to find ways to adjust workers' benefits. Most of which are far more generous than those usually offered in the private sector. That said, it will be tough-going for Mayor Bloomberg and the city's unions -- and tougher than it needs to be. Mr. Paterson has to remember that he is governor for the whole state, including New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (88%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



866 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Student of Toyota Helps Swing Ford to a Profit

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
For roughly two decades, Alan R. Mulally, Ford Motor's chief executive, has been an unabashed fan of the Toyota Motor Company. 
 As a Boeing executive in the early 1990s, he made a pilgrimage to Japan to study Toyota's manufacturing methods, which he used to speed up assembly of Boeing's 777 jets. 
 When he joined Ford in late 2006, Mr. Mulally liberally borrowed from Toyota's playbook -- focusing on fuel efficiency, quality and so-called global cars to sell in markets around the world. He even hired away a top Toyota executive, James Farley. 
 ''The finest production system in the world,'' Mr. Mulally called Toyota during a dinner with journalists in December 2006. 
 This week, at least, the student is doing better than the teacher. 
 Ford, which managed to skirt the problems that forced crosstown rivals General Motors and Chrysler to seek government bailouts, reported a surprising profit on Thursday of $2.7 billion for 2009, its first in four years.
 The sharp swing to profit for Ford, from a record loss of more than $14 billion in 2008, stands in sharp contrast to current problems at Toyota, which is struggling to contain the fallout of a global recall over concerns about accelerator pedals. 
 The fact that Ford is surging while Toyota -- the same company whose success has caused the Detroit automakers to lay off thousands of workers -- is stumbling is not lost on Bill Jackson, president of United Automobile Workers Local 588 in Chicago Heights, Ill.
 ''There's some sympathy and some irony there,'' he said. ''A lot more irony than sympathy, though.''
 Because of its profits, Ford plans to issue profit-sharing checks of roughly $450 each to its 43,000 hourly workers.
 ''A year ago, we did not know where our fate was; the Big Three were getting hammered in Congress and we were on a downward spiral,'' said Mr. Jackson, who represents 700 workers at a Ford stamping plant that is going to be adding jobs. ''In a year, it's turned around.''
 Ford's profit for 2009 -- which Mr. Mulally called a ''historic and pivotal'' year -- partly results from deep cost cuts and layoffs. Ford's hourly work force is now less than half what it was five years ago. But Ford also took the risky step of borrowing more than $23 billion in 2006, giving it enough cash to weather the sharp downturn in the industry.
 In addition, Ford continued introducing new vehicles, and marketing their fuel efficiency. Consumers showed they were willing to buy them even without the heavy incentives that undercut the Detroit automakers' business in the past.
 ''They looked like a company in its death throes,'' said Louis E. Lataif, a former Ford executive who is dean of the Boston University School of Management. ''To their credit, they kept their focus on what really mattered, which is product, and at the end of the day that's going to carry the company.''
 Stock in Ford reflects its improvement. The shares slipped 14 cents, to $11.41, on Thursday but are up from less than $2 as recently as last February.
 Ford executives were also managing expectations on Thursday, saying they still faced many challenges. The company has $25.5 billion in cash on hand, nearly twice the amount from a year ago.
 But it still owes more than it has in its reserves and it is carrying more debt than its competitors. It paid $1.5 billion in interest last year.
 ''We know we have some work to do to improve our balance sheet,'' Ford's chief financial officer, Lewis W. K. Booth, said in an interview. ''I don't feel anything other than a sense of great urgency when it comes to improving the business. We know that nobody is guaranteed a future.''
 Mr. Booth said Ford expected to have an operating profit and positive cash flow in 2010. Previously, executives had set 2011 as a target for consistent profitability.
 As of Jan. 1, Ford -- as well as G.M. and Chrysler -- eliminated responsibility for health care coverage for hourly retirees, which now is handled by a U.A.W. trust fund. 
 In addition, Ford said it cut its annual structural costs by $5.1 billion in 2009, $1 billion more than it had planned.
 The profit was a cause for celebration for Ford workers who in recent years elected to turn down lucrative buyouts in the hope that the company still had a future. 
 The profit-sharing checks that plant workers will receive in March are the first that any Detroit automaker will have given out since 2006. Still, they are a pittance compared with the $8,000 payments Ford made a decade ago, when it even had enough money to fly banner-toting planes over some Michigan factories to thank employees.
 Ford was profitable in every region of the world in the fourth quarter, including North America for the second consecutive quarter. North America has been the greatest source of difficulty for all automakers, but it was Ford's most profitable region in the quarter, with pretax earnings of $707 million, excluding one-time items. 
 On the year, Ford increased market share in the United States for the first time since 1995. For all of 2009, Ford's market share rose to 16.1 percent, from 15 percent in 2008.
 Ford earned $868 million in the fourth quarter over all, in contrast with a loss of $6 billion a year earlier. Its overall operating profit for 2009, excluding one-time items like charges for retiree health care and a windfall from a debt-restructuring effort, was $454 million. Its financing arm, Ford Motor Credit, posted a 2009 profit of $1.9 billion, after losing $495 million in 2008. Sales in the fourth quarter rose to $35.4 billion, from $29 billion a year earlier.
 ''During the worst economic recession in 30 or 40 years,'' Mr. Mulally said in a conference call with analysts and reporters, ''because of the strength of the plan we put in place a few years ago, we were not only able to survive but also to create a foundation that is delivering now profitable growth during that year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An F-150 pickup caught Chris Bailey's attention Thursday at Bankston Ford in Frisco, Tex. Ford expects a profitable 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Alan R. Mulally, Ford's chief executive, with a Fiesta on Tuesday at the Washington Auto Show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM VARNHAGEN/FORD, VIA REUTERS) (B4) CHART: Ford's net income (Sources: Bloomberg
 company reports) (A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (78%); JOB CREATION (75%); LABOR FORCE (69%); BAILOUTS (68%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); BOEING CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (96%); TM (NYSE) (96%); 7203 (TSE) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



867 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 ISRAEL SEEKS TO CURB PROTESTS IN WEST BANK OVER BARRIER
 Apparently concerned about the spread of frequent protests in the West Bank town of Nilin against the Israeli security barrier, Israel has begun arresting scores of local activists and conducting raids on the homes of others. PAGE A4 
 LEADER DEFENDS ITALY'S IMAGE 
 Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi criticized movies and television shows that fictionalized the Mafia for giving Italy ''a negative image abroad.'' PAGE A4
 IRANIAN OFFERS OLIVE BRANCH
 Furthering a recent trend, a prominent Iranian opposition leader, Mehdi Karroubi, made conciliatory remarks that appeared to be aimed at defusing tensions and ending the nation's political crisis. PAGE A6 
 IN HAITI, RUBBLE AND RELIEF
 More than two weeks after an earthquake devastated much of Haiti, the capital, Port-Au-Prince, remains a city of teetering walls, dangling electrical wires and precariously balanced heaps of cinder block, all rattled daily by aftershocks. PAGE A8 
 CYBERATTACK THREAT ON RISE
 A study based on responses from 600 computing and computer-security executives in 14 countries suggests that attacks on the Internet pose a growing threat to modern society. PAGE A9 
 Obituaries
 HOWARD ZINN,
 A historian and shipyard worker, civil rights activist and World War II bombardier, his best-selling book, ''A People's History of the United States,'' inspired a generation of high school and college students to rethink American history. PAGE B10 
 National
 FOR THE SUPREME COURT, A RARE REBUKE IN PERSON
 It is not unusual for presidents to disagree with the Supreme Court. But they tend to do so at news conferences and in written statements, not to the justices' faces, as President Obama did during his State of the Union address. Washington Memo by Adam Liptak. PAGE A12
 MEDDLING AT SENATOR'S OFFICE
 A lawyer for one for one of four men arrested on charges of interfering with the phones in Senator Mary L. Landrieu's office in New Orleans said that the episode was a prank. PAGE A16 
 OPTIMISM ON HEALTH CARE
 Democratic leaders in Congress voiced resolute optimism that they would adopt major health care legislation, and they said that doing so was a crucial element to create jobs, revive the economy and reduce federal budget deficits. PAGE A11 
 OBAMA SPEAKS IN TAMPA
 A day after delivering his first State of the Union address, President Obama traveled to Florida to announce the investment of $8 billion in high-speed rail projects in 13 major corridors. PAGE A12 
 STUDYING NUCLEAR WASTE
 The Energy Department plans to announce the formation of a commission to study the disposal of nuclear waste. PAGE A16 
 New York
 IN REDISTRICTING, FELONS ARE A PRIZED CONSTITUENCY
 As state lawmakers prepare to redraw the boundaries of legislative districts, Republicans and Democrats are squabbling over the home addresses of New York's 58,378 incarcerated felons. PAGE A20 
 Business
 TOYOTA FACES MORE SCRUTINY OVER PROBLEMS WITH PEDALS
 Toyota faced heightened scrutiny over problems with the accelerator pedals on its vehicles, as a House committee scheduled Congressional hearings into the matter, and the carmaker's recalls expanded to Europe and China. PAGE B1
 SENATE RAISES DEBT LIMIT
 The Senate voted to raise the nation's debt limit to $14.3 trillion, a $1.9 trillion increase. The measure, which is essential to avoid default, was passed 60 to 39, with Republicans united in opposition. PAGE B3 
 MORTGAGE PROGRAM ALTERED
 The Treasury Department is streamlining the Making Home Affordable program in the hope of increasing the number of successfully modified home mortgages. PAGE B3 
 SMALL RISE IN FACTORY ORDERS
 Businesses are slowly regaining the confidence to invest in equipment and machinery, as orders for durable goods were up 0.3 percent in December, according to a newly released government report. PAGE B8 
 SWEDISH BANKS DIVERGE
 Sweden's top banks are going separate ways on the question of employee bonuses. Nordea said it would pay out $390 million in bonuses for 2009. A day earlier, a rival, Swedbank, said it was canceling its 2009 bonuses. PAGE B5 
 Sports
 WOMEN'S SOCCER LEAGUE SHUTTERS LOS ANGELES TEAM
 Women's Professional Soccer has decided to shut down the Los Angeles Sol, its most popular team, after failing to find a buyer for the club. The league will have a dispersal draft next week. PAGE B14 
 Weekend
 SUNDANCE FESTIVAL'S ROOTS ARE SHOWING A LITTLE BIT
 For all the charges that it has gone Hollywood, the Sundance Film Festival remains one of the foremost launching pads for American independents. And there was more room for microbudget films at the festival's 26th edition in a new section called Next. PAGE C1 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27 
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ARRESTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EARTHQUAKES (74%); BUDGETS (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); CYBERCRIME (72%); FELONIES (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); TRENDS (70%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); REDISTRICTING (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAWYERS (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); HEALTH CARE LAW (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%); NUCLEAR WASTE (60%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (60%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (60%); WORLD WAR II (51%); BESTSELLERS (51%); CIVIL RIGHTS (51%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%); MARY LANDRIEU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (93%); HAITI (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



868 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: As Health Bills Stall, President Alters Agenda

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House on Thursday signaled the outlines of its strategy for breaking the partisan logjam holding up President Obama's agenda, saying Democrats would move quickly to underline their commitment to fixing the broken economy and to build an election-year case against Republicans if they do not cooperate. 
 With Mr. Obama's health care overhaul stalled on Capitol Hill, Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, said in an interview that Democrats would try to act first on job creation, reducing the deficit and imposing tighter regulation on banks before returning to the health measure, the president's top priority from last year. 
 But Mr. Obama quickly got a taste of how difficult it would be to bring the opposition party on board. 
 One day after the president upbraided Congress in his State of the Union address for excessive partisanship, Senate Republicans voted en masse against a plan to require that new spending not add to the deficit (it passed anyway as all 60 members of the Democratic caucus hung together). And some Republicans peremptorily dismissed Mr. Obama's main job-creating proposal, expressing no interest in using $30 billion in bank bailout money for business tax credits.
 ''I think there is a right way and a wrong way to do it, and that is not the right way,'' said Senator John Cornyn, the Texas Republican heading the effort to elect more Republicans to the Senate.
 On Friday, Mr. Obama will travel to Baltimore to announce specifics of his jobs plan, including a proposed $5,000 tax credit for small businesses for each new employee they hire in 2010. While there, he will address House Republicans at a retreat they are holding.
 The instant Republican resistance to the jobs plan -- coupled with a vote this week to kill a deficit-reduction panel that had been initiated with high bipartisan hopes -- illustrated the chasm between the two parties and the difficulties Mr. Obama faces if he is serious about trying to work with an energized opposition.
 Increasingly confident of their prospects after the Massachusetts Senate victory, Republicans are disinclined to give ground in policy debates and appear willing to stick with their near-unanimous opposition to major initiatives unless Democrats offer significant concessions.
 ''House Republicans will seize the opportunity in respectful terms, but candid and frank terms, and make it clear to the president that we have better solutions,'' said Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the chairman of the House Republican Conference.
 The administration showed no signs of capitulating either, with officials saying the White House will pursue a strategy of trying to shame Republicans whenever they stand in lock-step against Mr. Obama. In an interview Thursday, Mr. Emanuel warned that Republicans would suffer politically for their opposition to the pay-as-you-go plan.
 ''One party was for fiscal discipline, the other party wasn't,'' he said, previewing a message that Democrats could use in this year's midterm elections.
 Officials said they were pressing ahead with one of the more controversial items Mr. Obama laid out Wednesday night: repealing the policy barring gay men and lesbians from serving openly in the military. 
 Senior Pentagon officials said Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had been in close discussions with Mr. Obama on the issue and would present the Pentagon's initial plans for carrying out the new policy at a hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday.
 Changing the policy requires an act of Congress, and the officials signaled that Mr. Gates would go slowly, and that repeal of the ban was not imminent. And it could be a hard sell for the president, even among Democrats; Representative Ike Skelton of Missouri, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, on Thursday restated his opposition to repealing the ban.
 Mr. Emanuel, the chief of staff, said he hoped Congressional Democrats would take up the jobs bill next week. Then, in his view, Congress would move to the president's plan to impose a fee on banks to help offset losses to the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the fund used to bail out banks and automakers. 
 Lawmakers would next deal with a financial regulatory overhaul, and then pick up where they left off on health care. ''All these things start and lead to one place: J-O-B-S,'' Mr. Emanuel said.
 The execution, of course, will be much easier said than done. Democrats are about to lose their 60-vote supermajority in the Senate, after the recent Republican victory by Scott Brown in a special election to fill the seat held by the late Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. In the Senate, Republicans have come under intense pressure from their colleagues to stay in the fold.
 Even some of Mr. Obama's allies said that given united Republican opposition, the goal of more cooperation might be out of reach. ''In order to dance, you need a dance partner and there ain't no partner out there,'' Senator Bernard Sanders, a Vermont independent, noted.
 A vote this week on a proposal to create a bipartisan commission to recommend ways to attack rising federal deficits was seen as illustrative of the Republican strategy to thwart Democrats. Though the idea attracted 53 votes -- 36 Democrats, one independent and 16 Republicans -- it failed because it did not cross the 60-vote threshold. 
 At least six Republicans who had previously supported the plan voted against it, as did others who have backed the idea in concept. Some of those who voted against the plan suggested they did so because they did not want to give Democrats political cover by joining with them in a deficit reduction effort.
 ''It was stacked,'' Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, told reporters in explaining his rationale for switching from a supporter to an opponent of the commission.
 Some leading Republicans say they believe there is still an opportunity for the administration, Congressional Democrats and Republicans to find ways to work together. But they say it would require a concerted outreach effort and the White House abandoning the idea of wooing a few individual Republican senators.
 ''I am astonished that the White House's idea of working in a bipartisan way is this shooting gallery method, going around and seeing if you can pick off one or two or three,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a member of the Republican leadership.
 Other Republicans say Mr. Obama should convene a summit of Congressional Republican leaders.
 ''If the president reaches out to the Republican leadership in a genuine way, the spotlight shifts from his overreaching to whether we can meet him in the middle,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.
 Congressional Democrats say they are pessimistic about cooperation. Using their power of 60 for one of the final times, Democrats did secure approval of the antideficit legislation Thursday on a straight 60-40 party-line vote but interpreted the united Republican opposition as a sign that Republicans were not moved by the president's appeal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain after voting on a debt-limit extension bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); BANK FAILURES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MIKE PENCE (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); JOHN CORNYN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010



869 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: January 29, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: Google vs. China: Considering Threats to Internet Freedom

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Looking at the issues involved and at stake in the dispute between China and Google. 

 BODY:
Overview | What threats exist to Internet freedom, and how can people and democratic governments combat them? In this lesson, students imagine how they might communicate, and evade censors, if they were antigovernment activists. They then look more closely at the issues involved in the dispute between Google and China and develop ideas for how Google or the United States government should respond. Finally, they do independent research to learn more about the types of information that the Chinese government has sought to block online. 
Materials | Handouts
Warm-Up | Tell students to imagine that they are forming an activist group to protest the government. How would they communicate and plan to meet? How would they find information that they need? How would they connect with others who are interested in joining the cause? Invite responses and list their ideas on the board.
Cross out all mentions of technology and social networking -- like cellphones, Facebook, Twitter or Google -- on the board, and tell them to imagine that the government is using its power to limit activists' ability to use these tools. What then? Again, invite responses. What ideas do students have for getting around such restrictions or for organizing without them? How much would these restrictions hamper their ability to organize?
You might share with them recent stories of government crackdowns on protesters using technology to communicate and mobilize in Iran and Moldova.
Ask whether students have heard of other cases of governments trying to limit people's use of technology. If no one mentions it, tell them that China has recently come under fire - and Google has threatened to pull its operations there - when evidence was discovered that the Chinese government had hacked into the Google accounts of journalists and human rights advocates. (Note that China has denied the charges.)
Have students share their reactions, and, if necessary, review information about China and communism for context and background.
Ask students to speculate what the Google hackers in China were trying to do. Ask: How might such actions - and the threat of other such violations - affect citizens and activist groups in China? How do such actions pose a threat to other nations? How can a country defend itself against cyberattacks
Share this quote from Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's Jan. 21, 2010, speech on Internet freedom: "Those who disrupt the free flow of information in our society or any other pose a threat to our economy, our government and our civil society. Countries or individuals that engage in cyberattacks should face consequences and international condemnation." Ask: Do you agree or disagree with Secretary Clinton? Why? What kinds of threats is she referring to? How, if at all, do you think the United States government should respond to the news about China's actions with respect to Google?
Tell students that they will read more about and discuss China's censorship of the Internet, starting with today's featured article.
Related | In "Scaling the Digital Wall in China," Brad Stone and David Barboza report on how Chinese citizens have tried to evade government censors:
Jason Ng, a Chinese engineering school graduate who will say only that he works in the media business, wakes every day at 8:30 a.m., and then begins his virtual travels through an open, global network by fanqiang, or "scaling the wall." He connects to an overseas computer with a link, called a proxy server, that he set up himself. It costs 15 renminbi, or around $2, a month to share with about two dozen other friends.
Mr. Ng then works on his blog and checks the news on Google Reader and Twitter to "officially start my day of information." Chinese citizens engaged in such practices say the government rarely cracks down on them individually, preferring instead to go after prominent dissidents who publish information about forbidden topics online.
As a result, college students, human rights activists, bloggers, journalists and even multinational corporations in China are rushing to use tools that go over or around barriers set up by Chinese regulators, in part because they feel it is the only way to participate in a global online community.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
What kinds of sites has the Chinese government blocked access to?
        
What sorts of tools do Chinese citizens use to circumvent the government's digital blockades?
        
What is Global Internet Freedom, what is the Falun Gong, and what is the connection between the two?
        
How is the United States government getting involved in Internet freedom?
        
How does the very structure of the Internet make it easier for citizens than government censors to accomplish their goals?
Activity | Hand out copies of the overview on the Times Topics page on Internet Censorship in China and the handout China, Google and the United States: An Overview (PDF), which consists of passages from Times articles.
Tell students to work in pairs to read and process the information, highlighting or underlining pertinent information and jotting down thoughts and questions in the margins or on the back. Alternatively, read some or all of the information aloud, to reinforce students' listening comprehension skills, while they jot down key points.
Then ask: What topics are censored in China? Who does the censoring? Who monitors and censors Web sites in China? Why do the companies comply? Why is Google considering pulling out of China? How and why has the federal government gotten involved in the dispute between Google and China? What are the business, political, human rights and other key issues here? What sections of the reading did you mark, and why? What other questions do you have?
On the board or chart paper, write this list vertically: ordinary Chinese citizens, netizens, dissidents, Chinese government, American government, Google. Jot down students' ideas and comments under each grouping as they take turns offering ideas about the group you point to: what it wants and what it would most likely accept as fair treatment.
Go through the list again, this time naming groups in a different order. Repeat this process as many times as necessary to elicit ideas. Encourage students to, instead of preparing what they will say in advance, listen carefully to the other ideas about different groups in order to respond as specifically as possible, raising their hands rather than waiting for you to name "their" group when an immediate response is most appropriate.
You might use these questions to guide the discussion:

        
Citizens and netizens: Do ordinary Chinese citizens and its self-described "netizens" mind the Internet limitations? How do some people bypass the blocks on certain Web sites? Is this dangerous? Why do some people not object to the limits?
        
Chinese dissidents, journalists, human rights workers and other activists: How do they use the Internet? What threat might they pose to their nation's government? What recent event shows that their online activities are being monitored and sabotaged? What person or groups are most likely responsible?
        
The Chinese government: What is its philosophy toward individual rights and freedoms? Why? How has it countered Google's claims of a cyberattack originating within China? How has it responded to Secretary Clinton's call for China to cooperate with Google in investigating the Gmail hacking? How does it justify breaking its agreement with Google regarding filters? How does it keep its people from rebelling? What limits is it facing?
        
The American government: What stance has it taken in regard to Internet censorship in China and elsewhere? What is the "double standard" the Chinese have identified regarding United States Internet freedom? Do you agree this argument is just? Why or why not? How is it fighting cyberterrorism and Internet censorship?
        
Google: Why has it threatened to cease operations in China? What were its original conditions of doing business in China? What values are at stake here? What are its business interests and how are they at work here?
To wrap up, have students come up with ideas for what Google and the United States government should do to combat cyberterrorism and restrictions on Internet freedom, returning to Secretary Clinton's statement that a cyberattack is an attack on all countries as a basis for response. Invite them to consider various types of responses, including diplomacy, censures, technological techniques, business models and more. Ask students to draw on what they learned in this lesson to explain their positions more fully.
Going Further | Students can go online to research issues that China censors, like Tibetan Buddhism, the Falun Gong and the events at Tiananmen Square in 1989.
They might try comparing the results they get from Google.com and Google.cn or merely trying to figure out why the Chinese government wants to restrict access to information on these topics. Alternatively, they might restrict their search to NYTimes.com, noting that there is no freedom of the press in China.
Give students the writable Censoring the Press handout (PDF) to write about the information they found while researching. When they are finished, have them share their findings.
Standards | From McREL, for grades six to 12:
Language Arts
4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
7. Uses reading skills and strategies to interpret a variety of informational texts.
8. Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes.
World History
44. Understands the search for community, stability and peace in an interdependent world.
45. Understands major global trends since World War II.
46. Understands long-term changes and recurring patterns in world history.
United States History
31. Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States.
Technology
1. Knows the characteristics and uses of computer hardware and operating systems.
2. Knows the characteristics and uses of computer software programs.
3. Understands the relationships among science, technology, society and the individual.
4. Understands the nature of technological design.
5. Understands the nature and operation of systems.
6. Understands the nature and uses of different forms of technology.

        
Chelsea Clinton Steps Into the Spotlight
        
Fill-In | Chinese Brands
        
Reaching Toward the Future at Google
        
Oct. 25, 1971 | People's Republic of China In, Taiwan Out, at U.N.
        
Are the Web Filters at Your School Too Restrictive?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); CYBERCRIME (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); HISTORY (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); INFORMATION WARFARE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); WRITERS (65%) censorship; China; cyberwarfare; Google; Hillary Rodham Clinton; Internet freedom; American History; Civics; Current Events; Economics; Geography; Global Conflicts; Global Economics; Global History; Globalization; Human Rights; Human Systems; Individual Rights; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Media Studies; Power and Authority; Social Studies; The Influence of the Mass Media; The Internet as a Medium; United States Intervention in Foreign Affairs; World Cultures and Traditions

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



870 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: China Insists That Its Steps On Climate Be Voluntary

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG and JONATHAN ANSFIELD; John M. Broder contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
As a Sunday target date approaches for countries to submit to the United Nations their plans for fighting climate change, China is banding together with other major developing nations to stress that only the wealthier countries need to make internationally binding commitments. 
 So while China, the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, might put down in writing its targets for slowing the growth of emissions, it will make clear that those efforts are voluntary steps it plans to take domestically that should not imply a binding international commitment. 
 The distinction reflects China's strong desire to cast climate change policy as a sovereignty issue in the aftermath of rancorous negotiations last month at the environmental summit meeting in Copenhagen. It says developed nations, which emitted carbon dioxide without restriction over many decades of industrialization, cannot force developing countries to submit to international policies or regulations.
 China is standing by targets it announced before Copenhagen, but previous climate change treaties say targets of developing countries are not internationally binding, said Pan Jiahua, an economics professor who advises the Chinese negotiating team. ''On this China will stand firm.''
 This position could draw further criticisms from Western politicians who already blame China for weakening the final accord at Copenhagen. In the United States Congress, the chances that lawmakers will pass climate legislation this year are slim, in part because some lawmakers say China and India, where carbon emissions are rising the fastest, are giving much higher priority to maintaining economic growth than to fighting climate change.
 But even as China sticks to tough diplomatic language, environmental advocates say it is forging ahead with its own plans to become more carbon-efficient.
 This week, China unveiled a new agency, the National Energy Commission, headed by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, to coordinate energy policy. In December, China, now considered a leader in developing renewable energy technology, put more pressure on companies connected to the electric grid to hook up to renewable energy sources like wind- and solar-power generators. 
 The United Nations said that by Jan. 31, countries should approve the Copenhagen Accord and append their own goals for cutting carbon emissions or slowing emissions growth by 2020.
 American officials have said that they will inscribe a provisional pledge announced by President Obama last November that the United States will cut carbon emissions by 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020, pending action by Congress. Other nations demand bolder American cuts.
 China, India, Brazil and South Africa said in New Delhi this week that they would present the United Nations with their ''voluntary'' plans on climate change. Voluntary is the operative word; the countries want to stress that only developed nations should have binding responsibilities to fight climate change.
 ''A very big deal is the extent to which you're doing this voluntarily,'' said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China scholar at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''You've got to make clear this isn't an international obligation, and that you're doing this because you're a good guy.''
 To make the divide even clearer, the four countries called for an ''early flow'' of an annual $10 billion promised at Copenhagen to help developing nations combat climate change. Wealthy nations should begin handing over the money, first to small island nations and African countries, as ''proof of their commitment,'' the four major developing nations said in a statement.
 China appears to be emphasizing rich nations' obligations on that now partly because Chinese officials felt ambushed at Copenhagen, especially over Western demands that China submit to an international system for monitoring and verifying emissions cuts. 
 China is also worried about losing the support of smaller developing nations because some of them rejected China's positions at Copenhagen. This month when Yang Jiechi, the Chinese foreign minister, visited Africa, he made China-Africa cooperation on climate change a priority in talks.
 ''I think that the Chinese definitely feel quite beaten up in Copenhagen,'' said Yang Ailun, the climate and energy campaign manager at Greenpeace China, ''and what's quite worrying is that there was a sense among the Chinese officials that, 'Well, maybe we should just come to focus on our own domestic energy and domestic issues.' ''
 The government's lead negotiator, Su Wei, said at a Chinese academic forum in December that the United States and European countries had played ''tricks'' in Copenhagen to heap pressure on China, according to a government-run Web site.
 At the climate talks, frustration by the Chinese burst into the open when Xie Zhenhua, the top Chinese climate official, yelled and wagged his finger at Mr. Obama, say conference attendees. Mr. Wen, the prime minister, told the interpreter to ignore Mr. Xie's remarks -- a sign of the discord that attendees said plagued the Chinese ranks.
 Chinese officials were ill prepared to offer any concessions. They had gone to Copenhagen thinking that other nations would be satisfied with the announcement that China planned to cut carbon emissions per unit of economic growth, so-called carbon intensity, by 40 to 45 percent below 2005 levels by 2020.
 China and India have long rejected pledging to cut absolute emissions. Instead, they promise they can slow the growth of emissions while sustaining booming economies. Cutting carbon intensity will not reduce China's emissions; some analysts predict emissions could grow by up to 90 percent from 2005 to 2020.
 Chinese officials insist the carbon intensity cut will require ambitious measures. But Michael A. Levi, a climate change expert at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said China's carbon intensity goal did not deviate greatly from what he called ''business as usual,'' reductions likely to occur under policies already put in place by 2009. The effort is important, he said, but ''does not indicate any new decision to fundamentally change course in the future.''
 Some environmentalists have praised China's goal and say China will have to make great efforts to achieve it. Barbara Finamore, who heads the China program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, based in Washington, said the fact that China put in place relatively progressive policies before Copenhagen did not mean those policies should be considered ''business as usual.''
 At Copenhagen, China also conceded at the final session to language that would require countries to report their carbon reduction numbers for international analysis. Earlier in December in Beijing, President Hu Jintao trumpeted China's opposition to stringent international monitoring, calling it a ''vital interest'' on which China would not compromise, said an editor at a Communist Party newspaper.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Carbon Intensity: Because of its growing economy, China's carbon intensity -- emissions in relation to gross domestic product -- is much smaller than it was in 1990. But the reduction in intensity does not result in absolute emissions reductions. (Source: Energy Information Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); SOLAR ENERGY (86%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (69%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



871 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: A Radical Treasure

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
I had lunch with Howard Zinn just a few weeks ago, and I've seldom had more fun while talking about so many matters that were unreservedly unpleasant: the sorry state of government and politics in the U.S., the tragic futility of our escalation in Afghanistan, the plight of working people in an economy rigged to benefit the rich and powerful.
 Mr. Zinn could talk about all of that and more without losing his sense of humor. He was a historian with a big, engaging smile that seemed ever-present. His death this week at the age of 87 was a loss that should have drawn much more attention from a press corps that spends an inordinate amount of its time obsessing idiotically over the likes of Tiger Woods and John Edwards. 
 Mr. Zinn was chagrined by the present state of affairs, but undaunted. ''If there is going to be change, real change,'' he said, ''it will have to work its way from the bottom up, from the people themselves. That's how change happens.''
 We were in a restaurant at the Warwick Hotel in Manhattan. Also there was Anthony Arnove, who had worked closely with Mr. Zinn in recent years and had collaborated on his last major project, ''The People Speak.'' It's a film in which well-known performers bring to life the inspirational words of everyday citizens whose struggles led to some of the most profound changes in the nation's history. Think of those who joined in -- and in many cases became leaders of -- the abolitionist movement, the labor movement, the civil rights movement, the feminist revolution, the gay rights movement, and so on.
 Think of what this country would have been like if those ordinary people had never bothered to fight and sometimes die for what they believed in. Mr. Zinn refers to them as ''the people who have given this country whatever liberty and democracy we have.''
 Our tendency is to give these true American heroes short shrift, just as we gave Howard Zinn short shrift. In the nitwit era that we're living through now, it's fashionable, for example, to bad-mouth labor unions and feminists even as workers throughout the land are treated like so much trash and the culture is so riddled with sexism that most people don't even notice it. (There's a restaurant chain called ''Hooters,'' for crying out loud.)
 I always wondered why Howard Zinn was considered a radical. (He called himself a radical.) He was an unbelievably decent man who felt obliged to challenge injustice and unfairness wherever he found it. What was so radical about believing that workers should get a fair shake on the job, that corporations have too much power over our lives and much too much influence with the government, that wars are so murderously destructive that alternatives to warfare should be found, that blacks and other racial and ethnic minorities should have the same rights as whites, that the interests of powerful political leaders and corporate elites are not the same as those of ordinary people who are struggling from week to week to make ends meet?
 Mr. Zinn was often taken to task for peeling back the rosy veneer of much of American history to reveal sordid realities that had remained hidden for too long. When writing about Andrew Jackson in his most famous book, ''A People's History of the United States,'' published in 1980, Mr. Zinn said:
 ''If you look through high school textbooks and elementary school textbooks in American history, you will find Jackson the frontiersman, soldier, democrat, man of the people -- not Jackson the slaveholder, land speculator, executioner of dissident soldiers, exterminator of Indians.''
 Radical? Hardly.
 Mr. Zinn would protest peacefully for important issues he believed in -- against racial segregation, for example, or against the war in Vietnam -- and at times he was beaten and arrested for doing so. He was a man of exceptionally strong character who worked hard as a boy growing up in Brooklyn during the Depression. He was a bomber pilot in World War II, and his experience of the unmitigated horror of warfare served as the foundation for his lifelong quest for peaceful solutions to conflict.
 He had a wonderful family, and he cherished it. He and his wife, Roslyn, known to all as Roz, were married in 1944 and were inseparable for more than six decades until her death in 2008. She was an activist, too, and Howard's editor. ''I never showed my work to anyone except her,'' he said.
 They had two children and five grandchildren.
 Mr. Zinn was in Santa Monica this week, resting up after a grueling year of work and travel, when he suffered a heart attack and died on Wednesday. He was a treasure and an inspiration. That he was considered radical says way more about this society than it does about him. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); LGBT RIGHTS (63%)

COMPANY: WARWICK HOTEL (55%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (57%); TIGER WOODS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



872 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Symphony Agrees On Contract

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
The Seattle Symphony's musicians and management have agreed on a contract after contentious negotiations that included a strike authorization. The agreement, which was announced on Thursday and requires ratification by both sides, includes a 5 percent pay cut through August with a restoration of the cut by early 2011 and a 1.5 percent raise at the beginning of the 2011-12 season. The players also agreed to donate $2,010 each, or $168,840, back to the orchestra. The symphony's minimum wage is $78,750, not including the reduction, although most of the musicians earn more than that. The concessions by the players are in line with moves at many orchestras around the country in the recession. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); STRIKES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



873 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Refinery Losses Cut Chevron Profit 37%

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Chevron Corporation posted a 37 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit on Friday, missing analysts' forecasts, as steep refinery losses offset gains from increases in oil prices and production. 
 Global refining margins have suffered in recent months as rising crude oil prices have driven up costs, even as the weak economy has reduced demand for gasoline and diesel fuel.
 The weakness in Chevron's refinery operations overshadowed a 9 percent increase in oil and gas output in the quarter, mostly from new and expanded projects that lifted its proven reserves by 1.1 billion barrels.
 Chevron plans to increase spending off the coast of Western Australia this year; $3.5 billion of its $21.6 billion capital spending budget will go toward construction of its natural gas operations there.
 Chevron said it earned $3.07 billion, or $1.53 a share in the quarter, down from $4.9 billion, or $2.44 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $48.7 billion from $45.2 billion.
 The result fell short of the $1.70 a share expected by analysts and shares of Chevron, which is based in San Ramon, Calif., fell $1.12, or 1.53 percent, to close at $72.12.
 Chevron said its refining, marketing and transportation operations lost $613 million in the quarter, after posting a profit of $2.1 billion a year earlier.
 The company's exploration and production operations earned $4 billion, up from $3.2 billion a year earlier.
 The chief executive, John S. Watson, on his first call with analysts since taking the job about a month ago, said it was premature to talk of closing refineries. But Mr. Watson said the company would seek cost reductions to improve results in that part of the business, known in the oil industry as the downstream operations. 
 Chevron will merge its chemicals arm with the rest of the downstream operations and will shift its focus over time to exploration and production, known as the upstream operations, Mr. Watson added.
 ''We have favored upstream investment for more than the last decade,'' he said. ''That has been a pattern I think you will see going forward.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Chevron station in Alameda, Calif., on Friday, when the company's shares fell $1.12, to $72.12. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MINING OUTPUT (73%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (93%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



874 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Bin Laden Adds Climate Change to List of Grievances Against U.S.

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Osama bin Laden, the leader of Al Qaeda, blamed the United States and developed countries for not halting climate change and said that the global economy should immediately abandon its reliance on the American dollar, according to an audiotape released Friday by the broadcaster Al Jazeera. 
 ''Talk about climate change is not an ideological luxury but a reality,'' Mr. bin Laden was quoted as saying in a report on Al Jazeera's English-language Web site. ''All of the industrialized countries, especially the big ones, bear responsibility for the global warming crisis.''
 The authenticity of the tape could not be immediately confirmed, and Al Jazeera, which is based in Qatar, did not say how it had obtained the message. 
 But if substantiated, it would be Mr. bin Laden's second public message within a week. On Sunday, Al Jazeera broadcast a one-minute tape in which Mr. bin Laden hailed the Dec. 25 attempt to bring down a plane bound for Detroit and warned of more attacks against the United States. 
 Mr. bin Laden, who is believed to be hiding in Pakistan near the Afghanistan border and has issued several other taped anti-West invectives, had not put one out in four months before the one about the attempted airline bombing.
 In the message broadcast on Friday, Mr. bin Laden veered away from his traditional vows to inflict death and destruction on the United States, and instead discussed climate change, globalization and monetary policy in a message that he said was directed to ''the whole world.'' 
 He called for a worldwide boycott of American goods and the dollar. He faulted the United States for failing to sign the Kyoto Protocol, which sought to curb global warming by restricting greenhouse gas emissions. And he offered a word of praise for Noam Chomsky, the American linguist and liberal political activist.
 ''Noam Chomsky was correct when he compared the U.S. policies to those of the Mafia,'' Al Jazeera quoted Mr. bin Laden as saying. ''They are the true terrorists, and therefore we should refrain from dealing in the U.S. dollar and should try to get rid of this currency as early as possible.''
 Bank and government officials in China, Russia and elsewhere have previously floated the idea of abandoning the dollar as the world's reserve currency, replacing it with a basket of other currencies and commodities like gold. 
 But Mr. bin Laden's aim in turning away from the dollar appears to be to inflict harm on the American economy.
 ''I am certain that such actions will have grave repercussions and huge impact,'' he was quoted as saying.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); LINGUISTICS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); EMISSIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ORGANIZED CRIME (65%); BOYCOTTS (64%); MONETARY POLICY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



875 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Sets High Goals for Energy

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
Massachusetts state officials on Friday announced new energy efficiency standards for utilities that aim to be the most ambitious in the nation. 
 The plan calls for a statewide reduction of 2.4 percent in electricity use and 1.15 percent in natural gas use annually for three years. The savings are to be achieved largely through $1.6 billion in incentives for utility customers who take certain steps to conserve energy, like insulating their houses or replacing conventional light bulbs with compact fluorescent ones.
 The reductions were mandated by the Green Communities Act, passed by the state legislature in 2008. But the bill did not specify the reduction goals or how they were to be reached. The State Department of Public Utilities approved the specifics late Thursday. 
 Utilities, regulators and energy advocates haggled for months to reach the 2.4 percent annual reduction goal, a figure considered to be close to the upper limit of what can be achieved annually through such programs. The utilities' success in reaching that goal will be measured in a way that accounts for outside factors like normal growth in the demand for electricity -- which averages just under 2 percent a year -- and the recession, which can decrease energy use.
 ''The Green Communities Act established energy efficiency as the Commonwealth's 'first fuel' -- what we look to first to power our homes and our economy,'' Ian A. Bowles, the state's secretary for energy and environmental affairs, said in a written statement. 
 ''We are off and running,'' Mr. Bowles said, ''pulling out all the stops to cut energy waste, save money and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in buildings across Massachusetts.''
 At the heart of the plan is a quadrupling of annual spending for consumer outreach and conservation incentive programs to about $600 million from $150 million. Money will be available to consumers for services like free energy audits, and rebates will be offered for the purchase of energy-efficient appliances and air-conditioners.
 Massachusetts officials say the state will surpass California in spending per person on conservation measures. It is assumed that the conservation initiatives will translate reliably into energy savings. 
 The nonprofit American Council for an Energy- Efficient Economy ranked California No. 1 and Massachusetts No. 2 respectively in its 2009 survey of the most energy-efficient states. Steve Nadel, its executive director, said that while a switch in those rankings was not certain, it was likely.
 ''If Massachusetts does everything in the plan that was approved today,'' Mr. Nadel said, ''I'll say there is a very good chance they will pass California in our score. We always like a little friendly competition between the states.''
 Officials in Massachusetts said that the plan's upfront cost of more than $1 billion would be covered partly through fees paid by consumers and partly through auctioning pollution allowances and through other revenue sources. Massachusetts auctions these allowances as part of the 10-state carbon trading system called the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. 
 Under the system, states impose caps on the amounts of carbon dioxide that power plants can emit and hold an auction for emissions permits under those caps. Eighty percent of revenue from the auction in Massachusetts is intended to go into the efficiency program.
 Consumers will eventually reap $6 billion in savings on their utility bills from the efficiency plan, even after accounting for the added fees, the officials predicted. 
 A study by Environment Northeast, a local advocacy group, estimated that putting the measures into effect would also create 25,000 jobs.
 ''The job creation and consumer savings will provide timely relief across the state, and carbon pollution will be slashed,'' said Sam Krasnow, a lawyer with the organization who sits on the council that helped devise the plan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (79%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); SALES REBATES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



876 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Believe It or Not, Existing-Home Sales Were Up in '09

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
WHEN prices fall far enough, buyers will appear.
 That seems to have been the story of the American housing market in 2009. The number of existing homes that changed hands in 2009 -- 4.6 million -- was up 5 percent from the previous year. It was the first annual increase since 2005. 
 But to accomplish that, prices had to be cut sharply. The median sales price was $173,200, compared with $196,600 in 2008.
 Adjusted for inflation, that price was the lowest since 1997. As the accompanying chart shows, not since 2005 has the price of the median existing home risen in real dollars.
 For those four years, the inflation-adjusted price has fallen 28 percent, something few homeowners thought possible before it happened. They were more used to the previous four years, when the median price outstripped inflation by a total of 27 percent.
 The increase in sales was not only because of rising demand. Foreclosures forced many people out of homes, despite government efforts to get banks to restructure mortgages.
 Sales of new homes continued to sink, even with help from a tax credit for new homebuyers. For the year, just 373,000 new single-family homes were sold, the lowest total since the government began keeping count in 1963.
 That appears to have been caused, as much as anything, by the excess supply of such homes. It is taking a long time to work that off, and in some communities it may never be worked off, as foreclosures and partly built homes make some neighborhoods unattractive for all but the most desperate.
 New-home sales have always been volatile, rising when the economy is strong and interest rates are low, and declining when one or both of those factors are absent. But those ups and downs tended to balance out.
 Over every 10-year period from the 1960s to the late 1990s, annual sales of new homes averaged from about 540,000 homes to 650,000 homes. But after that, the figure began to climb steadily. The recession of 2001 hardly made a dent in sales, as the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates. 
 The 10-year average peaked in 2006 at 995,000 homes. Even after the disastrous performance in 2009, the 10-year figure is still over 900,000.
 Prices of new homes have come down as well as those of existing homes, but not as rapidly. That, too, may have held sales back. Adjusted for inflation, the median price of a new home in 2009 was 18 percent below the 2005 figure, compared with the 28 percent drop for existing home prices.
 The supply of completed but unsold new homes ended 2009 at 99,000. That is half the peak level reached in early 2008, but many of those homes no longer look new. On average, it has been more than 13 months since they were completed.
 In the accompanying charts, there may be hope to be found from the early 1980s, when the plunge in sales was comparable to this one. When the economy finally picked up, home sales skyrocketed from pent-up demand.
 Perhaps that will happen again. The big difference, however, is in prices. While inflation-adjusted prices declined during that downturn, high inflation meant that nominal prices did not. Unlike now, few homeowners owed more than their houses were worth. That is why some economists think a way must be found to reduce the amounts owed by some homeowners. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: U.S. Housing Market in 2009 (Sources: Census Bureau, Bureau of Labor Statistics and National Association of Realtors, all via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



877 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Court Finds Vivendi Liable For Misleading Investors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A jury ruled on Friday in favor of shareholders who said the French media group Vivendi lied to the public about its shaky finances, setting the stage for a possible distribution of billions of dollars in damages to investors. 
 The company was found liable, but not its executives, according to the verdict in United States District Court in Manhattan.
 The jury deliberated for 14 days before reaching its verdict. Vivendi said it would appeal. 
 Lawyers for the investors said that the potential payout could total $9.3 billion. Arthur Abbey, one shareholders' lawyer, said he believed the award was the largest securities class-action jury verdict in history, measured by the number of people affected and the dollars involved. 
 A lawyer for Vivendi said it was impossible at this stage to estimate actual damages because it was not clear how many investors were in the class and who would seek payouts.
 Lawyers on both sides said any potential payment was more than a year away. 
 Thousands of investors from the United States, France, Britain and the Netherlands said Vivendi covered up its troubles in 2001 and 2002 as the onetime public water company grew into a media and communications empire. The company flirted with bankruptcy before reorganizing successfully.
 Jean-Marie Messier, who took over the company's top post in 1996, was forced out as chief executive in July 2002, when the company was known as Vivendi Universal.
 Defendants in the trial were Vivendi, Mr. Messier and the former chief financial officer, Guillaume Hannezo.
 The jury concluded on 57 separate claims that Vivendi was 100 percent responsible for misstatements or omissions that misled shareholders. It concluded that Mr. Messier and Mr. Hannezo were not responsible.
 It found that Vivendi acted recklessly rather than knowingly in causing the damages. It also concluded that at times the misstatements or omissions inflated the company's stock by as much as $11 a share.
 The amount of money plaintiffs will receive if the verdict stands is based on the jury's calculation of how much the shares were inflated as a result of Vivendi's alleged misdeeds.
 Outside court, a Vivendi attorney, Paul Saunders, said the company was disappointed and was focused on its appeal, which he said ''we expect to win.''
 ''We feel very good about the appeal,'' he said, adding that the company would ask the judge within a month to toss out the case entirely.
 He said the company was pleased that the jury gave the plaintiffs only half of the rate per share that they were requesting.
 ''To that extent, this is a partial victory for us,'' he said.
 He said that if the case was not thrown out, it would take at least a year to determine how many people deserved compensation and how much money was at stake.
 ''We have just really begun to fight,'' he said. ''We are going to challenge everything we can challenge.''
 Mr. Saunders said the company would challenge on appeal whether the court had proper jurisdiction over a foreign company, whether it was proper to calculate damages by estimating the amount of inflation that resulted to share prices and whether the judge's rulings were wrong during the trial.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vivendi's former chief executive Jean-Marie Messier. The court ruled that while Vivendi was liable, its executives were not. (PHOTOGRAPH NATALIE BEHRING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VERDICTS (93%); JURY TRIALS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); LAWYERS (90%); DAMAGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); JUDGES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%)

COMPANY: VIVENDI (93%)

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (93%); VIV (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (88%); NETHERLANDS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



878 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: In Borrowing From Family, the Jobless Pay in Ego

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Megan Thee-Brenan in New York contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WARRENTON, Ore. 

 BODY:
After Jean Ley lost her job as a mental health counselor in June 2008, she quickly realized how limited her options were. She had little savings. Unemployment benefits were not going to be enough to pay her bills. She was at risk of losing her home here on the Oregon coast. 
 As a last resort, Ms. Ley, 62, turned to her family. Her older brothers conferred with her son, Matt, and agreed that one of them would help pay her bills if needed.
 But the assistance proved more than temporary. A year and half later, her son's regular payments covering her mortgage and occasional emergencies, like a car repair or arthritis medication, have proven to be her bulwark from economic catastrophe. 
 ''If my family weren't able to help me out at this point, I wouldn't have a home,'' she said. ''And I would be struggling.''
 As joblessness persists, credit cards max out and the government's safety net has grown thin, many Americans have turned to a patchwork quilt of family members and friends to stave off eviction, keep their electricity running or cover an unexpected medical bill. It is an underground banking system, complete with lenders and borrowers. 
 But borrowing from others can be complicated. In interviews, more than two dozen unemployed adults who had borrowed from family or friends said the act of asking, even in these hard times, is often humbling; some even called it humiliating. It can be equally stressful for lenders, many of whom are also on shaky financial footing and can barely afford to extend a small amount -- especially when loans turn into gifts.
 ''I think money changes everything,'' said Matt Ley, of Seattle. ''It's a cliche, but when you lend money to a friend, when you lend money to family, it changes things.''
 More than half of the respondents to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll of 708 unemployed adults nationwide said they had borrowed money from friends or relatives. In most cases, their financial pictures were bleak. Nearly 80 percent of those who reported borrowing money said their family's financial situation was ''fairly bad'' or ''very bad,'' a significantly greater proportion than among those who had not had to borrow. 
 Nearly 40 percent of those who had been lent money received food stamps, compared with just 13 percent of those who had not.
 Younger unemployed adults were more likely to borrow money -- 61 percent of those under the age of 45 said they had. But more than a third of those over the age of 45 had as well.
 For adult children borrowing from parents -- by far the most common occurrence among those interviewed -- the act often meant acknowledging an uneasy dependence that many thought they had escaped long ago.
 ''Here I am, 38, and having to ask for help from my parents is just belittling,'' said Matt Gibbons of Kingsport, Tenn., who has accepted more than $2,000 from his mother to cover his bills since losing his job at a home improvement company in early 2008. 
 John Morris, 36, of Chicago had to go to the emergency room recently with a leg infection. Without health insurance after losing his job a year and a half ago, he applied for charity care from the hospital. But he still needed about $300 for antibiotics after being discharged. 
 Mr. Morris waited two and a half days before finally summoning the nerve to call his father, Rich, who had already lent him money for an emergency car repair. Rich Morris, who recently retired, eventually wired the money but only after checking some accounts to make sure he had enough.
 ''It's not like we have hundreds of thousands of dollars lying around in a slush fund that you can pull out and do these types of things,'' Rich Morris said.
 What became clear from interviews is that borrowing from family or friends is often done only with great reluctance. 
 Carlethaus Hopper, 35, of Sacramento was laid off from his job as a welder in September 2008. A few months later, his wife, Lura, 50, lost her position as a ticket clerk for Amtrak.
 They started pawning jewelry, even their wedding rings. But when they received a notice threatening them with eviction if they did not immediately pay the back monthly rent of $1,025, they had no recourse but to ask Ms. Hopper's 82-year-old father.
 Since then, the couple has turned to Ms. Hopper's father two more times, borrowing more than $3,000. Ms. Hopper also recently borrowed $2,000 from an old friend to pay for medication. 
 In most cases, according to interviews, repayment is left open-ended, given how bleak the odds of re-employment remain. Interest is usually not part of the agreement. Some lenders said they did not even expect to be repaid. But the borrowers often insist that they will as a matter of pride.
 After Christine Oxley, 56, and her husband lost their jobs at a nonprofit trade association in 2008, Ms. Oxley drew up a legal contract when she was forced to go to an elderly great-aunt for $40,000 after her husband had a heart attack and was hospitalized without health insurance. Some portion of the money was eventually going to be directed the Oxleys way in an inheritance, but Ms. Oxley insisted upon a formal agreement that required repayment within five years. ''I wanted her to know I wasn't going to walk away from this and I wasn't trying to get a handout,'' she said. 
 Some borrowers have exhausted their unemployment benefits, while others did not qualify in the first place. Even among those who have been able to draw benefits, like Ms. Ley, it is frequently not enough.
 The Leys' situation was complicated by the fact that Matt Ley and his wife, Sandy Brown, had lent his mother money to pay legal bills when she went through a messy separation from a partner several years ago that depleted her savings. The assistance became a source of tension in her son's marriage, prompting Mr. Ley and his wife to seek the help of a therapist.
 ''Emotionally, we had to readjust,'' said Ms. Brown, who works part time as a lawyer. ''How do we communicate in our marriage about this difficult issue without making anyone feel bad?''
 This time, Ms. Ley provided the couple with a detailed budget of how she was spending her money, down to cat food and haircuts, proving her frugality. Still, the $750 a month for the mortgage on her small modular home, along with some other bills, was not insignificant, even for a couple with means, forcing them to set aside other priorities.
 Mr. Ley, who is a commercial banker, said the exchange of money has pushed him and his mother apart in subtle ways. But he tries to maintain perspective.
 ''At some point, you have to step back and say, 'This is your mother, this is family, this is blood,' '' Mr. Ley said. ''And this is what you do when they have something bad happen to them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Matt Ley and his wife, Sandy Brown, have been helping Mr. Ley's mother pay her bills since she lost her job in June 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Her son's payments have been an economic bulwark for Jean Ley of Warrenton, Ore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (73%); FOOD STAMPS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



879 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: With Recall Expanding, Toyota Gives An Apology

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The president of Toyota issued his first apology Friday as his troubled automaker expanded its recall to include Europe and it rushed to complete its strategy to modify or replace millions of accelerator pedals.
 Although Toyota said it was nearing a decision on repairs, the influential publication Consumer Reports suspended its recommendation of Toyota's recalled models.
 Meanwhile, the supplier whose Canadian factory made the questionable pedals insisted that Toyota's remedies would not address the episodes in which drivers claim their vehicles accelerated out of control. 
 General Motors, whose Pontiac Vibe was among the vehicles recalled because it was built through a joint venture with Toyota, said late Friday that it had received ''several complaints of alleged sticking accelerator pedals'' in the last week. G.M. said that the vehicles ''were safely brought to a stop'' and that it was looking into the reports.
 In Davos, Switzerland, Akio Toyoda, the grandson of Toyota's founder, told a Japanese broadcaster that he was ''deeply sorry'' for the recalls, which have prompted the company to stop selling eight models in North America.
 In an interview Friday with the NHK television network, he said Toyota was working on a solution to the recalls. ''We hope to come up with a clear explanation as soon as possible.'' Mr. Toyoda, who was in Davos for the World Economic Conference, went on: ''Our customers always come first for us and they can feel safe in our cars, even today.''
 Despite reports that the company had identified a remedy, Toyota officials said late Friday that they had not decided how the cars would be repaired. A Toyota spokesman, Mike Michels, said the company was ''very very close'' and that the options included repairing the pedals or replacing them. However, it was unlikely one would be announced to consumers before next week. 
 Mr. Michels also said it had not been determined whether consumers would receive replacement pedals, or whether their cars would simply be repaired, which would be faster for Toyota. 
 On its Web site, Toyota said there would be ''rapid deployment'' of a remedy but did not go into detail. In all, nearly eight million cars worldwide are affected by two recalls.
 The pedal manufacturer, the CTS Corporation in Elkhart, Ind., has begun shipping replacement pedals to be installed at Toyota plants. Mr. Michels said those pedals would be available to consumers if needed, however.
 Analysts predicted it would be weeks, at least, before dealers could resume sales of the recalled models, including the top-selling sedans in the United States, the Camry and the Corolla.
 CTS, in a statement, took issue with Toyota's claim that the recall was made in part because partly depressed pedals could become stuck. CTS said that reports of unintended acceleration in some Toyota vehicles went back as far as 1999 but that it did not begin making pedals for Toyota until the 2005 model year.
 ''CTS believes that the rare slow return pedal phenomenon, which may occur in extreme environmental conditions, should absolutely not be linked with any sudden unintended acceleration incidents,'' the statement said. CTS said it was not aware of any crashes or injuries caused by one of its pedals becoming stuck.
 Mr. Michels replied that sticking pedals, and pedals that were caught in floor mats, were the two main reasons for accidents. ''There's a combination of things that can be contributing to the complaints. We have had sticking pedals and it's from one supplier,'' he said. 
 He added: ''I don't want to get into any kind of a disagreement with CTS. Our position on suppliers has always been that Toyota is responsible for the cars.''
 Toyota also appeared to leave open the possibility that anyone who bought a vehicle in the five days between Jan. 21, when it announced the recall of 2.3 million vehicles, and when it stopped selling those models this week could return the car. It said it would ''work with customers who have concerns about their vehicles on a case-by-case basis.''
 Consumer Reports said it would temporarily withhold its recommendation of the recalled models. It said that even though a problem was extremely rare and the models were ''fundamentally good cars,'' it was not comfortable endorsing them until the defect was resolved. 
 The models that Toyota has stopped selling accounted for one of every 10 new-vehicle sales in the United States in December and 57 percent of Toyota's sales in 2009. But the recalls are hurting Toyota's entire lineup.
 Edmunds.com, which publishes car-buying advice, said Friday that it expected sales of the Toyota brand to fall 75 percent while sales of the eight models were suspended. Automotive Lease Guide, which tracks cars' residual values, said Friday that it expected Toyotas to lose an additional 1 percent of value over three years, or 4 percent if the problem was not fixed quickly.
 The car rental company Avis, which this week said it would remove 20,000 Toyota vehicles from its fleet until they were repaired, addressed the uncertainty surrounding Toyota's vehicles in an e-mail message Friday. Avis said it would continue renting Toyota models not included in the recall, but would let customers choose another car if they prefer.
 Toyota owners who want to trade in their vehicle are being wooed by several of the carmaker's rivals. Chrysler and Hyundai were the latest to join the fray Friday, with $1,000 incentives for buyers who trade in a Toyota. The Hyundai deal is offered only through Monday on three models; Chrysler's is available through the end of February. G.M. and the Ford Motor Company already were offering similar deals, though Ford's is not limited to Toyota. Their discounts last until the end of February.
 ''We just heard from our dealers that this is something they thought would benefit them in the field,'' a Hyundai spokesman, Chris Hosford, said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Toyota dealership in Kamp-Lintfort, Germany. Toyota has expanded its recall of eight auto models into European countries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK AUGSTEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYOTA RECALLS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); PRODUCT RECALLS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SEDANS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (53%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: CTS CORP (80%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: CTS (NYSE) (80%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334412 BARE PRINTED CIRCUIT BOARD MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (74%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (71%) SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPE (90%); CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



880 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Another Inconvenient Truth

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Back last November. ... Wow, that seems like a long time ago. Health care was passing. Jay Leno was popular. Dinosaurs roamed the earth.
 As I was saying, last November, the Justice Department announced that the terror trial of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed would be held in Manhattan. Almost everyone in New York rallied around. This was seen as standing up to terrorism.
 ''It is fitting that 9/11 suspects face justice near the World Trade Center, where so many New Yorkers were murdered,'' said Mayor Michael Bloomberg. 
 Now everything's flipped. The politicians are running for the hills, and the issue has been repackaged as standing up to traffic jams.
 ''There are places that would be less expensive for the taxpayers and less disruptive,'' said Bloomberg.
 And the Justice Department is backing down. The trial will happen somewhere else. People in Lower Manhattan will breathe a sigh of relief.
 But this feels very wrong.
 The Bloomberg rebellion fits right into the sour, us-first mood that's settled over the country. It's part of the same impulse that caused Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska to decree that a historic overhaul of the country's messed-up health care system was not going to happen unless his home state got a special exemption from sharing the costs.
 Or the Not-in-My-Backyard uprising that followed President Obama's attempt to move the Guantanamo prisoners into American maximum-security lockups. No matter how remote the prison, local politicians said that the danger was too great to bear. Both of Montana's Democratic senators immediately decreed that their entire state was a no-go zone. 
 Or the Republican race to the other side of the room any time the Obama administration proposes anything. Rudy Giuliani, who watched ''in awe of our system'' when terrorist Zacarias Moussaoui was convicted in a civilian court in Virginia, instantly attacked the plans for the Manhattan trial. Giuliani kept finding everything Obama did worse and worse until he finally flipped completely over the edge and claimed that there had been no terrorist attacks in the United States during the Bush administration.
 It's all part of a cult of selfishness that decrees it's fine to throw your body in front of any initiative, no matter how important, if resistance looks more profitable. 
 The economy has a lot to do with this. So does Washington's increasing confidence that Barack Obama can be rolled. We're currently stuck in a place where people no longer feel as though they need to be part of the solution.
 Democrats are starting to join the Republicans' call to toss out the Constitution and try suspected terrorists in military courts. Some of the same senators who gave you the endless health care bill obstructions have already signed on, saying federal trials are too expensive and too dangerous.
 Safety is always a concern, but Al Qaeda doesn't operate like a season of ''24.'' Terrorists don't generally strike when it's most symbolic or best serves a story line. They do the things that happen to work out. So Barack Obama is inaugurated and the 9/11 anniversary passes in peace and quiet. Then a guy tries to explode his underwear while heading for the Detroit airport.
 New York's sudden resistance certainly wasn't about safety, even though Dianne Feinstein, chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, sent a whiny letter to the White House saying a trial in Manhattan could ''add to the threat.''
 The problem was inconvenience. People were fine with having the trial here until the police commissioner, Raymond Kelly, started describing his plans for permanently cordoning off a goodly chunk of Lower Manhattan. Businesses and residents hadn't appreciated what a huge, life-disrupting inconvenience standing up to terror could be. 
 And no one was applauding them for their potential sacrifice. If anything, they were regarded as saps for agreeing to go along with something that Montana found to be unacceptable risk.
 This is a change. The city experienced the worst of terrorism on 9/11, but we also saw the best of the country in the weeks that followed. People rushed in from everywhere -- often at great inconvenience -- to help. And for months afterward, you could not travel anywhere outside the state without having other Americans come up to you and ask if there was anything they could do. 
 They wanted a task. A whole nation was hungering to be inconvenienced for the common good. And President Bush's response was to give them a tax cut.
 Whatever muscles we used in cooperating have atrophied. Barack Obama ran for president promising to change that, and he hasn't. Part of the fault is his. Sometimes at crucial moments, there seems to be no hands on the tiller. The Republicans are impossible. Many Democrats are both frightened and greedy.
 But figuring out how we got here is irrelevant. We need to get out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PRISONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); JAY LENO (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); BEN NELSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



881 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FEMALE FACTOR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Women Betting on Wall Street Careers

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
 When Sallie Krawcheck was hired six months ago as president of global wealth and investment management at Bank of America, she was besieged with e-mail messages from current and former Wall Street women celebrating her return to the fray.
 Ms. Krawcheck had been forced out as head of a comparable unit at Citigroup in August 2008, a highly publicized departure. Hers has been the only comeback among the three highest-ranking Wall Street women removed during the financial crisis. 
 ''I don't think I set foot in a restaurant where some woman did not come up to me and thank me for getting knocked around and going back in,'' Ms. Krawcheck, 45, recalled in an interview at Bank of America's corporate office in New York. ''It was unexpected and quite fantastic.''
 The outpouring over Ms. Krawcheck's return reflects deep anxiety among women in the financial industry that their career paths are narrowing even as business picks up again.
 Women have always been drawn to finance in smaller numbers than men. But after nearly two decades of increased hiring and promotion of women on Wall Street, their ranks appear to be shrinking again.
 The reasons are varied and unclear. But some finance executives say that as the work force has shrunk over all in finance, there was bound to be a noticeable impact on women because their numbers were smaller to begin with. They also cite the big banks' increasing reliance on trading, a part of the business that has been especially difficult for women to penetrate.
 ''The last 15 years before the financial meltdown was a period of gains for women,'' said Linda Friedman, a partner at Stowell & Friedman, a Chicago law firm that represents plaintiffs in discrimination lawsuits. But, she added, ''in the down economic times, the greatest casualties have been women.''
 Neither of the other two top-ranking Wall Street women -- Zoe Cruz, the former co-president at Morgan Stanley, and Erin Callan, the former chief financial officer at Lehman Brothers -- has resurfaced in a permanent position at a major firm. 
 Ms. Cruz declined to comment for this article, although she plans to start her own hedge fund, according to a person close to her. Ms. Callan, through her lawyer, Steve Eckhaus, also declined to comment.
 On Jan. 11, Citigroup Teresa A. Dial stepped down after a controversial tenure as head of its North American consumer banking unit. 
 Even though women are gaining ground on men enrolled in business school -- they constituted 39.3 percent of full-time students in American business schools in 2009, compared with 34.1 percent five years earlier, according to the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools -- the percentage of those women headed for finance or accounting jobs is dropping.
 Of those female graduates, 21.1 percent were pursuing finance or accounting in 2009, down 6.6 percentage points from 2005, according to the Graduate Management Admission Council, a nonprofit group of business schools. The rate also dropped for men, but less drastically -- falling 4.7 percentage points this year to 25.4 percent.
 In the United States, women also appear to be leaving finance and insurance faster than men. The number of women in those sectors declined 4.7 percent from the end of 2006 to the end of 2008, while the number of men fell 3.3 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 Women rose on Wall Street in the boom years, when hiring was brisk and a series of lawsuits challenged the domination of men in the industry. Ms. Friedman recalled the class-action lawsuit against Merrill Lynch in 1996, when just six women were in charge at Merrill's 140 branches -- 4.3 percent of the total. 
 The share of women there rose as high as 25 percent in the years after the suit was settled in 1998, Ms. Friedman said. Selena Morris, a Merrill spokeswoman, said the company had more women running branches today than in 2000.
 Women have maintained a strong presence in some areas in finance, including wealth management. Among the highest ranking in that specialty is Mary C. Erdoes, who is chief executive of asset management at JPMorgan Chase, a role that includes wealth management. ''They have moved up because they populate that business,'' building client relationships well, Ms. Krawcheck said.
 And a growing number of women run investment portfolios at college and prep school endowments. The Harvard endowment, the largest in the United States, is managed by Jane Mendillo. 
 But in the heart of Wall Street, the aggressive environment on the trading floor is often cited as a reason that women are rare at the top. Others cite the dearth of women to aid in career networking.
 Whatever the reason, ascending the ladder is much harder for women, said Bruce C. Greenwald, a professor of finance and strategy at Columbia University Business School.
 ''It is more difficult for women to come back because the environment in financial institutions is generally more hostile to women,'' he said. ''This culture has developed over a very long period of time, and it has been exacerbated as the firms' emphasis has shifted from traditional investment banking to sales and trading, which is an even more macho culture.''
 Several industry experts point out that turnover at the top has been high for both men and women.
 One factor in Ms. Krawcheck's comeback was the support she received from those who know her, including Anne M. Finucane, Bank of America's global strategy and marketing officer. Ms. Finucane did not respond to a request for comment. 
 Ms. Krawcheck said that during her year off, she had struggled to decide, as she put it, ''what I want to be when I grow up.'' She looked into starting her own business or going to a smaller firm. But the attraction of returning to a large bank proved irresistible.
 ''When I got the call,'' she said, ''it took me exactly two minutes to make up my mind.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2010

 CORRECTION:
 An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the global strategy and marketing officer at Bank of America. It is Anne Finucane, not Ann.
 An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the global strategy and marketing officer at Bank of America. It is Anne Finucane, not Ann.
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sallie Krawcheck of Bank of America received an outpouring of support from women when she returned to Wall Street after being away a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (83%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); RETAIL BANKING (73%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); RANKINGS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); LITIGATION (68%); LAWYERS (68%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (62%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%)

PERSON: ZOE CRUZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



882 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FACT CHECK; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Searching for Some Light Amid the Heat

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; David D. Kirkpatrick and Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When President Obama squared off with House Republicans in a question-and-answer session on Friday, perhaps no issue was more contentious than health care. Among Mr. Obama's boldest assertions was that Democrats had put forward a mostly centrist plan and that Republicans attacked it as ''some Bolshevik plot.'' 
 Generally speaking, the president's assessment was accurate. The Democrats' health care bill would preserve, and broadly expand, the existing system of private, employer-sponsored health insurance, while also offering subsidies to help moderate-income Americans buy private coverage through new government-regulated markets. 
 Republicans, however, have incessantly criticized the plan as a ''government takeover.'' Last summer, some rank-and-file Republicans falsely asserted that the Democrats' bill would create ''death panels'' to limit medical care for the elderly. And Mr. Obama accurately noted that many experts say the legislation stakes out middle ground. 
 Some health policy issues raised during Friday's session could be fairly debated. 
 But independent experts have analyzed the major health care proposals in Congress, and their findings indicate Mr. Obama had the facts on his side in an exchange with Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia, who said Republicans had put forward proposals that could provide universal coverage ''without raising taxes by a penny.'' 
 ''If you say we can offer coverage for all Americans and it won't cost a penny, that's just not true,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You can't structure a bill where suddenly 30 million people have coverage, and it costs nothing.'' 
 The main House Republican health care proposal, which the Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, offered as a substitute for the Democrats' bill, would have extended coverage to about 3 million people by 2019, while leaving about 52 million uninsured, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. 
 The House Democrats' bill, by contrast, would extend health benefits to roughly 36 million people over the same time period, leaving about 21 million uninsured, the budget office said. 
 The cost of coverage provisions in the House Democrats' bill was about $1.05 trillion over 10 years, according to the budget office, while the cost of those provisions in the Republicans' bill was $61 billion. 
 Republican leaders said all along that expanding coverage was not their main goal, because they viewed it as unaffordable, and that they tailored their bill to reduce costs. Mr. Price has proposed legislation that would offer tax credits of up to $5,000 a year for a family of four to help pay for health insurance. The average cost of a family policy is more than $13,000 a year. 
 Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, landed a solid punch, however, when he asserted that Mr. Obama had been less transparent in health care negotiations than he had promised during his presidential campaign. ''When you stood up before the American people multiple times and said you would broadcast the health-care debates on C-Span,'' Mr. Chaffetz said. ''You didn't. I was disappointed, and I think a lot of Americans were disappointed.'' 
 Mr. Obama noted that many Congressional proceedings had been televised, but acknowledged that crucial meetings, including recent talks with Democratic Congressional leaders at the White House, were not. The administration has also not disclosed all details of its deals with various interest groups, including the pharmaceutical industry and hospital associations. 
 ''I take responsibility for not having structured it in a way where it was all taking place in one place that could be filmed,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 Mr. Chaffetz was not quite on target, however, when he accused Mr. Obama of breaking a promise to bar lobbyists from his administration and of failing to crack down on earmarks in Congressional spending bills. 
 In fact, President Obama spelled out the details of that pledge in writing during the campaign, including a procedure for waivers in certain instances. Responding to Mr. Chaffetz, the president noted that his administration had granted very few waivers and exceeded its predecessors in its limitations on lobbyists.
 Representative Mike Pence of Indiana and Mr. Obama clashed over the effects of the $787 billion stimulus package that Congress adopted last February with almost no Republican support.
 Mr. Pence said that an alternative Republican plan, which would have relied entirely on tax cuts, ''would have created twice the jobs at half the cost.'' Mr. Obama said that while Republicans ''can score political points on the basis of the fact that we underestimated how severe the job losses were going to be,'' the stimulus package ''probably'' accounted for about 2 million jobs.
 Calculating the stimulus's effect on employment relies on complex macroeconomic modeling and analysis of historical data. In November, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that by the end of October, an additional 600,000 to 1.6 million people were employed than would have been the case in the absence of the stimulus. Earlier this month, the president's Council of Economic Advisers, using similar models, put the number at 1.5 million to 2 million, as of the end of December. (Mr. Obama, not surprisingly, cited the high end of that range.)
 When Republicans put forward their stimulus proposal last January, they said tax cuts could create as many as 6.2 million jobs. While that estimate relied on a methodology that had been endorsed by the Council of Economic Advisers, it is next to impossible to know what that plan would actually have accomplished if it had been approved.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama was shown his chair Friday by John A. Boehner, with Representatives Eric Cantor, center, and Mike Pence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); AGING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MIKE PENCE (79%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); TOM PRICE (58%); JASON CHAFFETZ (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



883 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Presses Beijing to Support Penalties for Iran

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton warned China on Friday that it would face economic insecurity and diplomatic isolation if it did not sign on to tough new sanctions against Iran for its nuclear program, seeking to raise the pressure on Beijing to fall in line with an American-led campaign.
 Speaking to students at the Ecole Militaire, the prestigious French war college, Mrs. Clinton said, ''China will be under a lot of pressure to recognize the destabilizing effect that a nuclear-armed Iran would have'' in the Persian Gulf, ''from which they receive a significant percentage of their oil supply.'' 
 With Russia increasingly frustrated by Iran's recalcitrance, China has emerged as perhaps the lone holdout to a new United Nations resolution that would focus sweeping financial and economic sanctions on Iran's leadership, including a possible ban on sales of technology to its energy sector.
 Mrs. Clinton -- in a flurry of meetings this week in Europe, including one with the Chinese foreign minister -- has tried to build momentum for new measures against Iran. Britain, France and Germany back the effort, and Russia, which has often blocked previous efforts, now seems ready to act.
 Only China, which imports crude oil from Iran and has large investments in Iran's oil and gas sector, has said it would prefer to continue negotiating with the Iranian government. With a veto in the United Nations Security Council, it could block a move to impose more sanctions.
 ''We understand that right now, that is something that seems counterproductive to you, sanction a country from which you get so much of the natural resources your growing economy needs,'' Mrs. Clinton said, referring to the Chinese, in comments after a speech on European security. ''But think about the longer-term implications.''
 American officials have been making this argument privately to the Chinese for weeks, as the United States tries to win them over for new sanctions. But this is the first time Mrs. Clinton has publicly made the link between China's energy security and the alarm over Iran's nuclear ambitions.
 In case Beijing missed the urgency of her appeal, Mrs. Clinton remarked that a nuclear-armed Iran would risk setting off an arms race in the Persian Gulf, and that it could provoke a military strike from Israel, which she said would regard a nuclear Iran as an ''existential threat.''
 Tensions between China and the United States have flared recently over a range of issues, most notably Internet freedom and Google's announcement that its systems had been hacked by sources in mainland China. Unprompted, Mrs. Clinton alluded to another source of friction: President Obama's plan to meet with the Dalai Lama, whom Beijing condemns as a subversive.
 China, she said, should not allow such irritants to derail its otherwise ''positive, comprehensive'' relationship with the United States.
 Mrs. Clinton was in London and Paris this week for meetings on Afghanistan and Yemen, and for her security speech. But jitters about Iran and its nuclear ambitions have shadowed her at every stop.
 In London, Mrs. Clinton brought along specialists on sanctions from the Treasury Department to talk to Chinese officials about technical issues, like how the Iranian government transfers money to banks in Asia to avoid restrictions on its transactions in Western banks.
 Mrs. Clinton met Thursday with the Chinese foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, who was attending the Afghanistan conference. A senior administration official said Mr. Yang listened to the American arguments but reiterated his government's preference to stick with negotiations.
 International patience with Iran has frayed, particularly since Iranian authorities backed out of a deal to ship a significant portion of their lightly enriched uranium to France or Russia to be further enriched for medical purposes. 
 Frustration with Iran is also mounting on Capitol Hill, where the Senate passed its own sanctions bill on Thursday. Mrs. Clinton said the administration would focus on obtaining a United Nations resolution, though she said the Senate's legislation could end up being ''complementary.''
 As part of the effort to broaden and toughen sanctions, the Obama administration is expected to push to add financial institutions to the blacklist of those helping Iran's nuclear program.
 The focus of these sanctions, Mrs. Clinton has said, would be on Iran's leadership, particularly members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. Many in the corps also played a role in cracking down on the enduring protests after Iran's disputed presidential election in June.
 Mrs. Clinton, who met the French president Nicolas Sarkozy, earlier in the day, said she applauded his ''leadership on this issue.''
 Her address on European security, the main reason for her stop in Paris, was meant to answer recent Russian proposals to revamp security arrangements on the continent, including major arms treaties.
 The United States, Mrs. Clinton said, opposed negotiating new security treaties, saying that would be time-consuming and cumbersome. Instead, she said she wanted to strengthen existing institutions.
 ''The United States and Russia will not always agree,'' she said. ''Our interests will not always overlap. But when we disagree, we will seek constructive ways to discuss and manage our differences.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, at the Elysee Palace in Paris on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE WOJAZER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); VETO (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DALAI LAMA (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%) CHINA (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GULF STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



884 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Iran, After the Deadline

 BODY:
Iran has again proved to be a master at playing for time. Six months after a new diplomatic overture from Washington and its partners, Tehran has shown no interest in resolving the dispute over its nuclear program. It is time for President Obama and other leaders to ratchet up the pressure with tougher sanctions.
 Mr. Obama, who offered a new relationship with Iran, gave its government until the end of 2009 to come to the table. In his State of the Union address this week, he warned Iran's leaders that they face ''growing consequences'' if they continue to ignore their obligations. 
 Four years after the United Nations Security Council first demanded that Iran stop enriching uranium (usable for nuclear fuel or a bomb), Tehran has thousands of centrifuges spinning. Washington plans to soon circulate a new sanctions resolution -- the fourth in four years. 
 Britain, France and Germany share Mr. Obama's concerns. Russia and China -- which have veto power on the Security Council and strong economic ties with Iran -- have previously insisted on watering down penalties. That has made the Council look feckless and made it far too easy for Iran to press ahead. On Friday, we were glad to see Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton publicly warn China, which seems especially intractable, that it faces diplomatic isolation if it fails to back new sanctions.
 Last fall, after Iran was caught hiding another illicit enrichment plant, the major powers offered Tehran a reasonable interim deal: open all of its nuclear facilities to international inspectors and send most of its stock of low-enriched uranium abroad to be turned into fuel for a research reactor. That wouldn't have solved the problem, but it would have bought more time for negotiations. A midlevel Iranian diplomat seemed to agree, but then higher-ups said no. Nothing has changed since. 
 This is a delicate time in Iran. Last June's fraudulent presidential election sparked fierce political protests and a brutal government crackdown -- including political executions. New United Nations sanctions must be deftly targeted to inflict maximum damage on the levers of repression -- especially the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, which also runs the nuclear program -- without imposing additional suffering on the Iranians. That circle must somehow be squared. And the door must remain open to negotiations. 
 If the Security Council does not act quickly, then the United States and Europe must apply more pressure on their own. The Senate on Thursday approved a bill that would punish companies for exporting gasoline to Iran or helping Iran expand its own petroleum refining capability. The House already had passed a similar version. That may be necessary at some point, but right now we are concerned that this approach will hurt too many Iranians outside the government. 
 Some experts say the government is so weakened that the United States should withdraw its offer to improve relations and focus solely on regime change. No one has put forward a compelling plan for achieving that, but military action would be a disaster. As we saw in Iraq, talk of regime change can be an unpredictable and dangerous game. 
 Iran is already, predictably, claiming that the homegrown opposition is a tool of the West. That is absurd. President Obama needs to speak out more strongly on behalf of Iranians who are peacefully seeking change. But the United States and its partners also must be very conscious of the fierce pride and independence of the Iranian people. Squaring that circle will be extremely hard, but it must be done. Meanwhile, the centrifuges keep spinning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); VETO (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (74%); CENTRIFUGES (74%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (93%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



885 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DAVOS 2010; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: In Davos, Bankers Look for Closer Bond With Policy Makers

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and JACK EWING

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
As a fresh snowfall melted slowly outside the Davos Congress Center, officials and bankers made plans to try to thaw their relationship.
 Regulators, central bankers and government leaders want to persuade bankers at several meetings that conclude Saturday that they should accept more stringent regulation, or face more draconian curbs from politicians responding to an angry public. 
 Banking executives met among themselves on Thursday, and many acknowledged the need to take a more active role in the public debate about financial regulation. 
 One head of a central bank who asked for anonymity said that he would consider the meetings a success if there was widespread agreement among bankers to cooperate more fully in creating regulations intended to avert another financial crisis.
 There has been wide discussion at the World Economic Forum, which began Wednesday, about the role banks played in the financial crisis. Several participants have said they hope the gatherings in Davos can help set the stage for more formal talks at forums like the Group of 20 nations, as well as at the national level.
 Similar meetings between bankers and government officials have taken place at Davos in the past, but the outrage over the large bonuses being paid by banks after benefiting from government bailouts has given this year's sessions a sense of purpose.
 Several bankers at Davos said that they had accepted the inevitability of more regulation and agreed that they should cooperate to create standards. ''None of us should kid ourselves it's going to be back to the way it was,'' Peter Sands, the chief executive of Standard Chartered Bank, based in London, said in a panel discussion.
 Mr. Sands called for a ''constructive dialogue'' on issues like how to deal with banks that cannot be allowed to fail for fear of endangering the financial system. Banks' resistance to change has only lowered the public's esteem of them, Mr. Sands said. ''We have been simultaneously tone-deaf and shooting ourselves in the foot.'' 
 Since the beginning of the year, Britain, France and the United States have made a string of policy proposals that would be added to higher capital requirements and other rules agreed on by the Group of 20.
 Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, said that banks ''have to be part of the solution.'' Paul Calello, head of Credit Suisse's investment banking business, acknowledged that the industry needed to deal with its reputation problem. ''We want to be seen as responsible players in the market,'' Mr. Calello said.
 ''The group is a bit embattled, and what you're trying to do is change the dialogue,'' said Duncan L. Niederauer, the chief executive of NYSE Euronext. ''So you sit down with politicians and say that, 'If you stop blaming us, we can come to a good solution.' ''
 Among bankers there is also resentment that they are being blamed for the recession. Josef Ackermann, the chief of Deutsche Bank, said he supported measures like requiring banks to keep more capital in reserve. But he complained that banks like Deutsche Bank, which did not need a bailout, were suffering for the sins of others.
 ''Only a few banks have failed the test of this crisis,'' Mr. Ackermann said. ''We should single out those who have made major mistakes.'' 
 Blame also lies with inefficient markets and poor policy making, he said.
 In a measure of the political momentum behind the changes, David Cameron, leader of Britain's Conservative Party, said that he supported President Obama's proposals to restrict risk-taking by banks and to impose a tax on bank liabilities, with the money used to insure against future losses. ''The relationship between society and banks has to change quite fundamentally,'' Mr. Cameron said.
 The charged political atmosphere makes some bankers skeptical that agreement is possible. ''Everybody is asking for the heads of the bankers,'' said Jorge Londono Saldarriaga, president of Bancolombia in Medellin.
 Some central bankers and regulators were equally skeptical and played down the offer of closer cooperation as an attempt to repair the banking industry's reputation.
 One central banker, who declined to be identified because he did not want to offend banking executives, said banks had the chance ''to regulate themselves and set aside larger capital cushions for a year during which they earned record profits but decided not to.''
 ''If they don't get their house together, we will do it for them,'' the banker said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Peter Sands, of Standard Chartered
David Cameron, a British politician
 and Jean-Claude Trichet on Friday in Davos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (61%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (54%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (54%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (54%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); NYX (PAR) (50%); NYX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (54%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (79%); PETER SANDS (76%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (56%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (55%); DUNCAN L NIEDERAUER (50%); PAUL CALELLO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



886 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Obama Outlines Plan to Increase Employment

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In proposing a one-year, $33 billion tax credit for small businesses, the Obama administration is simultaneously seeking to stimulate hiring by reducing payroll taxes and to turn its attention to a constituency that has historically been associated with Republicans. 
 Hours after the Commerce Department announced that economic growth had picked up at the end of last year, President Obama visited a machine plant in Baltimore on Friday to promote the plan, which would give companies a tax credit of up to $5,000 for each new hire and reimburse them for Social Security taxes if they expand their payrolls. The credit is capped at $500,000 for each employer. 
 ''Now is the perfect time for this kind of incentive because the economy is growing, but businesses are still hesitant to start hiring again,'' Mr. Obama said at the Chesapeake Machine Company, which makes custom industrial equipment. 
 Earlier this month, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office concluded that reducing the payroll taxes of employers would be the most cost-effective approach -- after extending unemployment benefits -- to stimulating economic output and job growth. 
 Even so, the proposal, which would be the first federal wage subsidy since the New Jobs Tax Credit in 1977-78, met with a wary response from Republicans.
 Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, the top Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees tax matters, said, ''A sprinkling here and there of a few poll-tested proposals won't provide enough help or get small businesses hiring again.''
 He said that business owners were alarmed about how Mr. Obama's proposals on health care and energy would affect their bottom line. 
 Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, who is the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, said in a statement that ''tax incentives that encourage job creation can help if they're done right.'' He added, however, that ''Congress will be swimming upstream with tax relief if it doesn't also do something about the bad environment for small-business growth.'' 
 The National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business lobby group that has traditionally been close with Republicans, also expressed skepticism. It said the $5,000 tax credit for new hires would only benefit ''a limited number of small employers'' but said the payroll-tax credit had potential. 
 Administration officials said the proposal was intended to offer the maximum incentives for employers to add workers, as well as to increase wages and working hours for current employees. 
 With the unemployment rate at 10 percent, the administration also wants a policy that can have an immediate effect.
 ''The president's plan is to make the credit retroactive to Jan. 1 of this year, so employers can go out and start hiring right now,'' said Alan B. Krueger, assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy. Employers would have the option of receiving the tax credit on a quarterly estimated basis, which would get the money into their hands earlier in the year and provide an added incentive to hire. 
 Mr. Krueger said the plan contained provisions to prevent abuse by employers seeking to get the tax credit and wage bonus by, for example, replacing a full-time worker with two part-time ones making the same total salary. The rules would also prevent companies from renaming themselves or merging to claim the credit. 
 ''We're not going to let you game the system to take advantage of the tax credit, unless you're doing right by your workers,'' Mr. Obama said in Baltimore. 
 One criticism of wage subsidies like the one in the 1970s, which Mr. Krueger said served in some ways as a model for the Obama administration's proposal, is that they benefit employers that would have hired new workers anyway. 
 At its peak, the 1977-78 program, established during the Carter administration, directly subsidized some 2.1 million new workers, the Congressional Budget Office found. But it is impossible to know what hiring would have been without the credit. Only a tiny fraction of employers that knew about the credit at the time said it had prompted them to hire more workers, one study found.
 Jason Furman, deputy director of the National Economic Council, said the new proposal addressed that problem by encouraging all forms of payroll expansion, not just hiring. ''We have very much been emphasizing that you get a tax cut not only for hiring additional workers but also for raising wages, increasing work hours and creating better-paid jobs,'' he said. ''We view this as having all the benefits of a normal tax cut, plus the extra benefit of job and wage incentives.'' 
 In combining a tax credit for new workers with a wage bonus for payroll expansion, the administration's proposal resembles elements from other recent proposals. 
 Under a plan announced this week by Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, companies that hire an unemployed worker would not have to pay the Social Security payroll tax on that worker for the duration of 2010. Another plan, put forward last October by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group, emphasizes expanding payrolls. It would refund 15 percent of new payroll costs in 2010 and 10 percent in 2011.
 Timothy J. Bartik, an author of the institute's plan, estimated on Friday that the president's proposal would create at least one million jobs at a cost of $30,000 a job. ''It will not solve the United States' current employment crisis, but it will make a significant dent in our employment problems,'' said Mr. Bartik, an economist at the W. E. Upjohn Institute for Employment Research in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
 The National Federation of Independent Business said it would prefer to see a payroll tax holiday extended to ''all small employers, not just to employers that can afford to increase wages,'' but the Obama administration believes such a plan would not do enough to stimulate hiring or wage increases. Such a plan would also provide a bigger benefit for higher-paid workers, while under the Obama plan, companies would not get credit for increasing wages on employees making more than $106,000, the maximum annual wage subject to Social Security taxes.
 Even so, Mr. Obama himself left room for negotiation. ''I'm open to any good ideas from Democrats or Republicans,'' he said in Baltimore. ''The key thing is it's time to put America back to work.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama toured the Chesapeake Machine Company in Baltimore Friday. (B1)
 President Obama talked to workers Friday at the Chesapeake Machine Company in Baltimore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); DAVE CAMP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%) MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



887 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Annuities Get Obama Fist Bump

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Annuities: The official retirement vehicle of the Obama administration.
 As slogans go, it's hardly ''Keep Hope Alive,'' or even ''Change We Can Believe In.''
 But there were annuities, in a report from the administration's Middle Class Task Force that came out this week. They are among the tools the administration is promoting as it tries to give Americans a better shot at a more secure retirement.
 At its simplest, which is how the White House seems to want to keep it, an annuity is something you buy with a large pile of cash in exchange for a monthly check for the rest of your life. 
 If the biggest risk in retirement is running out of money, an annuity can help guarantee that you won't. In effect, it allows you to buy the pension that your employer has probably stopped offering, and it can help pick up where Social Security leaves off. 
 President Obama did not discuss annuities in his State of the Union address on Wednesday night, probably figuring that viewers had enough problems staying awake. But the mere mention of them by the task force was enough to send executives at the insurance companies that sell the products into paroxysms of glee.
 ''I never thought I'd have the president as a wholesaler for us,'' said Christopher O. Blunt, executive vice president of retirement income security at the New York Life Insurance Company. ''This is awesome. I'm trying to see if I can get him to do a big broker meeting for us.''
 He's unlikely to turn up for such an event just yet. After all, the announcement from the White House did make it clear that the administration was looking to promote ''annuities and other forms of guaranteed lifetime income.'' That suggests the administration is open to other solutions, though there are not many others that are as simple as the basic fixed immediate annuity (also known as a single premium immediate annuity) that delivers a regular check for life. 
 Still, all of this attention from the president is a stunning turn of events for a rather unloved product. Many consumers reflexively run in fear when salesmen turn up pitching high-cost and complex variable annuities, which evolved from their simpler siblings decades ago. Today, the Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an extensive warning document on its Web site for investors considering the variable variety. 
 Meanwhile, almost all employees on the precipice of retirement who have access to annuities as a payout option steer clear when their companies offer them. While various surveys show that roughly 15 to 25 percent of corporations offer annuities to workers who are retiring, including big employers like I.B.M., a 2009 Hewitt Associates study reported that just 1 percent of workers actually bought one. 
 ''I joke sometimes that we're the best ice hockey players in Ecuador,'' said Mr. Blunt of New York Life, which sells more fixed annuities than any other company, according to Limra, a research firm that tracks the industry. 
 So what are these soon-to-be retirees so afraid of? And what makes the White House so sure it can change their minds?
 Let's start with the fears. Early on, the knock on annuities was that once you died, the money was gone. So let's say a 65-year-old man in Illinois turned over $100,000 in exchange for $632 a month for life, a recent quote from immediateannuities.com. If he died at 67, his heirs would get nothing while he would have collected only about $15,000. (On the other hand, it would take him until age 78 to get $100,000 back, but that doesn't take inflation into account.) 
 The industry solved this by coming up with variations on the policy, allowing people to include a spouse in the annuity or guarantee that payouts to beneficiaries would last at least 10 or 20 years. This costs extra, of course, meaning your monthly payment is lower.
 Others worried about inflation, so now there are annuities whose payments rise a few percentage points each year or are pegged to the Consumer Price Index. These cost extra, too (often a lot extra). 
 You see the pattern here. Every time someone had an objection -- the need for a bunch of payments at once, a lump sum in an emergency or concern about rising interest rates -- the industry created a rider to add to policies to make the concern go away (and make the monthly payment smaller).
 Besides, people need to have saved enough to purchase a decent monthly annuity payout in the first place. But plenty of retirees haven't been saving in a 401(k) or individual retirement account long enough to have a good-size lump sum.
 There are also stockbrokers and financial planners standing in the way. Once money goes into an annuity, they can't earn commissions from trading it anymore and may not be able to charge fees for managing it. Financial advisers have a charming term for this phenomenon -- annuicide. You insure, and their revenue dies. So, many of them will try to talk you out of it. 
 One reasonable point they might make is that insurance companies can die, leaving your annuity worthless. State guaranty agencies exist, but they may cover only $100,000 to $500,000. I've linked to a list of the agencies in the Web version of this column so you can see what they insure.
 Even if you get over all these mental hurdles, however, the hardest one may be the difficulty of seeing a big number suddenly turn small.
 ''It's the wealth illusion, the sense that my 401(k) account balance is the largest wad of dollars I'll ever see in my lifetime, and I feel pretty good about having that,'' said J. Mark Iwry, senior adviser to the secretary and deputy assistant secretary for retirement and health policy for the Treasury Department. ''Meanwhile, I feel pretty bad about the seemingly small amount of annuity income that large balance would purchase and about the prospect of handing it over to an entity that will keep it all if I'm hit by the proverbial bus after walking out of their office.'' So how might the Obama administration solve this? It could get behind a Senate bill that would require retirement plan administrators to give account holders an annual estimate of what sort of annuity check their savings would buy. That way, people would get used to thinking about their lump sum as a monthly stream. 
 Tax incentives could help, too. A recent House bill called for waiving 50 percent of the taxes on the first $10,000 in annuity payouts each year. ''If this is behavior that the administration is trying to inspire, then it's not that long of a leap to think that maybe they'll start to promote some version of these bills,'' said Craig Hemke, president of BuyaPension.com, which sells basic annuities (and offers some good educational material for people who are trying to learn about the products). 
 Mr. Iwry, who is one of the intellectual architects of the administration's examination of annuities, wouldn't say much about what might happen next. But one paper he co-wrote two years ago suggests a clue.
 As the treatise suggests, the administration could nudge employers into automatically depositing, say, half of new retirees' lump sums into a basic annuity or other lifetime income product, unless they opt out. Then, they could test the thing out for two years and see how that monthly paycheck felt. If they liked it, they could keep the annuity. If not, they could cancel it without penalty and get the rest of their money back. 
 Annuities won't be right for everyone (people in poor health should probably steer clear). And they're not right for everything because it rarely makes sense to put all of your money in a single product or investment. 
 You could, for instance, use an annuity to cover the basic expenses thatyour Social Security check doesn't cover. You might also use the money to buy long-term care insurance, which would keep nursing home bills from becoming a budget-destroyer. 
 But the president has one thing right: The basic annuity is almost certainly underused. Sure, you may be able to arrange a better income stream on your own, but not without a lot of help from a financial planner or a lot of time managing it yourself. Then there's the possibility, however small, that you'll spend too much in spite of yourself or run into a once-in-a-generation market event that will cause you to run out of money sooner than you expected. 
 All of that makes basic annuities the ultimate test of risk aversion. If you buy some, you and your heirs may have less money than if you'd kept your retirement savings in investments. Then again, if you guarantee enough of your retirement income, you -- and those same heirs -- won't have to worry about how you're going to meet your basic needs. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B1
 B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); ANNUITIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INSURANCE (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (66%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (82%); AON HEWITT (80%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (80%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (80%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



888 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew At Vigorous Pace In Last Quarter

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
The United States economy grew at its fastest pace in more than six years at the end of 2009, even as businesses resisted hiring and continued to do more with less.
 The broadest measure of economic activity, gross domestic product, expanded at an annual rate of 5.7 percent in the fourth quarter, after a 2.2 percent increase the previous quarter. 
 ''It was an excellent report, but it's not clear how sustainable this pace of growth is,'' said John Ryding, chief economist of RDQ Economics. 
 The growth rate was the fastest since the third quarter of 2003, when the economy grew at a rate of 6.9 percent. But even 2009's fourth-quarter surge was not enough to overcome a terrible start to the year. The economy finished 2009 with its biggest contraction since 1946, when the country was still cooling off from World War II. 
 The Obama administration seized on news of the latest upturn as an opportunity to push its proposal to encourage hiring. Companies would receive a tax credit of up to $5,000 for each new hire, and an additional credit on Social Security payroll taxes for raising wages -- by increasing hourly pay or work hours, for example -- in excess of inflation. 
 ''Now's the perfect time for this kind of incentive because the economy is growing, but businesses are still hesitant to start hiring again,'' President Obama said in Baltimore.
 The economy has been able to grow even without adding workers because employers have found ways to accomplish more with fewer workers. Productivity grew at a robust rate of 8.1 percent in the third quarter of 2009, the most recent data available. 
 The single biggest factor in the strong growth rate last quarter was not consumers buying more, but businesses letting their stockpiles shrink at a slower rate than they had been previously. 
 For example, a bike company usually keeps its warehouse well stocked. In tough times, it cuts production and sells what it already has in the warehouse. 
 When its financial worries ease, the company still does not fully replenish its warehouses, but it lets its inventories shrink at a slower pace. 
 Because of the way the government calculates growth, this business moderation translates into an increase in output. The change in inventories added 3.4 percentage points to the growth rate in the final quarter of 2009. 
 Those inventory changes alone cannot sustain growth over an extended period of time. Economists are hoping that once business executives become more confident about the recovery, they may increase production to refill their stockroom shelves. 
 ''What goes down wildly has to go up at a pretty good clip,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG. 
 So far, though, final sales to consumers and businesses have been disappointing. Consumer spending grew at an annualized pace of 2 percent in the fourth quarter, after an increase of 2.8 percent in the third quarter. That is better than many had feared when the quarter began, considering the end of the cash-for-clunkers program that had helped stimulate auto spending. Still, in the past, consumption has been a much bigger driver of growth after a recession. 
 Many analysts foresee tepid growth in the months ahead. Ian Shepherdson, of High Frequency Economics, expects output to expand by just 1 or 2 percent, at an annualized rate, this quarter and next. 
 The biggest challenge in the near future is the job market. 
 On net, the economy lost 208,000 nonfarm payroll jobs last quarter, and the unemployment rate rose to 10 percent, from 9.7 percent. As long as the labor market remains weak, consumers -- whose purchases make up the bulk of economic output each quarter -- will be reluctant to spend money. That means businesses will need to look for other sources of demand, like exports. 
 Perhaps the most promising aspect of Friday's report in terms of jobs was the pickup in equipment and software spending.
 Businesses increased their investment in these areas at an annualized rate of 13.3 percent last quarter, compared with an increase of 1.5 percent in the third quarter.
 ''Businesses that are spending more on equipment and software are probably going to be hiring more as well,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight. ''If we see more hiring, that means we may see more consumer spending, too.''
 Obama administration officials say they see other signs that output growth will eventually transform into job growth.
 ''Employers are seeing demand go up,'' said Christina Romer, the chairwoman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers. ''They're starting to hire temporary workers. We're trying to get them to take the plunge and hire permanent workers. And do the hiring sooner rather than later.''
 Total government spending fell slightly, by an annualized rate of 0.1 percent, from the third quarter to the fourth quarter, largely because of declines in military spending and state and local government spending. 
 Federal nonmilitary spending rose at an annual rate of 8.1 percent last quarter, after rising 7 percent the previous quarter.
 International trade increased last quarter, and exports grew nearly twice as fast as imports, aided by a relatively weak dollar.
 The latest measure of the nation's output is a backward-looking figure, providing only clues of where the country may be headed. The number can be subject to major revisions, especially when the economy is at a turning point. The annual growth rate initially reported by the government for the third quarter of 2009 was 3.5 percent, but was later revised to 2.2 percent. The government's final tally of last quarter's output will be released in March.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Lowe's store in North Little Rock, Ark. Businesses are letting their stockpiles shrink at a slower rate than they had been. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHART: REAL ECONOMIC GROWTH (Source: Commerce Dept.) (A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STATISTICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); TAX LAW (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



889 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Government Plans To Reduce Its Energy Use

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The federal government will take steps to cut its energy use and reduce its heat-trapping emissions by 28 percent by 2020, compared with 2008 levels, the White House announced on Friday. 
 The government is the largest user of electricity and fuel in the country, accounting for roughly 1.5 percent of the nation's annual energy consumption and emissions of the gases that contribute to global warming. The White House said the emissions reduction goal, if met, would save $8 billion to $11 billion in energy costs over the next decade.
 The actions would provide only a fraction of the emissions reductions that President Obama has pledged the United States will achieve across all sectors of the economy by 2020: 17 percent below 2005 levels. But he said the federal government must lead by example.
 ''As the largest energy consumer in the United States, we have a responsibility to American citizens to reduce our energy use and become more efficient,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement. ''Our goal is to lower costs, reduce pollution and shift federal energy expenses away from oil and towards local, clean energy.''
 The White House said the cumulative reduction in energy use over the next 10 years was equivalent to 205 million barrels of oil, or taking 17 million cars off the road for a year.
 Federal agencies are already pursuing measures to reduce energy consumption by making buildings and vehicles more fuel efficient or switching to renewable sources of energy.
 The Central Intelligence Agency, for example, opened two new high-efficiency buildings in Virginia that will consume 20 percent less energy than existing structures. The Army is installing a 500-megawatt solar plant in the Mojave Desert at its Fort Irwin training grounds. The Veterans Affairs Department has contracted for a wind turbine generation system to provide 15 percent of the electricity for its hospital in St. Cloud, Minn.
 The Department of Defense, by far the federal government's largest consumer of energy, set its emissions reduction goal at 34 percent by 2020, although that figure excludes energy consumed by combat forces.
 The Institute for Energy Research, a conservative nonprofit group partly financed by the industry, criticized the program, saying the White House had not properly calculated the costs of reducing energy use or converting to renewable sources.
 Nancy Sutley, chairwoman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said many of the near-term costs of the program would be covered by the federal stimulus package. An added benefit will be the creation of thousands of new jobs, Ms. Sutley said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); EMISSIONS (92%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ARMIES (72%); WIND POWER PLANTS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); JOB CREATION (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (67%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



890 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Adding Casinos, State Faces Law of Diminishing Returns

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson announced Friday that he had selected a casino operator for the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens. It would be the ninth racetrack casino to open in the state since 2001.
 The Shinnecock tribe on Long Island, meanwhile, expects to get federal recognition later this year, and it wants to promptly build a casino, possibly at the Belmont Park racetrack just a few miles from Aqueduct.
 And there is yet another push by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Governor Paterson and elected officials in the Catskills to allow Indian tribes to build two Las Vegas-style casinos in Monticello, 90 miles northwest of Manhattan.
 But for all those wishing to further exploit gambling revenues -- from the state's chief executive to casino operators themselves -- there are sobering realities: falling revenues at any number of the New York area's gambling sites, the effects of a deep recession and the threat of what amounts to market saturation. 
 At the Monticello racetrack casino in the Catskills, for instance, gambling revenues (after prizes) fell by more than 9 percent in the first three quarters of the current fiscal year. And gambling revenues at the Seneca tribe's three full-scale casinos in the Buffalo-Niagara Falls area dropped 7.2 percent last year, prompting the tribe to shut down the expansion projects at its once booming resorts.
 In Connecticut, where two massive Indian casinos have long attracted New Yorkers, as well as in Las Vegas and Atlantic City, there have also been substantial declines in profits and revenues.
 ''It's probably wise to err on the conservative side when projecting revenues from gambling,'' said Robert B. Ward, deputy director of the Rockefeller Institute and co-author of a national study on the drop in gambling revenues.
 New York's embrace of gambling, to be sure, has had its upsides in recent years, and the combined revenue from the state's eight racetrack casinos is still on the rise. But the outfits that run those casinos won the right to take a larger percentage of total revenues and have been sending less money to the state's dedicated education fund -- down by nearly 10 percent in 2009.
 Morgan Hook, a spokesman for Mr. Paterson, said, ''Moving forward with a gaming facility at the Aqueduct racetrack will not only bring real jobs to the metropolitan New York City region, but will spark economic development in surrounding neighborhoods, send sorely needed dollars to public schools and stimulate the important agriculture and racing industries upstate.''
 A new casino at Aqueduct, with 4,500 electronic slot machines but no table games, would sit in a densely populated part of Queens, something the developers competing to operate it find attractive. 
 Analysts say that Aqueduct could generate more than $1 million a day in revenues for the state.
 On Friday, Governor Paterson said he had selected the Aqueduct Entertainment Group from five bidders to run the casino. The move played well with State Senate leaders and with Queens leaders, including the Rev. Floyd Flake, who is a member of the A.E.G. consortium. 
 But the long awaited decision could still run into trouble from rival bidders, including Penn National, which said it was ''shocked and dismayed'' by the governor's decision because it had submitted the highest offer for an upfront payment, $300 million.
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said he had agreed to the governor's choice providing that A.E.G. met a series of conditions, which includes raising its upfront bid to $300 million.
 Jeffrey E. Levine, a Queens developer who is part of the A.E.G. consortium, said the group had agreed to all the conditions. State officials said they expected to complete an agreement in 30 days with A.E.G., which plans to open the casino within six months.
 ''I'm thrilled to bring these jobs and this financial windfall to our borough, our city and our state in these desperate times,'' Mr. Levine said. 
 ''We are ready to hit the ground running.''
 But some analysts say an Aqueduct casino may wind up stealing customers from the Empire City Casino at Yonkers Raceway, the state's best performing slots hall. 
 The Aqueduct casino, in turn, would come under siege if the Shinnecock tribe builds a casino at nearby Belmont, or on its reservation in Southampton.
 And Las Vegas-style casinos in Monticello ''would take business from Yonkers, Tioga and Aqueduct,'' conceded Jeffrey Gural, who owns the racetrack casinos at Tioga and Vernon Downs.
 Monticello is currently struggling to compete with Yonkers to the east and the Mount Airy casino to the south, in Pennsylvania.
 Paul A. Young, executive director of Connecticut's Division of Special Revenue, which has taken in $5 billion from the state's two casinos since they opened in 1993, agreed, said, ''I think the entire U.S. has become saturated'' with gambling operations. ''It's no longer a sure-fired bet.''
 Casino-related revenue flowing to government in Connecticut has fallen in each of the last two years.
 Industry executives and elected officials in New York and Pennsylvania, where newly opened casinos are generating $3.2 million a day in tax revenues, take a more optimistic view.
 ''New York is certainly on the verge of getting a lot more gaming,'' said Michael J. Pollock, managing director of Spectrum Gaming Group, a consulting firm. ''It's partly a function of the fiscal times we live in and partly a function of the gaming industry looking at New York as one of the largest untapped markets in the country.''
 Mr. Schumer and the governor are hopeful that they can persuade the federal Interior Department to permit off-reservation Indian casinos in the Catskills as a way of reviving the former resort area. 
 ''Everybody is trying to take market share from everyone else,'' said Gordon Medenica, director of the New York State Lottery, in an interview before the governor's announcement. ''With New York sitting between Atlantic City and Connecticut, it's very much our game plan to take market share from those destinations. But it is a competitive environment.''
 Although Mr. Medenica disagrees generally with those who contend that the New York market is already saturated with gambling operations, he said, ''Upstate, I don't think there's capacity for more casinos.'' 
 In order to make the existing racetrack casinos more competitive, he said he is pushing to introduce electronic versions of roulette, blackjack and other table games.
 A step ahead of New York, Pennsylvania plans to install traditional table games at its racetrack casinos this summer.
 As for Aqueduct, Mr. Medenica said, it will be part of the latest trend in ''neighborhood gambling destinations,'' with millions of people only a subway stop or two away.
 ''If and when it happens,'' he said of Aqueduct, ''it will do extremely well against Connecticut and New Jersey.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Empire City Casino at Yonkers Raceway. Combined revenues from New York State's eight racetrack casinos are still on the rise (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) MAP: Some officials say the New York market is saturated with gambling operations
 some gambling industry leaders disagree. (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (96%); GAMING (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%); RICK PERRY (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



891 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Off Script, Obama and the G.O.P. Vent Politely

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and CARL HULSE; Brian Stelter contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
President Obama denied he was a Bolshevik, the Republicans denied they were obstructionists and both sides denied they were to blame for the toxic atmosphere clouding the nation's political leadership.
 At a moment when the country is as polarized as ever, Mr. Obama traveled to a House Republican retreat on Friday to try to break through the partisan logjam that has helped stall his legislative agenda. What ensued was a lively, robust debate between a president and the opposition party that rarely happens in the scripted world of American politics.
 For an hour and 22 minutes, with the cameras rolling, they thrust and parried, confronting each other's policies and politics while challenging each other to meet in the middle. Intense and vigorous, sometimes even pointed, the discussion nonetheless proved remarkably civil and substantive for a relentlessly bitter era, an airing of issues that both sides often say they need more of.
 But if it was at times a wonky clash of ideas, it also seemed to be a virtual marriage-therapy session -- with the most pointed exchanges shown again on the evening news -- as each side vented grievances pent up after a year of partisan gridlock. 
 Mr. Obama complained that the Republicans were painting him as a radical, making it harder to compromise. His health care plan, he said, was not ''a Bolshevik plot.'' The Republicans, for their part, complained that he did not listen to them and instead sat back while the Democratic ''attack machine,'' as one called it, demonized them.
 ''I am not an ideologue,'' Mr. Obama said at one point, drawing skeptical murmurs from the crowd that seemed to surprise him. ''I'm not,'' he insisted.
 But if he rejected the Republican labels for him, the Republicans rejected his for them.
 ''I can look you in the eye and tell you we have not been obstructionists,'' Representative Jason Chaffetz, a freshman from Utah, told him.
 The encounter at a Baltimore hotel was unlike any of Mr. Obama's presidency, or very many other presidencies, for that matter. Such a sustained and public dialogue with a hostile audience is rare for a president. Instead, Friday's back and forth resembled the British tradition where the prime minister submits to questions on the floor of the House of Commons -- something Senator John McCain had promised to do if elected president.
 For Mr. Obama, the lion's-den strategy of addressing a Republican audience reinforced his effort in the State of the Union address this week to reclaim a more bipartisan image and reach out to disaffected independents. Although he and other presidents have addressed opposition caucuses before, they usually close the doors for questions, but this time the White House insisted on letting the news media record the give and take.
 That worked to his benefit as he took advantage of the staging that comes with being president. He commanded the lectern with the presidential seal and the camera was trained mainly on him, while his interlocutors were forced to look up to him from the audience. Moreover, Mr. Obama gave long, confident and informed answers and felt free to interrupt questioners, while it is typically harder for others to interrupt a president.
 But Republicans said they believed they had achieved a victory as well, demonstrating that while Democrats might not like some of their policy ideas, they had advanced some proposals as evidenced by the president's acknowledgment that he had read them and even incorporated some of them into his initiatives.
 ''For him to say, 'I have read your proposals and they are substantive proposals,' that is a huge thing for Republicans,'' Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said afterward.
 Just to make the point that they have been more than the party of no, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, as he introduced the president handed him a booklet called ''Better Solutions'' compiling a variety of Republican ideas that they said the president had ignored or resisted over the last year.
 ''We don't expect you to agree with us on every one of our solutions,'' Mr. Boehner said, ''but we do hope that you and your administration will consider them.''
 The meeting came just 10 days after a special election in Massachusetts cost Democrats their 60-vote supermajority in the Senate, but on a day of rare good news for Mr. Obama as the government reported that the economy grew by 5.7 percent in the final quarter of last year, the strongest rate of growth in six years. 
 Mr. Obama opened with a speech saying voters wanted bipartisan cooperation. ''They didn't send us to Washington to fight each other in some sort of political steel-cage match to see who comes out alive,'' he said. But he was tough and even defensive at times, giving no ground on policy and five times using the phrase ''not true'' to describe Republican statements. 
 He argued that his health care plan was ''pretty centrist'' actually. ''But if the way these issues are being presented by the Republicans is that this is some wild-eyed plot to impose huge government in every aspect of our lives, what happens is you guys then don't have a lot of room to negotiate with me,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Mr. Chaffetz challenged the president on what he characterized as a series of broken promises to change the system, including the fact that health care talks were not broadcast on C-Span.
 Mr. Obama conceded failing to televise the closed talks. ''It's a legitimate criticism,'' he said. ''So on that one, I take responsibility.'' 
 (Even before the questions-and-answers concluded, reporters and commentators were hoping that the sessions -- catnip for TV producers everywhere -- would become a regular feature. C-span made plans to replay the event in prime time, and at times on Friday afternoon the level of interest in watching video of the event strained its Web servers.)
 He was pressed on other issues. ''Will you consider supporting across-the-board tax relief, as President Kennedy did?'' Representative Mike Pence of Indiana asked. 
 ''I'm going to look at what you guys are proposing,'' Mr. Obama answered.
 ''Would you support a line-item veto?'' Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin asked.
 ''This is an area where we can have a serious conversation,'' Mr. Obama said.
 The president grew more exasperated when Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas challenged him on the spending plan he will unveil next week. ''Will that new budget, like your old budget, triple the national debt and continue to take us down the path of increasing the cost of government to almost 25 percent of our economy?'' he asked.
 Mr. Obama called the question ''an example of how it's very hard to have the kind of bipartisan work that we're going to do because the whole question was structured as a talking point for running a campaign.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama addressed the G.O.P. House Issues Conference in Baltimore on Friday, sharing a dais with, from left, Representatives John A. Boehner, Eric Cantor and Mike Pence. (A1)
 President Obama fielded questions from House Republicans on Friday at a Baltimore hotel in an unusual dialogue on the issues in a robust, but mostly civil debate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (76%); CAUCUSES (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MIKE PENCE (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JASON CHAFFETZ (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



892 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1275 words

PERSON: YASUHIRO NAKASONE 

HEADLINE: Japan's Elder Statesman Is Silent No Longer

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
 ANY mere mortal might have reacted with dismay, even anger, if a group of brash newcomers threatened to undo the accomplishments of a lifetime. But from his Olympian heights as Japan's most revered elder statesman, Yasuhiro Nakasone, the former prime minister, at first watched with sphinx-like calm as an inexperienced, left-leaning government swept to power, challenging Japan's postwar political order and its close relationship with the United States.
 Now, with his former party, the conservative Liberal Democrats, crumbling into disarray since last summer's historic election, and his nation's ties with Washington falling to their lowest point in years in a dispute over a base on Okinawa, he is finally speaking out. Mr. Nakasone, 91, a confidant of President Ronald Reagan whose six-decade political career stretched back to the American-led postwar occupation of Japan, has begun a busy schedule of interviews and speeches that would tire a man half his age. 
 Aware of his status as one of the few leaders revered across Japan's suddenly fractured political landscape, Mr. Nakasone (na-ka-SOW-nay) is careful in choosing his words. But his message is nevertheless clear. He wants to tell his nation's conservatives to pick up the pieces from their defeat, and he wants to tell his countrymen to keep a careful eye on a rising China.
 But his most important message is for the new prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama, who came to power with promises to create a more equal relationship with the United States. It is possible, he says, for Japan to act more independently without alienating Washington, its protector and proven friend.
 Mr. Nakasone also cautions against blowing the current disagreements with Washington out of proportion. When he was prime minister, in the mid-1980s, the strains on the relationship -- from an undervalued yen and a string of trade disputes, to fears that Japan would buy up the American economy, to criticism of Tokyo's anemic defense spending -- were actually much more threatening than those of today, he said. 
 ''IN my days, we had trade imbalances, and criticism of Japan taking a 'free ride' in national security,'' said Mr. Nakasone, who retired from politics in 2003. ''We don't have those problems now. The relationship is much more normal. It is on a firmer footing.''
 During an hourlong interview in his office in central Tokyo, Mr. Nakasone sat surrounded by the memorabilia of a political career in which he rubbed shoulders with the likes of Margaret Thatcher and Mikhail Gorbachev, and as a young lawmaker clashed with Gen. Douglas MacArthur, the head of the Allied occupation forces after World War II. He spoke in slowly crafted sentences, punctuated by frequent pauses, as if less sure of aging mental legs in tricky intellectual terrain that he had once traversed with ease. 
 Still, he remained very lucid on the solution to the current problems dividing Tokyo and Washington, including the simmering dispute over relocating a United States Marine base on Okinawa: Mr. Hatoyama should do as he himself had done, and work at building personal trust with his American counterpart.
 As he spoke, Mr. Nakasone repeatedly pointed at a poster-size photograph of him and Mr. Reagan walking together through the woods of Camp David, smiling in identical windbreakers.
 ''That photograph there, I look at it every day,'' he said. ''The trust I shared with him supported our nations, Japan and the United States. And it became a source of strength to support the world'' during the cold war. 
 ''Have that sort of style,'' he added, as if addressing Mr. Hatoyama. ''Increase contact with President Obama. Spend as much time as possible together. I'm not talking about one or two hours. For example, have a meal together. After that, have a long after-meal conversation.'' 
 DURING the interview, Mr. Nakasone showed flashes of the fiery nationalist who as prime minister proclaimed Japan an ''unsinkable aircraft carrier'' against the Soviet Union. He also displayed hints of the celebrated oratorical skills that once set him apart in a nation of colorless political leaders.
 Mr. Nakasone was a rarity in the nepotistic, insider-driven world of Japanese politics, a self-made man whose father was a lumber dealer in the poor mountainous prefecture of Gunma, north of Tokyo. As a paymaster in Japan's Imperial Navy during World War II, Mr. Nakasone said, he developed an enormous pride in his country and an admiration for the strength and ideals of its former foe, the United States. 
 Two years after the war's end, he gave up a promising career in an elite government ministry to run for Parliament with the belief that in its postwar remorse, Japan was in danger of discarding its traditional values. As a freshman lawmaker in 1951, he delivered a 28-page letter to General MacArthur criticizing the occupation, a brazen move. The general angrily threw the letter in the wastebasket, Mr. Nakasone was later told.
 This established his credentials as a right-wing politician, and one of the rare Liberal Democratic leaders who escaped the taint of the party's money-driven machine politics. Indeed, when asked about his career-long affiliation with the Liberal Democrats, he was quick to distance himself by proclaiming himself a lifelong member of what he once called Japan's ''conservative mainstream.'' 
 He described the end of the Liberal Democrats' half-century of governing as a national opening on par with the wrenching social and political changes that followed defeat in the war. He praised the appearance of a strong second political party as a step toward true democracy. 
 ''FOR the development of Japan's democracy, I did not think it was good for the Liberal Democratic Party to last forever, or for it to be a permanent ruling party. Being knocked out of power is a good chance to study in the cram school of public opinion.''
 Yet, Mr. Nakasone said the victors, particularly Mr. Hatoyama, had a lot to learn, especially about leadership.
 As an example, he pointed to his own diplomatic achievements as prime minister. He said he cast aside the deferential pose of his predecessors and seized a high profile at multilateral summit meetings, speaking out in support of the Reagan administration's hard line against the Soviet Union. This won him a personal friendship with Mr. Reagan, which put the two men on a first-name basis and won Japan more respect globally.
 The path to a more equal Japan lies with the United States, not apart from it, he said. He also faulted Mr. Hatoyama for giving Washington the impression that he valued ties with China more than he did those with the United States.
 ''Because of the prime minister's imprudent remarks, the current situation calls for Japan to make efforts to improve things,'' he said. 
 The relationship with the United States is different from that with China, he said, because ''it is built on a security alliance, and not just on the alliance, but on the shared values of liberal democracy, and on its shared ideals.''
 These shared values should be enough to bind the United States and Japan together even in tough times, Mr. Nakasone said. So should the personal bonds between their leaders, which can last a lifetime. Mr. Nakasone contributed a cherry tree to the Reagan Library in Simi Valley, Calif., and attended the funeral of his old friend almost six years ago. He said he still corresponded with the former first lady, Nancy Reagan.
 ''In the end, friendly relations between nations depend on the sense of trust between their leaders,'' he said. ''Problems like Okinawa can be solved by talking together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: YASUHIRO NAKASONE (PHOTOGRAPH BY TORIN BOYD/POLARIS, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (69%); WORLD WAR II (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); DEFENSE SPENDING (50%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); YUKIO HATOYAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



893 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths JOFFE, ROBERT D

 BODY:
JOFFE--Robert D. All the lawyers and staff of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP mourn the loss of their partner Bob Joffe, a friend and mentor who was a preeminent litigator and boardroom adviser. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife and family to whom he was so devoted. Mr. Joffe was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in August 2009 and died in New York, NY on January 28. He was 66 years old. 
Over the course of his extraordinary career, Mr. Joffe was well- known nationally and internationally, both for his tenacity in handling landmark litigation and for his ability to provide highly sensitive counsel in the boardrooms of corporate America. Since 1978, Mr. Joffe was the primary outside lawyer for Time Warner. One of the many significant matters he handled was the merger of Time Inc. and Warner Communications Inc. He was the principal litigator for Time Inc. in successfully rebutting Paramount's 1989 attempted takeover in a case considered to be a milestone in M&A litigation. Mr. Joffe represented the Boards of Directors of some of the world's most prominent companies in connection with their most pressing challenges, especially during the recent financial crisis. He was a longtime advisor to the non-management directors of Fannie Mae and was also counsel to the independent directors of Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, General Electric and General Motors, among many others. Mr. Joffe was passionate about human rights even as a student at Harvard Law School. From 1967 to 1969, after just a few months as a Cravath associate, Mr. Joffe left New York to serve in the Ministry of Justice of the Government of Malawi on an Africa Asia Public Service Fellowship funded by the Ford Foundation. It was in this position that he assisted the Commissioner for Law Revision in rewriting the country's laws and instituting a framework for supervision of the local courts for this African country. He continued his interest in civil rights and, in 1989, he argued Martin v. Wilks, a pro bono civil rights case in the United States Supreme Court in which he represented black and women municipal employees in Birmingham, Alabama, in an effort to secure equal opportunity in employment. In later years, as Cravath's Presiding Partner, Mr. Joffe was a strong promoter of the need for lawyers to treat pro bono clients with equal regard and concern as they would any paying client. Mr. Joffe became a partner at Cravath in 1975. He was elected Deputy Presiding Partner in 1997 and became Cravath's Presiding Partner in 1999. Mr. Joffe served as the Firm's leader until December 31, 2006. Mr. Joffe was a beloved and devoted husband, father and son. He is survived by his wife Virginia (Dinny), two children, Katherine Joffe (New York, NY) and David Joffe (New York, NY) and two stepchildren, Dr. Ryan DeHaas (Concord, NC) and Elizabeth DeHass (New York, NY). He is also survived by his mother, Bertha Joffe, and two brothers, Paul Joffe (Washington, DC) and Richard Joffe (New York, NY). A memorial service will be held to celebrate his life on Wednesday, February 10th at 11am at All Souls Church, 1157 Lexington Ave. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to Human Rights First, 333 Seventh Ave., 13th Floor, New York, NY 10001 or to The After-School Corporation, 1440 Broadway, 14th Floor, New York, NY 10018. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LITIGATION (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PRO BONO LAW (78%); TAKEOVERS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (71%); CANCER (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (96%); TIME INC (91%); WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC (69%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (96%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALAWI (79%); ASIA (78%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



894 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Suspends Haitian Airlift In Cost Dispute

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
The United States has suspended its medical evacuations of critically injured Haitian earthquake victims until a dispute over who will pay for their care is settled, military officials said Friday.
 The military flights, usually C-130s carrying Haitians with spinal cord injuries, burns and other serious wounds, ended on Wednesday after Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida formally asked the federal government to shoulder some of the cost of the care. 
 Hospitals in Florida have treated more than 500 earthquake victims so far, the military said, including an infant who was pulled out of the rubble with a fractured skull and ribs. Other states have taken patients, too, and those flights have been suspended as well, the officials said. 
 The suspension could be catastrophic for patients, said Dr. Barth A. Green, the co-founder of Project Medishare for Haiti, a nonprofit group affiliated with the University of Miami's Miller School of Medicine that had been evacuating about two dozen patients a day.
 ''People are dying in Haiti because they can't get out,'' Dr. Green said. 
 It was not clear on Friday who exactly was responsible for the interruption of flights, or the chain of events that led to the decision. Sterling Ivey, a spokesman for Mr. Crist, said the governor's request for federal help might have caused ''confusion.''
 ''Florida stands ready to assist our neighbors in Haiti, but we need a plan of action and reimbursement for the care we are providing,'' Mr. Ivey said.
 Mr. Crist's request did not indicate how much the medical care was costing the State of Florida, but the number and complexity of the cases could put the total in the millions of dollars. The expenditure comes at a time when the state is suffering economically and Mr. Crist, a Republican, is locked in a tough primary battle for the Senate seat that had been held by Mel Martinez. 
 ''Recently, we learned that plans were under way to move between 30 to 50 critically ill patients a day for an indefinite period of time,'' Mr. Crist wrote in a letter to Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services. ''Florida does not have the capacity to support such an operation.''
 A spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services said the decision to suspend the flights was made by the military, not the federal health department. A military spokesman said that the military had ended the flights because hospitals were becoming unwilling to take patients.
 ''The places they were being taken, without being specific, were not willing to continue to receive those patients without a different arrangement being worked out by the government to pay for the care,'' said Maj. James Lowe, the deputy chief of public affairs for the United States Transportation Command. 
 Florida officials, meanwhile, said the state's hospitals had not refused to take more patients. Jeanne Eckes-Roper, the health and medical chairwoman of the domestic security task force for the South Florida region -- where the Super Bowl will be played on Feb. 7 -- said she had requested only that new patients be taken to other areas of the state, like Tampa.
 The Health and Human Services spokeswoman, Gretchen Michael, who works for the assistant secretary for preparedness and response, said the agency was reviewing Mr. Crist's request for financial assistance. The request would involve activating the National Disaster Medical System, which is usually used in domestic disasters and which pays for victims' care. 
 Some of the patients being airlifted from Haiti are American citizens and some are insured or eligible for insurance. But Haitians who are not legal residents of the United States can qualify for Medicaid only if they are given so-called humanitarian parole -- in which someone is allowed into the United States temporarily because of an emergency -- by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
 Only 34 people have been given humanitarian parole for medical reasons, said Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security. The National Disaster Medical System, if activated, would cover the costs of caring for patients regardless of their legal status.
 Some hospitals have made their own arrangements to accommodate victims of the earthquake, which occurred on Jan. 12. Jackson Health System, the public hospital system in Miami, treated 117 patients, 6 of whom were still in critical condition, said Jennifer Piedra, a spokeswoman. The system has established the Haiti's Children Fund to cover the costs of treating pediatric earthquake victims. 
 In the aftermath of the earthquake, Haitian medical facilities were quickly overwhelmed. Since then, medical help has come in the form of mobile hospitals and other aid. Major Lowe said that as medical care had become available in Haiti, the need for the flights had declined significantly. But Dr. Green and nonprofit groups with a presence in Haiti said the need for evacuations remained dire. 
 ''Right now we have in the queue dozens of paraplegics, burn victims and other patients that need to be evacuated,'' Dr. Green said. ''And other facilities are asking us to coordinate the evacuation of their patients.''
 A spokeswoman for Partners in Health, a Boston charity with doctors and nurses in Haiti, said the group had a backlog of patients, many with head, spine or pelvic injuries, who needed surgery that could not be performed there.
 Major Lowe said patients could still be evacuated in private planes, but Dr. Green said medically equipped planes were very expensive and generally could carry only one or two patients.
 Federal officials could not provide the total number of earthquake patients airlifted to the United States, but Florida seemed to have received the bulk of them.
 In his letter, Mr. Crist outlined his state's efforts to support the rescue effort, helping both the healthy and the sick streaming into the state. ''Florida's health care system is quickly reaching saturation,'' he wrote.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 2010

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the United States' temporarily suspending the medical evacuation of critically injured Haitian earthquake victims misstated, in some editions, the circumstances of the political campaign currently being waged by Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida. Mr. Crist, a Republican, is running to replace United States Senator George LeMieux -- not Mel Martinez, who retired from the Senate last year. (Mr. LeMieux, who was appointed to the seat by Mr. Crist, is not seeking a full term.)
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the United States' temporarily suspending the medical evacuation of critically injured Haitian earthquake victims misstated, in some editions, the circumstances of the political campaign currently being waged by Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida. Mr. Crist, a Republican, is running to replace United States Senator George LeMieux -- not Mel Martinez, who retired from the Senate last year. (Mr. LeMieux, who was appointed to the seat by Mr. Crist, is not seeking a full term.)
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the United States' temporarily suspending the medical evacuation of critically injured Haitian earthquake victims misstated, in some editions, the circumstances of the political campaign currently being waged by Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida. Mr. Crist, a Republican, is running to replace United States Senator George LeMieux -- not Mel Martinez, who retired from the Senate last year. (Mr. LeMieux, who was appointed to the seat by Mr. Crist, is not seeking a full term.)
Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about the United States' temporarily suspending the medical evacuation of critically injured Haitian earthquake victims misstated, in some editions, the circumstances of the political campaign currently being waged by Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida. Mr. Crist, a Republican, is running to replace United States Senator George LeMieux -- not Mel Martinez, who retired from the Senate last year. (Mr. LeMieux, who was appointed to the seat by Mr. Crist, is not seeking a full term.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida wants Washington to help. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE CANNON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONE FRACTURES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); BURN INJURIES (73%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (73%); HEAD INJURIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (89%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (56%); MEL MARTINEZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010



895 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: A Prewar Home, To Say the Least

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
WITH a spinning wheel in the attic, flintlock rifles on the walls, foot warmers at the hearth and a horse-drawn sleigh in the barn, Annette and Stuart Mont are well-equipped for 18th-century colonial farm life. 
 Except they are living in Brooklyn in 2010.
 Home is an antiques-crammed pre-Revolutionary white Dutch farmhouse and barn that rise like ghostly apparitions amid apartment clusters and buzzing traffic on East 22nd Street and Avenue P in the Madison section. The Monts, who bought the place fully equipped for $160,000 in 1983, are only the third family to occupy what is known as the Wyckoff-Bennett Homestead since it was built around 1766.
 ''It's a living museum,'' said Mrs. Mont, 69, a retired psychotherapist and teacher. 
 But a plan for the city to acquire the 4,000-square-foot home, which was designated as a landmark by the city in 1968 and put on the National Register of Historic Places in 1976, has broken down in acrimony. 
 The Monts say that starting a decade ago, city officials offered to buy the house and its contents for $2 million while letting them stay on rent-free as caretakers, but that the officials reneged on the deal last year. Franklin Vagnone, executive director of the Historic House Trust, which helps the parks department preserve historic houses located in city parks, called the place ''a wonderful artifact'' but said the city ''was unfortunately not able to negotiate terms with the current owners.'' 
 The Wyckoff-Bennett Homestead is one of at least a dozen old Dutch houses, wraiths from a long-bygone age in various states of repair and bastardization, that still grace the Borough of Kings. There are some others scattered throughout the city, down from more than 70 that were intact as recently as the 1950s.
 A handful are privately owned, like an even older house in the Flatlands section of Brooklyn that the Monts rented before buying theirs. Others are maintained as museums, including the oldest dwelling in the city and its first designated landmark, the Pieter Claesen Wyckoff House on Clarendon Road in East Flatbush, dating from 1652. On Thursday, city officials opened bids for relocating an old Wyckoff barn from New Jersey onto the Clarendon Road farmhouse property, for the first barn-raising in Brooklyn in 150 years. 
 The Monts's home, near Kings Highway, is a curved-roofed paragon of Dutch-colonial architecture, and remains filled with original furnishings -- dishes, silverware, quilts, toys, clothes, Bibles, daguerreotypes, even an edict of April 3, 1776, ordering householders ''to preserve for the KING's Use'' bushels of rye, wheat and barley to provision the redcoat army. 
 A sword on the wall is etched with the royal crown and initials for George Rex III. And two Hessian mercenaries quartered there during the Revolution, Captain Toepfer of the Ditfourth regiment and Lieut. M. Bach of the Hessen-Hanau Artillerie, scratched their names and units into windowpanes, the graffiti sections now displayed proudly in two small picture frames.
 (And of course the Monts say there is a ghost, the supposed one-legged owner of a single old boot found in the attic, who clomps around opening and closing doors.) 
 ''This is not stuff we acquired,'' said Mr. Mont, also 69, chief financial officer of a beauty-products company in Carteret, N.J. ''This was left by two families over 250 years.''
 The house is not officially open to the public, but the Monts, lovers of history and architecture, who sit on the boards of similar properties in Brooklyn, often play host to school groups and other interested visitors.
 ''Oh my God, this place is a gem,'' Ron Schweiger, the Brooklyn borough historian, said after a recent tour. It was built in what was then Gravesend by Hendrick H. Wyckoff, whose forbear landed in New Amsterdam in 1637. (The family name had been Claesen, but the British, who took the colony from the Dutch in 1664, pressured settlers to adopt English names.) In 1835, the house and 100-acre farm were sold to Cornelius W. Bennett, whose ancestor was perhaps the first settler in what became Brooklyn, in 1636. 
 It remained in the Bennett family until Cornelius's great-great-granddaughter, Gertrude Ryder Bennett, a poet and the author of two books on the house -- ''Living in a Landmark'' (1980) and ''Turning Back the Clock'' (1982) -- died childless in 1982, leaving behind handwritten notes on the provenance of many objects in the house. 
 She was born in 1900, around the time the city put in the street grid requiring the south-facing house to be jacked up and turned to the west, wiping out the original barns and slave quarters. A new barn, still standing, was built in 1899, the date scratched into a beam. Some century-old straw remains.
 In the books, Ms. Ryder Bennett recalled watching horse races on Ocean Parkway, visiting the Canarsie Indians, and growing up by kerosene light -- her grandmother feared both newfangled gas and electricity.
 The federal government also had a chance to acquire the property, the Monts said, when the Bennetts took steps in 1975 to deed it to the National Trust for Historic Preservation. But the government failed to complete the acquisition, according to the Monts. Jenni Brewer, a spokeswoman for the trust in Washington, said no one there remembered the matter and no records could be located. 
 Ms. Ryder Bennett's widower sold the house to the Monts, who claim no colonial pedigree. ''We go back to Europe,'' Mrs. Mont said, ''but most of my family was wiped out in the Holocaust.''
 She grew up in Sheepshead Bay, he in Bensonhurst; they met at Brooklyn College and married in 1961. From 1975 to 1982, when their son and daughter were young, the Monts rented part of the Stoothoff-Baxter House, less than two miles away, at 1640 East 48th Street. That house goes back to 1747, with an addition built in 1811 by John Baxter, who moved the house several blocks from its original site. 
 The house's owner, Ken Friedlander, 58, a teacher, bought it in 1994 for $280,000, along with a trove of old papers, including a receipt for a slave whom Baxter bought for $325 in 1810.
 The Monts said the city first approached them in 1999 with what became an offer of $2 million for their four lots, house and barn, plus the right to match any bid for the contents. And, they said, they were to be allowed to live out the rest of their days in the house rent-free.
 As a first step, which was urged by the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, the City Planning Commission on Dec. 5, 2007, approved the remapping of the property as a public park. 
 But the Department of Citywide Administrative Services wrote the Monts last Feb. 26, offering $1,387,000, including the contents, which it said had been appraised at $92,035. The offer, the agency said, had been discounted to offset theoretical rent -- about $40,000 a year for the Monts' expected life spans of 15 more years. 
 The Monts said they were insulted, and talks with the city collapsed. ''Let my kids worry about it,'' Mr. Mont said. ''I'll die some day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HISTORY LESSON: The Wyckoff-Bennett Homestead, where Annette and Stuart Mont live, is crammed with antiques. A windowpane bears the names of Revolutionary War soldiers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



896 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Shifting Gears

BYLINE: By FELIX SALMON. 
Felix Salmon is the finance blogger for Reuters (reuters.com/felix).

 BODY:
THE SELLING OF THE AMERICAN ECONOMY
 How Foreign Companies Are Remaking the American Dream
 By Micheline Maynard
 261 pp. Broadway Books. $26
 CRASH COURSE
 The American Automobile Industry's Road From Glory to Disaster
 By Paul Ingrassia
 Illustrated. 306 pp. Random House. $26
 Are you the kind of person who instinctively hates the fact that foreign companies are investing billions of dollars in some of America's most depressed regions, creating millions of well-paying jobs and acting as an engine of growth and prosperity? Me neither. 
 In fact, the idea that the world is divided into ''domestic'' and ''foreign'' companies, and that the foreign ones can find it very difficult to come to the United States and compete with the domestic ones, seems a bit anachronistic in a world where manufactured goods can be made in dozens of countries and global capital knows no borders. What ''nationality'' is the steel maker ArcelorMittal, or the brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev, or even Halliburton, which moved its headquarters to Dubai in 2007? In what sense is a Toyota Camry made in Kentucky less American than an Apple Macintosh computer made in China? 
 Micheline Maynard, a business correspondent at The New York Times, largely ducks these questions in ''The Selling of the American Economy,'' a book-length paean to the wonders of foreign investment that tends to assume, rather than question, the distinction between domestic and foreign companies. Maynard's book is not a debate: she talks vaguely about ''detractors'' and says that ''we'' Americans ''think we can spread our influence throughout the world while simultaneously closing our doors to others.'' But virtually all the Americans she talks to, from line workers and middle managers to executives and state governors, welcome foreign companies with open arms. 
 Maynard is on the side of the angels, of course. The kind of investment she's talking about, in which companies build large factories that employ thousands of people directly and many more indirectly, is a good thing for any economy. But it's never entirely obvious what exactly she's arguing against. She seems to attribute any obstacle faced by a foreign company to the basest of motives, usually some kind of xenophobia. She tries to spin the Chinese company Haier's bid for Maytag, for instance, as a story of ''just how quickly protectionist sentiment can derail a foreign company's plan for growth,'' before eventually explaining that Maytag was ultimately sold to Whirlpool for far more money than Haier was willing to pay.
 But Maynard has something of a blind spot when it comes to foreign companies. They don't make mistakes; they just miscalculate the depth of protectionist sentiment ranged against them. Toyota can do so little wrong in Maynard's eyes that she goes so far as to say that its chief executive, Akio Toyoda, the grandson of the company's founder, got the job ''through a combination of hard work, dedication and business acumen -- rather than special treatment or guidance from his family.'' 
 Maynard gives short shrift to the opponents of foreign investment, reducing their arguments to caricature. That's all the weirder because sometimes she seems quite well disposed toward protectionist acts and the us-versus-them mind-set that drives them. She says, for example, that Americans would rightly have feared ''for our safety'' had the China National Offshore Oil Corporation successfully bought the American oil company Unocal, but doesn't note that Unocal's assets were mostly foreign to begin with.
 Maynard also talks in odd terms about Gov. Jennifer Granholm of Michigan and her vocal support of General Motors: she says Granholm ''was forced to choose sides'' and adds witheringly that ''for anyone who knew about Granholm's efforts to court foreign businesses, the scene would seem to indicate that she was trying to have it all.'' Why would there be any conflict when a governor stands up for one of her state's largest employers while at the same time trying to attract new ones? The answer lies in the peculiarly dysfunctional dynamics of Detroit, where Maynard once served as bureau chief for The Times. 
 Reading the latest book from another onetime Detroit bureau chief -- Paul Ingrassia, formerly of The Wall Street Journal -- I think it's clear the Japanese are still very much considered the enemy. His similes are telling: ''In 1993 the combined United States market share of Japanese automakers dropped to 23 percent, down from nearly 26 percent in 1991. It seemed sort of like the Battle of Midway. . . . After sustaining humiliating defeats, the Americans had stemmed the Japanese advance.'' 
 Neither author blames the Japanese for the failure of the American auto industry. But Toyota -- along with Honda and Nissan -- is very much the anti-Detroit: Southern, not Northern; successful imports as opposed to failing natives; and, above all, nonunion. It's easy, from a Detroit perspective, to lump those attributes into a single bucket labeled ''foreign.'' 
 Ingrassia skillfully details the many enormous management failures of the Big Three. But there's a lot of blame to go around: the single biggest villain in ''Crash Course'' is probably Stephen Yokich, the president of the United Auto Workers from 1995 to 2002. Ingrassia blames Yokich for the failure of G.M.'s Saturn project, in which Detroit tried to build a new labor model characterized by cooperation rather than antagonism. And he blames Yokich more generally for systematically and disastrously vetoing any kind of innovation in Detroit's labor relations. 
 It's improbable that a Japanese company would have fared any better against Yokich. The first Japanese automaker in the United States was not Toyota but Honda, and Ingrassia explains that ''from the beginning, the Honda headquarters brass figured that recognizing the U.A.W. would be inevitable and was just part of being a 'good corporate citizen' in America.'' Yet Honda never unionized, partly because one of its executives inadvertently went against his boss's wishes in a meeting with the company president. Once the key Honda precedent was set, the U.A.W. was never able to gain much traction with Japanese automakers. The success of those automakers, then, can be attributed as much to sheer luck, and to the anti-import rules that forced them to build factories here, as it can to being foreign. 
 And if Maynard is too gushing about Toyota, Ingrassia is too harsh on G.M. and Chrysler, especially when he extends the metaphor of them ''careening down the Niagara River, heading toward the falls and the terrifying plunge toward bankruptcy,'' across an entire chapter. (Yes, it's Chapter 11.) 
 The fact is that the quick and elegant dip in and out of bankruptcy court was the best thing that had happened to either company in decades, and is being looked at with great jealousy by many auto industry officials in Europe, where governments extend emergency loans to carmakers not on the condition that they make tough decisions to close loss-making plants, but rather on the condition that they don't. Not a single European auto plant has been permanently shut since the onset of the financial crisis in 2008, and the new, slim-look Detroit appears a great deal healthier than, say, its French counterparts.
 Bankruptcy, when it's done well, is just another way of changing ownership. And in the case of G.M., which in late 2008 had total stockholder equity of negative $57 billion, new ownership was long overdue. The company might now be a ward of the state, but it has an aggressive board and a war chest of more than $40 billion in cash. True, it has suffered some nasty dings. But it's certainly not a write-off.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The former Packard plant on Detroit's east side, 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (53%)

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (69%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (69%)

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (69%); ABI (BRU) (69%); MTS (MCE) (69%); MT (PAR) (69%); MT (NYSE) (69%); MT (AMS) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (69%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (69%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

TITLE: Crash Course: The American Automobile Industry's Road From Glory to Disaster (Book); Selling of the American Economy: How Foreign Companies Are Remaking the American Dream, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



897 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Envisions Northeast Comeback

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Northeastern Republican was nearly driven to extinction by political climate change, but the species appears poised to make a comeback.
 The successful run of Scott Brown in the Senate race in Massachusetts, coupled with the front-runner status of Representative Michael N. Castle in Delaware in his bid for the Senate and other strong candidacies, could bode well for Republicans in a region that has been shedding them because of a sense that the party had grown too conservative and focused on the South. 
 In the House, no New England state is represented by a Republican, and neighboring New York is down to two. The Senate's two moderate Republicans, Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, say they would certainly welcome the company. 
 ''I love the irony that it is Massachusetts that has come to the rescue of the Republican Party,'' said Ms. Collins, referring to how the election of Mr. Brown from the deep-blue Bay State is energizing her party and raising the spirits of candidates who now know it is possible for Republicans to win even in Democratic strongholds.
 It certainly has not been that way of late. Though Ms. Collins ran a strong and successful re-election effort in 2008, the Democratic tide washed away the last House Republican from New England after major losses in 2006. 
 The independents who swing New England elections abandoned the party as the Bush era drew to a close. They were in revolt over the war in Iraq, the struggling economy and the strong strain of Southern social conservatism that was dominating national Republican politics. It was crushing for the remaining Republicans in a section of the country that once saw itself as the foundation of the party.
 But Republicans see Mr. Brown's win -- and an earlier victory in the New Jersey governor's race -- as evidence that independents are moving back their way, a possible harbinger of good things to come. They point to Delaware, where Mr. Castle, a longtime leader among moderate Republicans, is now the favorite to win that race in November since Joseph R. Biden III, the state attorney general and son of the vice president, decided to forgo a challenge. 
 ''I think there is a chance of resurgence in the Northeast and Middle Atlantic States,'' Mr. Castle said, assessing the Massachusetts outcome. ''It certainly opens up that possibility. The benefit of it is that people feel there is hope and opportunity. It has been very hard to attract candidates in those places.''
 Mr. Brown's victory has already produced some new Republican contenders, raising party hopes of reclaiming lost House and Senate territory. Republicans are mounting a strong effort to grab an open Senate seat in Connecticut, as well as two formerly Republican House seats in New Hampshire. 
 But they should not get too far ahead of themselves. They still face difficult challenges in most of those states, given Democratic demographic advantages. And off-year and special election Republican victories in Democratic territory offer no certainty of winning in the more heavily contested midterm elections, with their accompanying greater turnout. Also, ideological divisions being exhibited in primaries in Connecticut and New Hampshire in particular could ultimately cost Republicans.
 Still, they have reason to be optimistic after being nearly wiped off New England's political map. One reason is that the current national political fight is centering more on the economic issues that are part of the fabric of New England political ideology, rather than the divisive social issues that can drive less conservative Republicans away from the party. 
 ''What's fueling the resurgence of Northern Republicans is public anger over the economy and an impression among New England voters that 'big government' is back with a vengeance,'' said Bob Stevenson, a former senior Senate Republican aide who has long worked in New England politics. ''New Englanders tend to believe in fiscal restraint, self-rule and self-sufficiency.''
 The addition of even a few moderate Republicans to the Senate could change the dynamic in that institution. Conservatives are so dominant now that Ms. Collins and Ms. Snowe face intense pressure to vote with their party, particularly after they broke ranks to provide the crucial votes to pass the economic stimulus measure early in 2009. Mr. Castle, should he prevail, would add another strong and experienced moderate voice. 
 The philosophical direction Mr. Brown intends to take remains to be seen, but even his fellow Republicans said he could not compile a heavily conservative voting record and expect to be re-elected in Massachusetts in 2012 when his partial term ends.
 Ms. Snowe, typically a favorite target of Democrats as they try to build a 60-vote bloc to break filibusters, said that Republicans representing Democratic states -- or vice versa -- tend to push the debate toward the middle to appease their diverse political constituencies.
 ''Having those countervailing voices really creates the inclination and propensity for drafting centrist-based positions,'' Ms. Snowe said.
 Even talking about a comeback is enough to energize Northeastern Republicans, who hope they have survived the worst and can now rebuild.
 ''We take Robert Frost to heart,'' said Mr. Stevenson, quoting the New England poet. ''The best way out is always through.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Brown's victory is seen by some as evidence that independent voters are swinging to Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (72%); IRAQ WAR (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (90%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



898 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Lending Standards Tightened

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
SINCE lenders started tightening underwriting standards in 2008, many people have flocked to mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration, which serves borrowers who have poor credit and little money for down payments.
 Now, with F.H.A. mortgage defaults increasing, the government has tightened lending standards for those with the worst credit and increased fees across the board, while at the same time temporarily removing a hurdle that kept away buyers of foreclosed properties.
 Mortgage executives say the changes, announced this month, amount to good news for borrowers, because many in the industry expected even tighter restrictions. 
 ''Everyone thought the new guidelines would be a lot stricter, and include higher down payments for everyone,'' said Pattie Romanzi, the chief executive of the Par East Mortgage Company in East Hampton, N.Y. ''This isn't too bad.''
 The F.H.A. does not make loans; rather, it insures mortgages from lenders who would not otherwise offer loans to those who can make down payments of only 3.5 percent and who have credit scores of 620 or less.
 Borrowers pay an F.H.A. insurance premium two ways: with an upfront fee that can be included in the total loan amount and amortized over the life of the mortgage, or in a monthly fee.
 Starting this spring, the administration said, the upfront fee jumps to 2.25 percent of the loan amount from 1.75 percent, adding about $1,000 to a $200,000 loan. Monthly premium charges will essentially be unchanged.
 Previously, the F.H.A. insured loans made to those with credit scores of less than 580, with no penalties. Starting early this summer, the F.H.A. said, anyone with a credit score below 580 must make a down payment of at least 10 percent. (Credit scores are typically measured on a scale of 300 to 850; most non-F.H.A. lenders require larger down payments and offer higher rates if borrowers have credit scores below 700.)
 But because lenders have not been offering loans to those with scores of 580 or below, another F.H.A. change will most likely have a bigger impact. The seller could previously finance up to 6 percent of the home's closing costs when the borrower used an F.H.A. mortgage. That will drop to 3 percent this summer.
 Mortgage industry executives said that change could significantly affect borrowers who make upfront payments, known as ''points,'' to qualify for a loan at a competitive interest rate. (One point is equal to 1 percent of the loan amount.)
 Ms. Romanzi says closing costs in Long Island alone average about 3 percent of the loan amount, and can run even higher in New York City, where borrowers pay additional city mortgage taxes. In such areas, with traditionally high closing costs and selling prices pushing the F.H.A.'s $729,750 lending limit, borrowers will struggle if they need to come up with another 1 percent of the closing costs on their own, she said.
 Amid these changes, the F.H.A. is offering borrowers a break. In the past, buyers could not consider an F.H.A. loan for any property that had changed hands within the previous 90 days. This ''no-flipping'' rule blocked borrowers from the vast, and often low-priced, inventory of foreclosed homes.
 The F.H.A. waived the no-flipping rule until Feb. 1, 2011, with some exceptions. Properties cannot change hands between family members, for instance, and if the price is at least 20 percent higher than what the seller originally paid for the property, lenders can impose other conditions, like a second appraisal.
 Kim Neilson, the senior vice president at the McCue Mortgage Company in New Britain, Conn., said that giving F.H.A. borrowers the chance to buy recently foreclosed homes could spur home sales. 
 ''F.H.A. financing is the most flexible program out there today,'' she said. ''So this should stabilize current market conditions.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



899 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Stuck In Neutral? Reset The Mood

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC.

 BODY:
THE United States and other advanced economies may be facing a long, slow period of disappointing growth.
 That is a widespread concern, as recent polls demonstrate. A USA Today/Gallup poll, for example, found this month that about two-thirds of Americans say they think that economic recovery won't start for two more years, while 28 percent say it won't begin for at least five years.
 Among students of history, there are fears that we will suffer the type of chronic economic malaise that afflicted the world after the 1929 stock market crash, or that weakened Japan after the puncturing of twin stock and housing market bubbles around 1990. The post-1929 depression did not end for about a decade, and Japan has still not emerged from its post-1990 slowdown. 
 The fears themselves are an integral part of the problem. Economists have a tendency to assume that everyone's behavior is rational. But post-boom pessimism is a factor driving the economy, and it is likely to be associated with attitudes that may be enduring. 
 In reality, business recessions are caused by a curious mix of rational and irrational behavior. Negative feedback cycles, in which pessimism inhibits economic activity, are hard to stop and can stretch the financial system past its breaking point. 
 Today, banks are not making an abundance of new loans, and this is clearly linked to the decline in confidence. In an October survey, the Federal Reserve asked banks why they weren't lending. Respondents said the reasons were a reduced tolerance for risk, followed by a less favorable or more uncertain economic outlook and a worsening of industry-specific problems.
 If banks do not have the confidence to make loans, business cannot proceed, and the lack of confidence becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. This was recognized as a major problem during the Great Depression. Reflecting a common view of the time, a 1933 article by John Pell in the North American Review described this cycle as ''self-evident.'' 
 Mr. Pell gave the example of a start-up company that had a new idea for manufacturing a windshield wiper. The economy needed such ventures multiplied ''a few thousandfold,'' he said, to get rolling again. But if you tried to start such a venture, ''bankers would tell you that investors, on whom you must depend for your capital, were in no mood to tie up their funds, in an unliquid security, and were only interested in buying liquid, marketable, securities.'' 
 Were the investors described by Mr. Pell rational? That is an unanswerable, for no one can prove what the rational expectation should have been. But we do know that there was a negative ''mood,'' as he called it, that must have influenced their thinking.
 Today, after the speculative bubbles in the housing market, we are leaving a time of irrational exuberance when many people and financial institutions bet their future on speculative trading, not on genuine economic contribution. Speculation is a healthy capitalist activity, but there is a problem if it becomes a national obsession, as it did in the boom before this crisis. President Obama's proposed ''Volcker Rule,'' which seeks to limit bank risk-taking, may be seen as a response to widespread disillusionment with excessive speculation. 
 The present mood, though, needs to be put into a longer historical context. After World War II, there was rapid growth in labor productivity until sometime around the early 1970s. But then there was a major break, roughly coinciding with three events of 1973-74: the oil crisis, a huge stock market tumble and the first significant depression scare since the Great Depression itself.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, annual growth of business output per labor hour averaged 3.2 percent from 1948 to 1973, but only 1.9 percent from 1973 to 2008. 
 Ever since the long-term productivity slowdown became visible, the economist Samuel Bowles, now at the Santa Fe Institute, has said that its causes are to be found as much in the loss of ''hearts and minds'' of workers and investors as in technology. 
 This month at Yale, in lectures titled ''Machiavelli's Mistake,'' he spoke of the error of thinking that a high-performance economy could be based on self-interest alone. And he warned of the overuse of incentives that appeal to individual gain. 
 The speculative boom periods that ended a few years ago carried us into such overuse, and today's malaise is partly a result of our disorientation from that period.
 IN their coming book, ''Identity Economics,'' the economists George Akerlof of the University of California, Berkeley, and Rachel Kranton of the University of Maryland argue that an economy works well when people personally identify with it, so that their self-esteem is tied up with its activities.
 The authors emphasize this example from the military: Well-functioning fighting units have never been built on pay-for-service alone. People will sacrifice their lives if they believe in the cause and in one another. 
 In most civilian fields, job satisfaction may not be a life-or-death matter, but a relatively uninterested, insecure work force is unlikely to bring about a vigorous recovery.
 Solutions for the economy must address not only the structural instability of our financial institutions, but also these problems in the hearts and minds of workers and investors -- problems that may otherwise persist for many years. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2010

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about pessimism during a recession, misidentified the university where Rachel Kranton, co-author of the coming book ''Identity Economics,'' is a professor. Although she was previously at the University of Maryland, she is now at Duke.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); STARTUPS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); HISTORY (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



900 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: A Cut Above

BYLINE: By LINDA YABLONSKY

 BODY:
IN 1971, John Baldessari designed a print -- ''I will not make any more boring art'' -- that became legend. Mr. Baldessari, the pioneering California conceptualist, has been as good as his word. His videos, paintings, photographs and assemblages -- which he appropriates from existing imagery -- provoke laughter, puzzlement and admiration, often all at once. He layers his photographic works, juxtaposing multiple images from television, advertising or film. 
 A new book, ''John Baldessari: A Catalogue Raisonne of Prints and Multiples, 1971-2007'' (Hudson Hills Press), compiled by the art consultant Sharon Coplan Hurowitz, indexes the artist's extensive prints, which have appeared as etchings, lithographs, album and book covers, posters and billboards. ''Inexpensive art should be available to all,'' Mr. Baldessari writes in a foreword that should sound sweet to recession-weary ears. ''And printmaking is an excellent answer.'' LINDA YABLONSKY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN BALDESSARI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (88%); FILM (88%); PHOTOGRAPHY (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (86%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (84%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (55%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



901 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Those Underwater Loans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Underwater, but Will They Leave the Pool?'' (Economic View, Jan. 24), which described how millions of Americans owe more on their mortgages than their homes are now worth: 
 Many things we buy are immediately worth less than what we paid for them. But that doesn't stop the purchases. Many people buy houses because they want to live in them for the long run and are willing to pay the price. As long as they still enjoy their homes and can afford the payments, there is no reason to walk away from the loans. 
 Furthermore, home prices will rise again with long-term inflation. I live in a house that is valued at 60 times what I paid for it 58 years ago, even though its market price is down from last year. 
 Saul Ricklin
 Bristol, R.I., Jan 24
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



902 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: A Look at America's New Hope: The Afghan Tribes

BYLINE: By RUHULLAH KHAPALWAK and DAVID ROHDE

 BODY:
For three decades now, Communism, civil war and Islamic fundamentalism have laid siege to Afghanistan's tribes. In many ways, Afghanistan's tribal structure is arguably the weakest it has been in the country's history.
 Nonetheless, American civilian and military leaders are turning to some of these tribes as potentially their best hope for success against the resurgent Taliban after being frustrated by the weak central leadership of President Hamid Karzai.
Tribes have existed for millennia in the area that is present-day Afghanistan. They emerged over centuries in various sections of the country, taking form along extended kinship lines. Led by councils of elders, tribes provided their members with protection, financial support, a means to resolve disputes, and punishment of those who had committed crimes or broken tribal codes of conduct. 
 For Pashtuns, the country's largest ethnic group and the Taliban's primary source of support, tribes are particularly important. Successfully turning Pashtun tribes against the Taliban -- or perhaps families or sub-tribes if they deal with the government on their own -- could deliver a serious blow to the insurgency and potentially create a means of stabilizing the long-suffering country.
 Some Afghans, though, warn that the tribal system is not a panacea and fear that the United States is adopting a quick-fix approach that will not create long-term stability. They see the tribes as inherently anachronistic, sexist and corrupt -- a system that further undermines the already extraordinarily difficult task of creating multiethnic, merit-based national institutions. They warn that the country would be thrown into the hands of myriad tribal militias that the central government could never control.
 Last week, the importance of the tribes to American strategy became clear when the leaders of the Shinwari tribe in eastern Afghanistan agreed to work with the government and forbid cooperation with the Taliban. The pact was announced as a major first step for the American effort to win over the tribes.
 It was not the first time outsiders have turned to Afghanistan's tribes as allies and surrogates. The British, who fought Russia for control of the region in the 19th century, brought with them a practice of enlisting local leaders. After the British departed, Afghan kings in Kabul relied on the tribal structure to maintain stability and order in remote areas.
 But then came Communism in the mid-1970s, which viewed tribes as archaic obstacles to social progress and, most important, as a potential threat to party leaders' hold on power. Hundreds of tribal elders were taken from their homes and killed in a series of brutal crackdowns.
 At the same time, the United States, backed by the Saudi and Pakistani governments, unleashed its own assault on Afghanistan's tribes. American-backed Wahhabi fundamentalism created hundreds of thousands of young mujahadeen ''holy warriors'' to attack Soviet troops in Afghanistan. Religiously indoctrinated and flush with American cash, these young Afghan fighters viewed Muslim clerics and mujahadeen commanders -- not tribal elders -- as their true leaders.
 Once the Soviets left -- and in turn the Americans -- mujahadeen commanders turned on each other and the Taliban emerged as a force that, though repressive, at least provided law and order. The Taliban emphasized Islam as the organizing principle for society and government, not tribes. Across the country, little-known Muslim clerics ran government ministries, provinces and cities. Tribal elders were again ignored.
 Since being toppled in 2001, the Taliban have mercilessly targeted tribal elders who support the Karzai government, apparently viewing them as one of their greatest potential rivals. At the same time, President Karzai's weak government has struggled to protect and strengthen tribal elders, hundreds of whom have been killed in assassinations and bomb attacks.
 One hallmark of the American agreement with the Shinwari tribe is that $1 million in American development aid will go directly to Shinwari elders. The money will bypass Karzai government officials, whom Shinwari elders dismiss as corrupt and ineffective.
 Here is a rough picture of Afghanistan's traditional tribal structure and its leading tribes, as well as a description of how a reinvigorated tribal system -- in theory -- should work. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Allies: Last week, the Shinwari tribe vowed to fight the Taliban and its leaders attended the opening of a border police headquarters in Jalalabad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SETTLING DISPUTES: To settle disputes or make decisions, a meeting of elders, or jirga, can be called. Decisions require consensus to avert lingering antagonisms. Inter-tribal councils, even a national loya jirga, need consensus too. The rule means Afghans can talk for days to find a solution -- out of fear that walking away without agreement would end in fighting. Above, Pashtun tribal elders near Khost in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PROTECTION: An Afghan tribe will help defend its members if they are attacked by rivals or criminals.
LAW AND ORDER: Tribal elders will punish a tribesman who disobeys their rulings or commits a crime. In the past, powerful tribes arrested their tribesmen who were criminals and handed them over to government authorities.
ECONOMIC AID: If a family is poor, their tribe will help them financially. A wealthy landowner, for example, is more likely to hire field workers from his own tribe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE ELDERS: Tribal authority is exercised by elders at all levels -- from families to villages to district councils to councils that lead tribes. Elders are selected on the basis of family lineage and an individual's ability to help his tribe flourish. They should be well spoken, generous and brave. Their biggest political asset is their reputation
if they attract financial support for a village project like a road or a well, their standing in the village or larger council soars. If they fail to get the aid, they are said to lose face, meaning they fear their peers will think less of them. They can also lose face by breaking an agreement or failing to deliver on a promise to those they represent. Above, American soldiers meet with village elders in Paktika province in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUNO DOMINGOS/REUTERS) GRAPHIC: Five Rungs of the Traditional Afghan Tribal System: 1. Ethnicity
2. Tribal Confederations
3. Tribes: Pashtuns'
4. Sub-Tribes:
5. Families (GRAPHIC BY RUHULLAH KHAPALWAK, DAVID ROHDE AND BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TALIBAN (90%); RELIGION (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); MILLENNIUM (76%); FAMILY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHNICITY (73%); POLITICS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (68%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHOST, AFGHANISTAN (79%); JALALABAD, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); PAKISTAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



903 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS ST. NICHOLAS AVENUE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Tea and Uncertainty

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM

 BODY:
IN the living room of a century-old gray limestone town house in Sugar Hill, the Harlem neighborhood colonized by the city's African-American elite, the Kogan family is enjoying a peaceful Sunday morning.
 Paul Kogan, the vice president of an online computer gaming company, is pouring Assam black tea into white mugs emblazoned with photographs of three smiling children. These same children -- Jacob, 14; Sasha, 12; and Leo, 3 -- wander in and out as their mother, Deborah Copaken Kogan, a k a ''Shutterbabe,'' the title of her 2001 memoir about her experiences as a war photographer, calmly folds laundry. Splashes of color come from the vase of red tulips on the dining room table, which is made of old Indian railroad ties, and a bowl of clementines on a coffee table made of French tiles. 
 Except for the piles of socks and T-shirts, it looks like the ultimate Kodak moment. But the journey that led to this cozy domestic scene could not have been bumpier. And that journey involved seemingly every hot-button issue that arises when New Yorkers play the real estate game -- sputtering careers (made tougher to navigate by the recession), the location and costs of schools, and fiercely held opinions about the appeal of various neighborhoods. Add to the list the demands of a three-child family, a parent who works at home (Ms. Kogan, a writer as well as a photographer, is completing her fourth book), and a few spectacularly wrongheaded real estate decisions, and you have the recipe for a quintessentially New York crisis.
 ''At one point, money was so tight that a couple of our friends sent us $10,000 checks, which made us feel both incredibly grateful and slightly pathetic,'' Mr. Kogan said as he peeled a clementine. ''It was truly our annus horribilis.'' 
 The saga started in 1992. After various adventures around the globe, the Kogans, now both 43, rented a small, run-down apartment on West End Avenue for $950 a month. In 1995, married and expecting their first child, they bought a two-bedroom apartment on Riverside Drive for $225,000. ''First floor, dark, bus fumes,'' Ms. Kogan recalled. ''We vowed, never again.''
 In 2001, by then with two children, the couple made what Ms. Kogan described as ''the dumbest real estate mistake ever,'' moving to a three-bedroom apartment at 94th Street and Broadway for which the monthly rent was $7,100. ''It was like buying a small Korean car every month,'' Mr. Kogan said.
 The year 2002 found the family in a Classic 6 on West 96th Street. It was perfect in every respect, except for a third child on the way, Mr. Kogan's losing his job, private school tuition for Jacob, a puppy who was methodically destroying the place, and a need for office space for Ms. Kogan. Add to the list a rent of $4,200 that eventually climbed to $4,600 and was headed for $5,000.
 That period was shadowed by the illness and ultimate death of Ms. Kogan's father, whose final words to his daughter were, ''Promise me you won't move those kids to Brooklyn.''
 At this point in her life, Ms. Kogan had seen Harlem only through the windows of a Town Car. But she trolled Craigslist, met a few local residents, and in June of 2009, the family moved to the top three floors of the town house on St. Nicholas Avenue.
 Their quarters, for which they pay $3,500 in rent, are rich with the trappings of a peripatetic life. There are posters from France, where the couple met, along with kitsch from Mr. Kogan's native Russia, including an image of Lenin on a red velvet wall-hanging. In one bedroom is a wooden mask from the couple's honeymoon in Bali; in another is the blanket Ms. Kogan slept on when she worked in Afghanistan.
 Evidence of creativity abounds. 
 Though just a teenager, Jacob has a flourishing career as an actor, and in the family room hangs a poster for the 2007 psychological thriller ''Joshua,'' in which he plays the psychopathic title character. Jacob's four guitars are stashed in a corner of his bedroom, and on a wall of the bedroom that Sasha shares with Leo hang examples of her artwork, including a moody image of a woman painted when she was 7. 
 Lining a long hallway are Ms. Kogan's glossy black-and-white photographs of her family, interspersed with a few haunting images of her husband as a child.
 The total effect looks lively and effortless. But in fact, the decor was largely achieved on a strict budget. Ms. Kogan did much of the carpentry herself; she attributes her skills to the fact that a great-grandfather was a carpenter in Kiev. 
 Mastering the mysteries of the power drill and the molly bolt, she installed kitchen shelves and hung a spice rack, pot racks and knife holders. With the help of EasyClosets, Ms. Kogan also designed a walk-in closet online, then installed it ''after approximately 40 huge boxes arrived in a U.P.S. truck one day.''
 These construction tasks were, however, one-person endeavors.
 ''My husband, while a lovely man, did not do any of the heavy lifting with the drill,'' Ms. Kogan said in an e-mail message. ''He valiantly tried to help me do the kitchen shelves, but he stood there in front of the wall, panicking, not sure where to begin, so I just took out the laser level and told him I'd take over. He was, however, a great cheerleader and excellent lifter of heavy objects.''
 Financial corners were cut in other respects, with items from their old apartment imaginatively repurposed to suit their new one. Jacob's changing table was transformed into a television stand; a onetime liquor cabinet serves as a chest in his bedroom; and a wardrobe from the Kogans' former bedroom functions as a kitchen pantry. 
 The next chapter of the Kogans' lives involves a large if. The couple have an option to buy the house and will happily do so if they can pull together the down payment. They would do so even though they realize that the community has problems. Just weeks after they moved in, a rapist cut a swath through the neighborhood, with the last of four attacks occurring a block from their home. (A suspect has since been arrested.)
 At the same time, the family is enamored of Jackie Robinson Park down the block, especially its Olympic-size pool. A Starbucks, that avatar of a gentrifying neighborhood, recently opened nearby. Jacob, along with Sasha, who attends P.S. 334, the Anderson School, travel by bus and subway, and after Ms. Kogan drops Leo off at the Morningside Montessori School, she shops at the nearby Whole Foods. 
 This is a good arrangement, she says, because her neighborhood is almost entirely devoid of the inviting ethnic restaurants so prevalent on the Upper West Side.
 ''When we talk about our future and where we should live, Paul says there need to be at least two good restaurants within walking distance,'' Ms. Kogan said. ''So that's one thing we're waiting for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KITCHEN CABINET: Paul Kogan and Deborah Copaken Kogan with Jacob, Sasha and Leo in their Harlem apartment. (RE1)
 HOME AND STUDIO: Paul Kogan and Deborah Copaken Kogan have three floors of an old town house. She's a photographer, and a hall serves as a gallery for family portraits. Furnishings range from travel souvenirs to corrugated box architecture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); TEA (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); WRITERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASSAM, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



904 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Never Heard That Before

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Davos, Switzerland 

 BODY:
 As a political barometer, the Davos World Economic Forum usually offers up some revealing indicators of the global mood, and this year is no exception. I heard of a phrase being bandied about here by non-Americans -- about the United States -- that I can honestly say I've never heard before: ''political instability.''
 ''Political instability'' was a phrase normally reserved for countries like Russia or Iran or Honduras. But now, an American businessman here remarked to me, ''people ask me about 'political instability' in the U.S. We've become unpredictable to the world.'' 
 Mind you, people at international conferences love to criticize America, poke fun at America and complain about America. It is the only global sport more popular than soccer. But in the past, it was always done knowing that America was this global bedrock that could always be counted upon to lead. But this year is different. This year, Asians and Europeans, in particular, pull you aside and ask you some version of: ''Tell me, what's going on in your country?'' 
 We're making people nervous. 
 Banks, multinationals and hedge funds often hire foreign policy experts to do ''political risk analysis'' before they invest in places like, say, Kazakhstan or Argentina. They may soon have to add the United States to their watch lists. 
 You can understand why foreigners are uneasy. They look at America and see a president elected by a solid majority, coming into office riding a wave of optimism, controlling both the House and the Senate. Yet, a year later, he can't win passage of his top legislative priority: health care. 
 ''Our two-party political system is broken just when everything needs major repair, not minor repair,'' said K.R. Sridhar, the founder of Bloom Energy, a fuel cell company in Silicon Valley, who is attending the forum. ''I am talking about health care, infrastructure, education, energy. We are the ones who need a Marshall Plan now.'' 
 Indeed, speaking of phrases I've never heard here before, another goes like this: ''Is the 'Beijing Consensus' replacing the 'Washington Consensus?' '' Washington Consensus is a term coined after the cold war for the free-market, pro-trade and globalization policies promoted by America. As Katrin Bennhold reported in The International Herald Tribune this week, developing countries everywhere are looking ''for a recipe for faster growth and greater stability than that offered by the now tattered 'Washington Consensus' of open markets, floating currencies and free elections.'' And as they do, ''there is growing talk about a 'Beijing Consensus.' '' 
 The Beijing Consensus, says Bennhold, is a ''Confucian-Communist-Capitalist'' hybrid under the umbrella of a one-party state, with a lot of government guidance, strictly controlled capital markets and an authoritarian decision-making process that is capable of making tough choices and long-term investments, without having to heed daily public polls.
 Personally, I wouldn't give up on the Washington Consensus so fast. The reason it is ailing is not because of its principles promoting economic openness and trade, many of which China is practicing better than we are lately. It is failing more because of, well, Washington. 
 It was hard to read President Obama's eloquent State of the Union address and not feel torn between his vision for the coming years and the awareness that the forces of inertia and special interests blocking him -- not to mention the whole Republican Party -- make the chances of his implementing that vision highly unlikely. That is the definition of ''stuck.'' And right now we are stuck. 
 The sad and frustrating thing is, we are so close to being unstuck. If there were just six or eight Republican senators -- a few more Judd Greggs and Lindsey Grahams -- ready to meet Obama somewhere in the middle on deficit reduction, energy, health care and banking reform, I believe that in the wake of the Massachusetts wake-up call the president would indeed meet them in that middle ground to forge not just incremental compromises, but substantial ones on these key issues. But so far, the Republicans are having a good year politically by just being the Party of No. 
 It is a shame because here we are as a country scrounging around for a few billion more dollars of stimulus to help our unemployed and small businesses -- when the biggest stimulus of all is hiding in plain sight. And that is ending our political paralysis and the pall of uncertainty it is casting over everything from the cost of my health care to the cost of my energy to the way our biggest banks can do business.
 If the two parties could get together and remove the clouds of uncertainty over those issues, remove the growing sense that our country is politically paralyzed, you would not need another dime of stimulus money. Investment and lending would take off on their own. If, however, the two parties continue with their duel-to-the-death paralysis, no amount of stimulus will give us the sustained growth and employment we need. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); HEALTH CARE (63%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (61%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (52%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



905 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION LONG ISLAND; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Warming Up to Modern

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:
HUNTINGTON
 ON an Island awash with traditional colonials and Capes, Thomas Mojo and Mark Stumer, partners in a design firm, build architecturally unusual contemporary homes -- like the 2007 Maurer house, with its bands of dark wood, glass walls, black stone and smooth white finishes that they put up on a narrow lot near the water in Kings Point. 
 ''The people who come to us to build contemporary homes are rebels,'' said Mr. Mojo, whose company, Mojo Stumer Associates, also does its share of the conventional. ''Everybody else has the same type of home; they are all traditional homes.'' 
 Clients debate whether to follow the herd, he added, imagining aloud their internal debate: 
 '' 'If I build contemporary, what are my friends going to think?' It takes a bit of chutzpah to say, 'I am going to buck the trend.' '' 
 Of course, judging from most residential architecture on the Island, developers here since the midcentury period have not exactly seen their clientele as ''rebel'' material. Despite the overall influence of Modernism, economic forces kept it from becoming a major part of the landscape as suburbia grew. Of the Modern and contemporary homes on the Island, most are custom built.
 None of which has deterred the Heckscher Museum of Art in finding examples to highlight for ''Arcadia/Suburbia: Architecture on Long Island, 1930-2010,'' a new exhibit that runs through April 11. Maurer House is among the most recent of the 28 modern homes and 23 architects featured in the exhibit, curated by Dr. Erik Neil, an architectural historian -- who found the Island's role as an early setting for important Modernist homes a motivating factor in mounting the show. 
 In 1937, on a relatively small lot in Great Neck Estates, Frank Lloyd Wright used cypress, brick and red tile on the Rebhuhn house. In 1938 in Old Westbury, Edward Durell Stone, the architect of the first Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan, built the Goodyear House, a weekend retreat with curving walls, a flat roofline and large expanses of glass. In 1951 in Lloyd Neck, Marcel Breuer created the Hanson House, using a butterfly roof and fieldstone. And in 1956 in Lloyd Harbor, Philip Johnson built the Leonhardt House, its glassed-in public living areas seeming almost open to Long Island Sound.
 ''The good architecture has a kind of timeless quality to it,'' Dr. Neil said. ''Across the board these architects are much more sensitive to the site, to the landscape and nature.'' 
 The Modernist style, including homes built in the 1930s, '40s and '50s, ''makes living easier,'' he said. Space flows; glass is used in abundance. ''It is remarkable how uncluttered it is; it is clean, often brighter,'' he added. 
 Architects who specialize in Modern design describe a resurgence of attention to its values and aesthetics. Joseph Tanney, a principal at Resolution: 4, a 20-year-old architectural firm in Manhattan, said he had seen ''a rise in Modern design interest and awareness.'' 
 ''Modernism is often considered cold and stark and not necessarily domestic,'' Mr. Tanney said. ''When people get a chance to see examples of Modern domestic architecture done well, people warm up to it quickly and perceptions change.'' 
 When Michael and Victoria Longworth were considering tearing down their Lido Beach bungalow and building a larger home, ''they weren't particularly married to a Modern look,'' said Mr. Longworth, a Web designer. But after studying Resolution: 4's Modern modular designs, they changed their minds. As Mr. Longworth put it, ''The clean lines and look, the wood, the cedar, it just felt right and looked right in the neighborhood,'' a beach community -- even though most of the surrounding homes are more traditional Capes. 
 He described their new 2,600-square-foot five-bedroom three-bath home, completed last July and featured in digital renderings at the Heckscher exhibit, as ''very stylized,'' with the living spaces on the top floor and a roof deck to take advantage of the ocean views. The bedrooms are downstairs. ''This was a way to stand out but not be ridiculous,'' Mr. Longworth said. ''It's very rectangular but doesn't feel boxy or look boxy.'' 
 In Old Westbury recently, Marc Spector, a principal with the Spector Group, built a ''Modern Prairie-style'' home that incorporated the ''very clean modern lines and warmth of Frank Lloyd Wright's architecture.'' 
 Mr. Spector says the home was designed in response to a ''drive toward a much cleaner contemporary home'' that is ''less rigid, more transitional'' than purely Modernist homes, with their extended cantilevered rooflines, and extensive use of natural stone, mahogany and glass. 
 Contemporary homes cost 10 to 15 percent more to build, he said, partly because ''there is no room for error; the construction has to be perfect; you can't hide anything behind a base molding or a crown molding.'' 
 Paul Bentel, who with his brother, Peter, heads Bentel & Bentel, a second-generation Lattingtown architectural firm, acknowledged that ''contemporary still seems to be a special taste.'' 
 Many of those who originally built Modernist homes on the Island, he said, ''regarded themselves as pioneers,'' whereas most home buyers, far from seeing themselves as such, simply ''want to be safe -- they want to come home from work and be comfortable.''
 It is not uncommon in his Locust Valley neighborhood, Mr. Bentel said, for Modern homes built in the 1950s and 1960s to be torn down in favor of traditional homes.
 But on the other hand, he pointed out, those traditional exteriors may belie what's inside. He described the ''ethos of Modernism'' as having changed the look of interiors. 
 As evidence he cited the increasing popularity of multipurpose open floor plans. The great room incorporating the kitchen, instead of enclosed and self-contained, pays homage to what he calls the ''spirit of Modernism.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'VERY STYLIZED': Michael and Victoria Longworth opted for a Modern house after tearing down their old Lido Beach bungalow. A roof deck takes advantage of the ocean views. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HISTORY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



906 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: When a Portfolio Is Red or Blue

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
YOU'RE likely to feel more confident about the economy when your political party is in power. That's no surprise. But a new study has found that your feelings probably affect the way you invest your stock portfolio.
 The study, which has been circulating in academic circles since December, found that when an investor's favored political party held power in Washington, he or she generally increased holdings of risky stocks, shifted from foreign to domestic companies and traded less often. The opposite occurred when the preferred party was out of office. And the patterns held whether an investor was a Republican or a Democrat. 
 The study, ''Political Climate, Optimism, and Investment Decisions,'' focused on investor behavior from 1991 to 2002, a span that included years when each of the major political parties controlled both the White House and Congress. The authors are Yosef Bonaparte, an economics professor at the University of Southern Mississippi; Alok Kumar, a finance professor at the McCombs School of Business at the University of Texas at Austin; and Jeremy Page, a doctoral student at that institution.
 Linking individual investment behavior with political preference was tricky. The authors did it by analyzing two sets of data: the information that UBS and the Gallup organization gather each month to calculate the UBS Index of Investor Optimism and the trading histories of more than 60,000 retail investors at a major discount brokerage firm. 
 To preserve confidentiality, the brokerage firm's name was not disclosed in the study, and the firm did not divulge the identities of the account holders. But the ZIP code of each investor was provided to the researchers. By analyzing presidential election voting patterns county by county, the researchers determined the likely political preferences of these account holders. 
 The results were necessarily imprecise, but statistically significant patterns still emerged, the authors said.
 One of the primary findings concerned the relationship between investors' political optimism and their propensity to hold domestic stocks. When their preferred political party came to power, investors tended to become much more upbeat about the economy and the domestic stock market. This, in turn, led them to shift some of their foreign stock holdings to domestic shares.
 For example, when Democrats controlled the White House and Congress, Professor Kumar wrote in an e-mail message, ''investors in highly Republican counties had a 9 percent larger foreign stake in their stock portfolio than investors in highly Democratic counties.'' Just the opposite was the case for Democratic investors when the Republicans were in control.
 A similar pattern was evident in holdings of risky stocks, as measured by beta, a standard gauge of portfolio risk (the higher a stock's beta, the greater its price tends to swing). The research found that when investors' preferred party was in power, their portfolios' average beta was 1.3 percent higher than that of investors of the other party. 
 The researchers don't take a position on whether these portfolio shifts, in and of themselves, are a good or a bad idea. Their point is that, regardless of the intrinsic merits of any of these shifts, individual attitudes toward them often change with the political climate. In other words, objectivity is rare.
 NOW, for example, Democrats and Republicans alike may find it hard to be particularly confident about the economy and the stock market, with unemployment at 10 percent and government deficits swelling. But Democratic investors are still probably more confident than their Republican counterparts, Professor Kumar said, just as the reverse tends to be the pattern when Republicans are in control.
 The researchers did detect another pattern, however, that is classically self-destructive: Investors tend to trade more actively when their preferred party is out of power. In an interview, Professor Kumar speculated that this could be traced to reduced confidence about the stock market, which in turn causes investors to shun a buy-and-hold approach. 
 The researchers found that this more frequent trading resulted in inferior portfolio performance. Primarily for this reason, investors, on average, performed better when their political party was in power -- about 2.7 percent better a year.
 Dan Ariely, a professor of behavioral economics at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, said in an interview that the study's findings were consistent with what he has found in his research into other kinds of behavior.
 ''Though you might think that having money on the line provides a strong-enough incentive to keep political biases from affecting one's investment decisions, it shouldn't come as a surprise that it doesn't,'' said Professor Ariely, who is also the author of ''Predictably Irrational.'' ''In politics as in other arenas of life, our beliefs exert a powerful influence on the decisions we make.''
 These influences don't affect all investors equally, the study found. More educated and experienced investors were less likely to let their political biases lead to wholesale shifts in portfolios, the researchers said. Presumably, these investors were more aware of the importance of objectivity in investing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WRITERS (88%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); STATISTICS (71%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%)

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN MISSISSIPPI (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (55%) TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



907 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2109 words

HEADLINE: The Places They Go When Banks Say No

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
IN the glory days of the digital photo frame business, when his products were still a novelty and shoppers were flush with cash, getting a bank loan to manufacture them was a cinch, Michael Levy says.
 ''We would say: 'We got a $1 million order from the Sharper Image. We need financing. With a snap of the fingers, the guy drove down to my office, we'd sign a document, he'd give us the money,'' Mr. Levy recalls, sitting in the Deer Park, Long Island, office of the Media Street Group that he runs with his brother, Norm. 
 But like many other business owners, Mr. Levy saw his prospects change drastically in 2008 as the financial crisis unfolded. The Sharper Image and several other top customers filed for bankruptcy, and Mr. Levy found himself scrambling to keep the business afloat.
 His longtime bank wanted nothing to do with his company, Mr. Levy says, and several other banks spurned his loan requests, too. After a year of hand-wringing, he found an unconventional lender that was still making loans -- lots of them. 
 It's called Hartsko Financial Services, and it provides short-term credit to small and midsize companies that sell everything from olive oil to women's sandals. In the last year or so, companies have been beating a path to Hartsko, and to other businesses like it -- even if the loans are vastly more expensive than traditional ones from banks. 
 Richard Eitelberg, Hartsko's founder and president, said his company previously fielded many loan requests from companies on the financial brink. Now, he says, Hartsko can also pick from companies with solid financials that simply can't get a bank loan. ''What we are seeing is better deals than we did in the past,'' Mr. Eitelberg says. ''We were viable when banks were lending. Now we are overwhelmed.''
 Hartsko's office, which is surrounded by Irish pubs in the Bayside neighborhood of Queens, is a sharp departure from the sterile cubicles and prefabricated offices of most major bank branches. At Hartsko, nine employees vie for space in three modest rooms jammed with computers, printers and fax machines.
 The floor below Hartsko was occupied by a massage parlor until about a year ago, when it was closed by the vice squad, Mr. Eitelberg said. An acupuncture clinic took over the space.
 Mr. Eitelberg, a burly 47-year-old sports fan who favors untucked dress shirts and open collars, decorates his office with trinkets honoring New York sports teams; a full lineup of the Mets, in miniature, adorns a shelf behind his desk. There's also a poster of the Three Stooges in golf garb and a framed homage to Tiger Woods, which now prompts the occasional ribald joke from his employees.
 Just as the credit squeeze has pushed some consumers to unconventional sources of funding like pawn shops and payday lenders, a constriction in traditional bank lending to businesses has benefited companies like Hartsko.
 Small-business owners say banks routinely reject applications for loans that were readily available just two years ago. In addition, many say the limits on their credit cards have been cut as banks seek to limit their risk amid the economic turmoil. To help ease the situation, President Obama, in his State of the Union address on Wednesday, proposed giving $30 billion to community banks to make loans to small business. 
 Recently, the Treasury Department began tracking lending by the 22 largest bank recipients of federal bailout money, and it found a sizable decrease in small-business lending.
 During a seven-month period ended in November, the banks reduced their small-business lending by $12.5 billion, an overall decline of 4.6 percent, the data show. Wells Fargo and Bank of America, the two biggest small-business lenders, cut their lending by 4.4 percent and 6.2 percent, respectively, during that time.
 John Durrant, a senior vice president at Bank of America who oversees small-business loans, said that roughly half of the decline in lending to small businesses was attributable to decreased demand. In addition, he said a decline in sales and creditworthiness among small businesses had contributed to the slowdown.
 Bank of America lent $16 billion to small and midsize businesses in 2009 and plans to increase its lending by $5 billion this year, he said.
 Banks, of course, are now more reluctant to hand over money to small and midsize companies partly because the practice is riskier than it was just a few years ago, when consumers were spending freely. Banks are writing off record numbers of bad loans and have tightened their underwriting standards to limit their losses.
 ''After Chase said no, I went to Citibank. I went to Capitol One. I wasn't going to sit around waiting,'' says Mr. Levy, explaining that he needed to borrow $1 million last year for $1.5 million in purchase orders for new products, including frames with Wi-Fi access. ''All of them said the same thing: 'the underwriters, the underwriters.' They just tightened and, boom, they just shut it off.'' 
 WHEN small businesses face funding squeezes, Mr. Eitelberg and others like him offer an enticing, if expensive, pitch for desperate entrepreneurs. 
 He peddles what is known as purchase-order financing to companies that sell goods but often manufacture them in factories abroad. It is a relatively new line of business -- he estimates it's about 20 years old -- and a twist on the ancient and much larger practice of factoring, in which a business sells an invoice at a discount to get its money faster, providing the factoring company with a hefty fee.
 Purchase-order financing, though similar to factoring, is further up the financial food chain. Purchase orders are written guarantees from a buyer that it is committed to purchasing a product. By financing purchase orders, Mr. Eitelberg essentially pays the factory to manufacture the goods. Hartsko also pays to have the finished products shipped from the factory. Once Hartsko is paid for the merchandise, it takes its cut and hands over the rest to its customer.
 There are only a half-dozen or so major purchase-order financing companies in the country, and overall numbers on their business are hard to come by. A Hartsko competitor, Edward P. King, who founded the Dallas-based King Trade Capital 17 years ago, said his business grew about 10 percent in 2009. He said he could have done two or three times as much business but was cautious, given the uncertainty of the economy.
 ''It was a risky year,'' Mr. King says. ''We could have grown an enormous amount, but I'm not sure we wouldn't be fighting some battles right now.''
 (Banks may dabble in purchase-order financing, but usually only for existing clients. One big bank that that has a separate unit for such lending, Wells Fargo, says that this business has increased, even while its traditional small-business lending has dropped.) 
 Mr. Eitelberg says he doesn't care much about his customers' credit scores or their past financial problems. He simply wants to know that they have a solid deal in the works and a purchase order to prove it. ''We look for a viable transaction when we do business, not the net worth of the company or the balance sheet,'' he says. ''We say we look past the balance sheet.'' 
 Mr. Eitelberg estimates that his business increased 80 percent in 2009. But his money doesn't come cheap. It's typically 3.5 percent for the first 30 days, and 1.25 percent for every 10 days after that, an annualized percentage north of 40 percent. Most loans, he says, are repaid within 60 days.
 ''For lack of a better word, it's almost like loan sharking,'' says Mr. Levy, who said his bank loans were at 6 or 7 percent annualized interest. ''But, there's a need. I had no choice. It's the only way I was going to get the business.
 ''I know I paid them a lot, but without them, I would have been home watching cartoons.'' 
 Mr. Eitelberg bristles at such comments, saying purchase-order lending is ultimately a risky business and that his fees are more than justified. He says he bases his fees on industry averages and the cost for Hartsko to borrow money from a bank.
 ''We're just saying that for the period of time when you are using our bank lines and our cash to run your business that you pay us a fee for what that's worth,'' he says. ''We believe it's a rate that is fair.'' 
 Mr. Eitelberg began Hartsko in 2004 after working for years on the financial side of the garment industry, following in the footsteps of his father, who ran a women's swimwear company. He says he worked for several garment companies that struggled to stay afloat and had to seek purchase-order financing, often called P.O. financing. Mr. Eitelberg said he had an epiphany one day that he was in the wrong business.
 ''I said: 'It's amazing, the only person that came out of this thing was the P.O. financing company. They made a ton of money and these companies died,' '' he recalls. '' 'So why am I doing this. Why don't I do that?' '' 
 He started Hartsko with a loan from several investors and a $1 million credit line from a bank. He lent his first customer $200,000 to make throws and pillows, and his business has grown every year since, by networking at trade shows and word of mouth.
 These days, he says, Hartsko's customers fall into three categories: start-ups that have little or no collateral, growth companies that may be profitable but can't get enough financing from banks, and troubled companies that nonetheless have viable purchase orders.
 Last year, Hartsko lent roughly $150 million, compared with $84 million in 2008 and $60 million the year before that, he said. He estimates that the company will lend about $240 million this year. Profit, he says, was in the ''high six figures'' in 2009.
 Mr. Eitelberg oversees Hartsko's operation from a corner desk, with two of his employees close at hand: his father, Lenny Eitelberg, the former swimwear merchant, and Nelson Goldberg, another garment industry veteran. The three carry on a nearly constant banter about potential deals, loans that are under way and potential problems with existing clients.
 ''Nothing surprises us here,'' Lenny says. ''We've seen it all.'' 
 Mr. Eitelberg says he learned the hard way about the importance of background checks for his customers. Because Hartsko finances the production of goods -- rather than lending money directly to its customers -- it ends up owning the inventory if a deal collapses.
 So Hartsko has been stuck with auto parts, media players and women's sandals, which Mr. Eitelberg tries to sell for whatever he can get. But 49 boxes of the sandals remain stacked outside the office door, alongside the staircase. And he says he's still fighting to recover his biggest loan loss -- $500,000 that he lent to a company that says it was making olive oil in Italy, though the shipment never arrived. He estimates that roughly 5 percent of his deals go sour.
 As a result, Mr. Eitelberg now uses private detectives to help with background checks. In addition, he makes sure that merchandise is inspected before it leaves the factory.
 ON a recent weekday afternoon, two of Hartsko's customers stopped at the office to meet Mr. Eitelberg and to map out financing needs in the coming year. The customers, Erik Searles and Mark Cardinale, said they had bought a children's clothing brand called Sprockets and were hoping to sell the clothing nationwide.
 Mr. Eitelberg, who had already provided Sprockets with one loan, offered to continue financing the company until it was established enough to qualify for less expensive credit. 
 Like several other Hartsko customers, Mr. Searles said he was grateful, despite the cost of the loans. Instead, customers reserved their ire for the federal government and the banks, saying the billions of bailout money larded on Wall Street had done nothing to help them.
 ''The money isn't going to the people who actually need it,'' Mr. Cardinale says.
 James LaBarber, another Hartsko customer, whose company sells vinyl flooring, says he has been a customer at Bank of America for 29 years. But he said bank officials told him that it would take 6 to 12 months to get a loan.
 ''Trying to get a small-business loan is like trying to get someone out of Guantanamo Bay,'' Mr. LaBarber says.
 Bank of America said it does not comment about specific customers. 
 Mr. Eitelberg, too, wonders why some of the federal bailout money hasn't ended up in Hartsko's coffers. Even if his rates are relatively steep, he says, he is ultimately limited by how much money he can borrow from banks and would welcome a low-interest loan from the government.
 ''If I had money, I could lend it,'' he says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Small businesses are turning to alternative lenders like Richard Eitelberg of Hartsko Financial. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
 Michael Levy, whose firm makes digital frames, said that after the financial crisis, his traditional bank refused to finance a big order he received. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); SPORTS (60%); SPORTS FANS (60%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); MASSAGE SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: TSIC INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



908 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE SEARCH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Back to School, As an Adjunct

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI. 
E-mail: thesearch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN this time of job insecurity, the question may have occurred to you: Should you consider part-time teaching as a way to improve your finances and expand your career opportunities? 
 Becoming a teacher can be rigorous and time-consuming, but at the college level, part-time teaching is a realistic option for some professionals. Postsecondary schools are often willing to be flexible about academic credentials in return for real-world expertise. 
 The need for part-time professors, known as adjuncts, is high right now. Education is one of the few areas of the economy that has been expanding, partly because so many of the unemployed are returning to school. 
 You may not want to pursue teaching part time, however, if your motivation is mainly financial. The pay for adjunct professors is usually low, and the work can be challenging. Still, the nonmonetary rewards that come with teaching can be substantial. 
 Often, people need a minimum of a master's degree to work as adjunct professors, whether at two- or four-year colleges. But with the equivalent skills and expertise, even someone with only a bachelor's degree might be hired, said Claire Van Ummersen, vice president for the Center for Effective Leadership at the American Council on Education. 
 At Miami Dade College, which offers both two- and four-year degrees, adjunct professors teach subjects including speech, English, math, architecture, computer science, film, digital production, business and nursing, said Pamela Menke, associate provost of academic affairs. 
 Adjuncts are in demand both because enrollment is surging and because budget constraints have made it necessary to supplement full-time faculty, she said.
 In some fields that operate under the apprentice and craftsman model, the school will consider hiring teachers with only bachelor's degrees. Dr. Menke cited construction, automotive management and culinary arts as examples.
 A typical three-credit class lasting 13 or 14 weeks, taught once a week, might pay $2,100, she said. That doesn't include grading, course preparation and office hours, which can add 10 hours a week or so, she said. 
 Previous teaching experience is a big plus, of course, but not always required. Anne Zissu, chairwoman of the business department at the New York City College of Technology, says she considers related experience, like in-house training in the workplace, when she reviews applications. ''We have to be open-minded'' and consider the value of real-world experience, she said. 
 To find out about openings, check publications like The Chronicle of Higher Education or college Web sites. The Web site Adjunctnation.com also lists openings. You can also check directly with the head of a particular department.
 When applying to be an adjunct, emphasize your education, teaching experience and the expertise that you can offer to students, Dr. Ummersen said. 
 To those with little teaching experience, the idea of creating an entire course might seem daunting. Fortunately, many schools offer orientation sessions and run programs that help with planning coursework. And the school may already have full course materials available.
 An adjunct may be called in at the last minute to fill an unexpected vacancy, limiting preparation time, said Richard E. Lyons, senior consultant for Faculty Development Associates, which helps colleges train teachers.
 Being a part-time professor ''is hard work if you're going to do it right'' and requires lots of emotional energy, Dr. Lyons said. Professors sometimes say they feel frustrated because their students do not seem as bright or as motivated as they expected, he said. 
 And then there is the pay, which varies widely. Dr. Lyons has known pay to be as low as $1,500 for a three-credit course and to go as high as $10,000 to $12,000 for a course at the graduate level. But for most, the money will not match the effort expended.
 Still, part-time teaching can broaden one's resume and contacts, Dr. Lyons said. In professions like the law, he added, it can be an excellent way to find new clients. 
 And many adjunct professors discover that they simply love teaching. Dr. Menke of Miami Dade College said many adjuncts ''get very excited about teaching, and they love interacting with students.''
 For John Dello Russo, who owns two vision care centers, being an adjunct professor is a way to do something for his alma mater, the New York City College of Technology, and for the broader community. 
 Mr. Dello Russo has taught classes including marketing, business math and entrepreneurship for the last 10 years. He started out with no teaching experience.
 His students give him new ideas and help him stay on top of the latest trends, he said. ''They give more back to me than I give to them,'' he said.
 And he is glad to know that five of his former students have started businesses of their own. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (64%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (60%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (69%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



909 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Princeton's Type-A-Plus Students Chafe at Grade Deflation

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO; David Walter contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When Princeton University set out six years ago to corral galloping grade inflation by putting a lid on A's, many in academia lauded it for taking a stand on a national problem and predicted that others would follow.
 But the idea never took hold beyond Princeton's walls, and so its bold vision is now running into fierce resistance from the school's Type-A-plus student body. 
 With the job market not what it once was, even for Ivy Leaguers, Princetonians are complaining that the campaign against bulked-up G.P.A.'s may be coming at their expense.
 ''The nightmare scenario, if you will, is that you apply with a 3.5 from Princeton and someone just as smart as you applies with a 3.8 from Yale,'' said Daniel E. Rauch, a senior from Millburn, N.J.
 The percentage of Princeton grades in the A range dipped below 40 percent last year, down from nearly 50 percent when the policy was adopted in 2004. The class of 2009 had a mean grade-point average of 3.39, compared with 3.46 for the class of 2003. In a survey last year by the undergraduate student government, 32 percent of students cited the grading policy as the top source of unhappiness (compared with 25 percent for lack of sleep).
 In September, the student government sent a letter to the faculty questioning whether professors were being overzealous in applying the policy. And last month, The Daily Princetonian denounced the policy in an editorial, saying it had ''too many harmful consequences that outweigh the good intentions behind the system.'' 
 The undergraduate student body president, Connor Diemand-Yauman, a senior from Chesterland, Ohio, said: ''I had complaints from students who said that their professors handed back exams and told them, 'I wanted to give 10 of you A's, but because of the policy, I could only give five A's.' When students hear that, an alarm goes off.''
 Nancy Weiss Malkiel, dean of the undergraduate college at Princeton, said the policy was not meant to establish such grade quotas, but to set a goal: Over time and across all academic departments, no more than 35 percent of grades in undergraduate courses would be A-plus, A or A-minus. 
 Early on, Dr. Malkiel sent 3,000 letters explaining the change to admissions officers at graduate schools and employers across the country, and every transcript goes out with a statement about the policy. But recently, the university administration has been under pressure to do more. So it created a question-and-answer booklet that it is now sending to many of the same graduate schools and employers.
 Princeton also studied the effects on admissions rates to top medical schools and law schools, and found none. While the number of graduates securing jobs in finance or consulting dropped to 169 last year from 249 in 2008 and 194 in 2004, the university attributed the falloff to the recession. (Each graduating class has about 1,100 students.)
 But the drop in job placements, whatever the cause, has fueled the arguments of those opposed to the policy. The grading change at Princeton was prompted by the creep of A's, which accelerated in the 1990s, and the wildly divergent approaches to grading across disciplines. Historically, students in the natural sciences were graded far more rigorously, for example, than their classmates in the humanities, a gap that has narrowed but that still exists.
 Some students respect the tougher posture. ''What people don't realize is that grades at different schools always have different meanings, and people at Goldman Sachs or the Marshall Scholarship have tons of experience assessing different G.P.A.'s,'' said Jonathan Sarnoff, a sophomore who sits on the editorial board of The Daily Princetonian. ''A Princeton G.P.A. is different from the G.P.A. at the College of New Jersey down the road.''
 Faye Deal, the associate dean for admissions and financial aid at Stanford Law School, said she had read Princeton's literature on the policy and continued ''to view Princeton candidates in the same fashion -- strong applicants with excellent preparation.''
 Goldman Sachs, one of the most sought-after employers, said it did not apply a rigid G.P.A. cutoff. ''Princeton knows that; everyone knows that,'' said Gia Moron, a company spokeswoman, explaining that recruiters consider six ''core measurements,'' including achievement, leadership and commercial focus.
 But Princetonians remain skeptical. 
 ''There are tons of really great schools with really smart kids applying for the same jobs,'' said Jacob Loewenstein, a junior from Lawrence, N.Y., who is majoring in German. ''People intuitively take a G.P.A. to be a representation of your academic ability and act accordingly. The assumption that a recruiter who is screening applications is going to treat a Princeton student differently based on a letter is naive.''
 Stuart Rojstaczer, a retired professor at Duke who maintains a Web site dedicated to exposing grade inflation, said that Princeton's policy was ''something that other institutions can easily emulate, and should emulate, but will not.'' For now, Princeton and its students are still the exception. ''If that means we're out in a leadership position and, in a sense, in a lonelier position, then we're prepared to do that,'' Dr. Malkiel said. ''We're quite confident that what we have done is right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POLICY SHIFT: Princeton students fear that G.P.A. deflation at the university will put them at a disadvantage in the job market.(MB1)
DIFFERENT VIEWS: Some students, like Jonathan Sarnoff, above, are not worried. ''A Princeton G.P.A. is different from the G.P.A. at the College of New Jersey,'' he said. But Jacob Loewenstein, right, said, ''There are tons of really great schools with really smart kids applying for the same jobs.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB11) CHARTS: Grade Deflation: After its grades rose for more than two decades, Princeton University in 2004 urged professors to limit the number of A's.
Grade-point average
G.P.A. by discipline (Sources: Stuart Rojstaczer, gradeinflation.com
 Princeton University)(MB11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



910 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Smart Dust? Not Quite, but We're Getting There

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In computing, the vision always precedes the reality by a decade or more. The pattern has held true from the personal computer to the Internet, as it takes time, brainpower and investment to conquer the scientific and economic obstacles to nudging a game-changing technology toward the mainstream.
 The same pattern, according to scientists in universities and corporate laboratories, is unfolding in the field of sensor-based computing. Years ago, enthusiasts predicted the coming of ''smart dust'' -- tiny digital sensors, strewn around the globe, gathering all sorts of information and communicating with powerful computer networks to monitor, measure and understand the physical world in new ways. But this intriguing vision seemed plucked from the realm of science fiction. 
 Smart dust, to be sure, remains a ways off. But technology's virtuous cycle of smaller, faster and cheaper has reached the point that experts say sensors may soon be powerful enough to be the equivalent of tiny computers. Some ambitious sensor research projects provide a glimpse of where things are headed.
 Last year, Hewlett-Packard began a project it grandly calls ''Central Nervous System for the Earth,'' a 10-year initiative to embed up to a trillion pushpin-size sensors around the globe. H.P. researchers, combining electronics and nanotechnology expertise, announced in November that they had developed sensors with accelerometers that were up to 1,000 times more sensitive than the commercial motion detectors used in Nintendo Wii video game controllers and some smartphones.
 The use of accelerometers in consumer products points to the changing economics of sensors, notes Peter Hartwell, a senior researcher at H.P. Labs. In the 1980s, accelerometers began to be used in automobiles, to detect crashes so that air bags would inflate. That was a specialized, costly application of motion sensing. But today's low-cost sensors, Mr. Hartwell says, are opening the door to widespread use, linking the physical world to computing as never before.
 In places like desktops and data centers, computing power marches ahead relentlessly. ''But it is still as if the computer is a brain that is blind, deaf and dumb to its surroundings,'' Mr. Hartwell says. ''Closing that gap is what the sensor revolution is all about.''
 Microchip-equipped sensors can be designed to monitor and measure not only motion, but also temperature, chemical contamination or biological changes. The applications for sensor-based computing, experts say, include buildings that manage their own energy use, bridges that sense motion and metal fatigue to tell engineers they need repairs, cars that track traffic patterns and report potholes, and fruit and vegetable shipments that tell grocers when they ripen and begin to spoil.
 Power consumption has long been the Achilles' heel of sensor-based computing. Smart dust, observed Joshua Smith, a principal engineer at Intel Labs in Seattle, proved impossible because the clever sensors needed batteries. Instead of dust, he said, the sensor nodules would be the size of grapefruits.
 But the power barrier, Mr. Smith says, is rapidly eroding. Advances in sensor chips are delivering predictable, rapid progress in the amount of data processing that can be done per unit of energy. That, he said, expands the potential data workloads that sensors can handle and the distance over which they can communicate -- without batteries.
 At Intel, Mr. Smith is doing sensor research that builds on commercial RFID technology (for remote identification) and adds an accelerometer and a programmable chip -- in a package measured in millimeters. Its power, he explains, can come from either a radio-frequency reader, as in RFID, or the ambient radio power from television, FM radio and WiFi networks. (For the latter, Intel is developing ''power-harvesting circuits,'' he adds.) 
 ''The ability to eliminate batteries for these sensors brings the vision of smart dust closer to reality,'' Mr. Smith says.
 In this model of computing, the sensors are servants. They exist to generate data. And the more sensors there are, the better the data quality should be. When mined and analyzed, better data should in turn help people make smarter decisions about things as diverse as energy policy and product marketing.
 If sensor-based computing takes off, it will ignite fresh demand for a wide range of hardware and software to store, process and search the new oceans of data for nuggets of useful knowledge. So it could be a boon to business, a foundation for what analysts call ''the Internet of Things.''
 ''It does feel almost like the beginning of the Internet,'' says Katharine Frase, vice president for emerging technologies at I.B.M. Research. ''You can see that sensor computing is going to be important and useful, but it's not possible to see in advance just how it will transform things.''
 The recent advances in stand-alone sensors may be impressive, but some researchers are pursuing a different path. ''We already have massively distributed wireless sensors -- they're called cellphones,'' explains Deborah Estrin, a computer scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 Ms. Estrin and her colleagues at the university's Center for Embedded Networked Sensing have designed several projects that use cellphones and people in data-gathering and analysis. Cellphones, they say, are versatile data collectors and are becoming more powerful all the time -- with cameras, GPS, accelerometers and Internet connectivity. Their work is at the forefront of an emerging field called participatory sensing. 
 One project involves collecting travel, time and location data that is fed into Web databases to calculate an individual's personal environmental impact and exposure to pollutants (peir.cens.ucla.edu). Another project, in cooperation with the National Park Service, uses a smartphone application to identify, photograph and track the advance of invasive plants, like Harding grass and poison hemlock, which can crowd out local species and undermine biodiversity (whatsinvasive.com).
 STILL another is a Twitter application for self-reported data on one's daily life (your.flowingdata.com), which can be assembled into small graphs that show a person's behavior over time. The most common use since the site went up last fall, says Nathan Yau, a graduate student who created the application, has been to track personal health -- eating habits, weight, blood pressure, glucose and sleep times.
 The cellphone is a constant companion -- immediate and intimate, always there to inform, remind and prompt. ''The killer app for this is personalized health and wellness,'' Ms. Estrin says. ''The potential to help people make behavior changes and lead healthier lives is tremendous.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Hartwell of Hewlett-Packard Labs compares today's computers to brains that are blind to their surroundings. But development of low-cost sensors, he says, is ''closing that gap.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (90%); MOTION DETECTORS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); NANOELECTRONICS (73%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (68%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (68%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (64%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%); NINTENDO CO LTD (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (55%); 7974 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



911 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: The Muddled Selling Of the President

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On this much, President Obama's friends and foes could agree: He eludes simple labels.
 Yes, he's a liberal, except when he's not. He's antiwar, except for the one he's escalating. He's for bailouts, but wants to rein in the banks. He's concentrating ever-more power in the West Wing, except when he's being overly deferential to Congress. He's cool, except when he's fighting-hot.
 In a world that presents so many fast-moving and intractable problems, nuance, flexibility, pragmatism -- even a full range of human emotions -- are no doubt good things. But as Mr. Obama wrapped up his State of the Union address on Wednesday night with an appeal to transcend partisan gamesmanship, he was plaintively testing a broader proposition: Is it possible to embrace complexity in a political and media culture that demands simple themes and promotes conflict?
 The president, whose hallmark has been ideological eclecticism, would clearly like to think the answer is yes. But a year into his presidency, Mr. Obama has lost control of his political narrative, his ability to define the story of his presidency on his own terms. And the main reason is that his story is no longer so simple or easy to tell. 
 That is no small thing. Since George Washington, presidents have cultivated thematic definitions of themselves to shape the way their choices are perceived. A strong, clear narrative helps a president connect with voters and explain the journey he is leading. The lack of one invites opponents to craft a less flattering portrayal.
 As he tries to absorb the lessons of his first 12 months in office and push ahead with his agenda in an election year that holds great peril for his party, Mr. Obama faces a narrative vacuum.
 The novelty factor has worn off, along with the power of his positioning as the not-Bush. He is confronting an opposition that, despite the civil tone both sides maintained during his public Q. and A. session with House Republicans on Friday, has remained remarkably unified in trying to block him at every turn.
 Substantively, he has failed, so far, to pass his signature initiative, a health care bill. While the report on Friday that the economy grew at a brisk 5.7 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter was a mark of how much the situation has improved in a year, voters could be forgiven for not being more impressed with his biggest legislative accomplishment, passage of the $787 billion economic stimulus bill, given that the unemployment rate remains in double digits.
 Right now, he's at risk of his default narrative being: He saved the banks.
 ''You've got to have a clear, easy to understand story,'' said Mark McKinnon, an image-maker for George W. Bush's two presidential campaigns but a professed admirer of Mr. Obama. ''Obama's story is getting very complicated and confusing for voters. Obama is trying to do it all and appease too many constituencies. Voters like him and think he's smart. But they're not exactly clear whose side he's fighting on.''
 Mr. Obama rode into office on one of the most elegant narratives in recent campaign history: that he was the embodiment of hope and change. It caught the national mood, yet remained vague enough to mean pretty much whatever a voter wanted it to mean.
 But there was always a dialectical quality to the combination of hope (rather than remaining polarized, we could pursue what is right as Americans) and change (we should reverse pretty much everything done by Mr. Bush). This tension made the narrative difficult to sustain when Mr. Obama moved from campaigning to governing.
 The challenge became more difficult when it became clear late in 2008 that Mr. Obama's initial agenda would not be one of his choosing. With the financial system melting down, Mr. Obama actively supported crisis steps being taken by the Bush administration -- including the bank bailouts that everyone knew would blow up politically at some point -- and carried them forward.
 Suddenly, as the presidential historian Richard Norton Smith put it, ''the candidate of change became the president of continuity.''
 Just how much so was evident last week, at a Congressional hearing on the rescue in late 2008 of the giant insurer A.I.G. Mr. Obama's Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, came under withering bipartisan criticism. About the only person in the room to stand shoulder to shoulder with Mr. Geithner was his predecessor from the Bush administration, Henry Paulson.
 ''Obama campaigned on a critique of what was wrong with the American economy and an idea of how to restore a sense of progress and opportunity,'' said John Podesta, who runs the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group that advises Mr. Obama. ''He needs to reestablish that narrative. The public has shifted in a very dangerous way to thinking he cared more about dealing with Wall Street than he cared about dealing with their problems.''
 Todd Gitlin, the Columbia University sociologist and writer, said Mr. Obama embodies two discordant strains of American politics: the progressive, with its high-minded appeal to reason and reform, and the populist, fired by working-class resentment over inequality.
 But he suggested that Mr. Obama's room to maintain both could be limited by the rise of the Tea Party movement and the need to respond aggressively to its often virulent antigovernment message.
 The White House largely dismisses the warnings. ''The president has had a consistent political narrative since the day he stepped on the national stage in 2004,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''The interpretation of it is cyclical.''
 Yet Mr. Obama acknowledged in his State of the Union address that voters had grown doubtful about his promise of hope and change. Polls suggest he is losing support among independents, and his liberal base is agitated over his Afghanistan policy, his budget and his willingness to compromise on health care.
 Rather than moving distinctly right or left or ratcheting up the fighting-mode response he tried out after his party's stunning loss in the Massachusetts Senate race, his approach last week was to offer something to everyone. There was a promise to move ahead on a measure to allow gay men and women to serve openly in the military, reassurance that the war in Iraq is coming to an end, reassurance that he would fight on in Afghanistan, and proposals for tax cuts for small business, tax credits for families with children, a tax on banks and a freeze on a portion of domestic spending. To Republicans, there was a promise that he would listen to their ideas.
 The big question is whether voters perceive him as post-ideological and pragmatic or inconsistent and pandering. He's not likely to get much help from today's political-media complex, where it is easy to be undercut by ideological crossfire and there are few platforms for nuance.
 Mr. Obama has long since given up on Fox News, but he can be excoriated as well from the left. When word leaked last Monday night that he would propose freezing a portion of the domestic budget for three years starting next year, Rachel Maddow of MSNBC likened the plan to ''stupid Hooverism.''
 So even defining himself more sharply might not help Mr. Obama because the fragmentation of media and the quickened news cycle means any president has much less power to shape his own narrative. It's not clear whether Mr. Obama's way of dealing with the problem -- what often seems like ubiquity -- helps him or hurts.
 ''If you look at the way the media has been transformed and the way the White House is covered,'' Mr. Smith said, ''the bully pulpit itself is in danger of being drowned out by talk radio, cable and now Twitter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MANTRAS: The campaign themes of ''hope'' and ''change'' had an inherent tension. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



912 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Site For Terror Trial Isn't Its Only Obstacle

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
For much of President Obama's first year in office, his national security team worked to devise a secure plan to send dozens of Yemeni detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba -- the largest single group at the prison camp -- home to Yemen, perhaps to a rehabilitation program.
 Then came the Christmas Day airliner bombing attempt, which was planned in Yemen, and the president put all transfers there on hold. 
 Since November, the administration had been preparing to move the highest-profile Guantanamo prisoners -- Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and four accomplices accused of plotting the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks -- to Manhattan for a federal criminal trial.
 But overwhelming opposition from New York politicians concerned about costs, disruptions and security now has the Justice Department scrambling to come up with a Plan B, even as Congress threatens to block money to pay for a criminal 9/11 trial altogether. That could force the administration to revive the very option that the president and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. had rejected: military commissions at Guantanamo for the 9/11 plotters.
 For a president who campaigned on a promise to close Guantanamo, and who just missed a self-imposed one-year deadline to get the job done, the meltdown of a potential Manhattan 9/11 trial is the latest measure of the stubborn complexity of his national security inheritance.
 ''It's obviously proven a lot more difficult than a lot of us expected to close Guantanamo,'' said Sarah E. Mendelson of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, who has studied the issue intensively. She called the turnaround of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and other New York officials ''disappointing'' and the costly security plan they proposed for Manhattan excessive, given the major Al Qaeda trials held there in the past with far less disruptive procedures.
 ''We need to develop a greater resiliency in this country on security issues,'' she said. ''The administration needs to remind the American public that we have convicted 195 international terrorists in federal courts since 2001.''
 For some who have always advocated military commissions for the 9/11 plotters, the demise of the Manhattan plan simply proved their point. ''It just shows what a dumb idea it was in the first place,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, in an interview Thursday.
 Mr. Graham plans to reintroduce legislation in a few days to block criminal trials for the 9/11 suspects altogether. A similar bill is already pending in the House. Two Democratic senators, Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas and Jim Webb of Virginia, joined several Republican colleagues last week in coming out against criminal trials for the Qaeda plotters, raising opponents' hopes that Congress could make the hunt for a new 9/11 courthouse moot.
 ''The attacks of 9/11 were acts of war, and those who planned and carried out those attacks are war criminals,'' the group of six senators wrote in a letter to the attorney general. They said that any American venue for a trial would become a terrorist target, and that military commissions were the proper way to bring terrorists to justice.
 But administration officials note that 348 international and domestic terrorists are being held in federal prisons after they were convicted in civilian criminal trials. By contrast, in the eight years since the Bush administration first set up military commissions, only three Guantanamo detainees have been convicted, in part because of legal challenges to the tribunals. Two of the three received modest sentences and are now free.
 Mr. Obama last week restated his commitment to criminal 9/11 trials, and the Justice Department is looking at alternative sites, including some on military bases or at prison complexes. Federal venue rules provide for wide leeway in choosing a location, requiring only ''a plausible connection'' between the crime and the district, said Stephen I. Vladeck, a law professor at American University.
 For a murder charge, federal law requires a trial venue tied to ''the place where the injury was inflicted, or the poison administered or other means employed which caused the death.'' Mr. Vladeck said that might arguably extend beyond the sites where the hijacked airliners crashed -- New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia -- to Massachusetts and New Jersey, where two of the jets took off.
 For a terrorism conspiracy charge, the list of possible venues could grow still longer to include states where the hijackers lived and plotted, among them California, Maryland and Florida.
 The most experienced terrorism prosecutors are in New York's Southern District, which includes Manhattan, the Bronx and six counties north of the city. The next most experienced are in the Eastern District of Virginia, outside Washington, which also meets the jurisdictional requirements. There are numerous military installations in both districts, though most lack adequate facilities to host a trial. 
 The same factors that created resistance to a high-profile 9/11 trial in New York City could block one elsewhere. But in Newburgh, N.Y., population 28,000 -- which has drawn some attention because of its location in the Southern District and its Air National Guard base -- Mayor Nicholas Valentine was undeterred by Mayor Bloomberg's doubts and stepped forward on Friday to volunteer his city as a venue for the trial.
 ''The city of Newburgh is a poor place,'' Mr. Valentine said in an interview with Fox News, ''and we could really use the economic stimulus that a federal program like this could bring.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); MILITARY COURTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRISONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); AL-QAEDA (62%); CHRISTMAS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); JIM WEBB (55%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (55%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (55%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) YEMEN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



913 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: The State of the Union Is Comatose

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
HANDS down, the State of the Union's big moment was Barack Obama's direct hit on the delicate sensibilities of the Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito. The president was right to blast the 5-to-4 decision giving corporate interests an even greater stranglehold over a government they already regard as a partially owned onshore subsidiary. How satisfying it was to watch him provoke Alito into a ''You lie!'' snit. Here was a fight we could believe in. 
 There was more to admire in Obama's performance as well. He did not retreat into the bite-size initiatives -- V-chips, school uniforms -- embraced by an emasculated Bill Clinton after his midterm pummeling of 1994. The president's big original goals -- health care, economic recovery, financial reform -- remained nominally intact, as did his sense of humor. In a rhetorical touch William Safire would have relished, Obama had the wit to rush the ritualistic ''our union is strong'' so it would not prompt the usual jingoistic ovation. 
 Good thing, too, since our union is not strong. It is paralyzed. Many Americans were more eagerly anticipating Steve Jobs's address in San Francisco on Wednesday morning than the president's that night because they have far more confidence in Apple than Washington to produce concrete change. One year into Obama's term we still don't know whether he has what it takes to get American governance functioning again. But we do know that no speech can do the job. The president must act. Only body blows to the legislative branch can move the country forward.
 The historian Alan Brinkley has observed that we will soon enter the fourth decade in which Congress -- and therefore government as a whole -- has failed to deal with any major national problem, from infrastructure to education. The gridlock isn't only a function of polarized politics and special interests. There's also been a gaping leadership deficit. 
 In Obama's speech, he kept circling back to a Senate where both parties are dysfunctional. The obstructionist Republicans, he observed, will say no to every single bill ''just because they can.'' But no less culpable are the Democrats, who maintain ''the largest majority in decades'' even after losing Teddy Kennedy's seat -- and yet would rather ''run for the hills'' than accomplish anything.
 What does strong Senate leadership look like? That would be L.B.J. in the pre-Kennedy era. Operating with the narrowest of majorities and under an opposition president, he was able to transform a sleepy, seniority-hobbled, regionally polarized debating society into an often-progressive legislative factory. As Robert Caro tells the story in his book ''Master of the Senate,'' this Senate leader had determination, ''a gift for grand strategy,'' and a sixth sense for grabbing opportunities for action before they vanished for good. He could recognize ''the key that might suddenly unlock votes that had seemed locked forever away'' and turn it quickly. The horse trading with recalcitrant senators was often crude and cynical, but the job got done. L.B.J. knew how to reward -- and how to punish.
 We keep hearing that they just don't make legislative giants like that anymore. In truth, the long drought has led us to forget what they look like and to define senatorial leadership down. L.B.J.'s current successor, Harry Reid, could be found yawning on camera Wednesday night. He might as well have just taken the whole nap. Here was this leader's pronouncement last week on the future of the president and his party's No. 1 priority: ''We're not on health care now. We've talked a lot about it in the past.'' Yes, a lot of talk -- a year's worth, in fact -- with nothing to show for it.
 If Reid can serve as the face of Democratic fecklessness in the Senate, then John McCain epitomizes the unpatriotic opposition. On Wednesday night he could be seen sneering when Obama pointed out that most of the debt vilified by Republicans happened on the watch of a Republican president and Congress that never paid for ''two wars, two tax cuts, and an expensive prescription drug program.'' The president's indictment could have been more lacerating. Crunching Congressional Budget Office numbers, David Leonhardt of The Times calculated that of the projected $2 trillion swing into the red between the Clinton surplus and 2012, some 33 percent could be attributed to Bush legislation and another 20 percent to Bush-initiated spending (Iraq, TARP) continued by Obama. Only 7 percent of the deficit could be credited to the Obama stimulus bill and 3 percent to his other initiatives. (The business cycle accounts for the other 37 percent.)
 Perhaps McCain was sneering at Obama because of the Beltway's newest unquestioned cliche: one year after a new president takes office he is required to stop blaming his predecessor for the calamities left behind. Who dreamed up that canard -- Alito? F.D.R. never followed it. In an October 1936 speech, nearly four years after Hoover, Roosevelt was still railing against the ''hear-nothing, see-nothing, do-nothing government'' he had inherited. He reminded unemployed and destitute radio listeners that there had been ''nine crazy years at the ticker'' and ''nine mad years of mirage'' followed by three long years of bread lines and despair. F.D.R. soon won re-election in the greatest landslide the country had seen. 
 Obama should turn up the heat on both the G.O.P's record of fiscal recklessness and its mad-dog obstructionism. He should stop paying lip service to the fantasy that his Congressional opposition has serious ideas to contribute to the cleanup. Better still, he should publicize exactly what those ''ideas'' are.
 Yes, the Republicans were correct to laugh at one of the president's own gimmicks on Wednesday night: a symbolic and pointless spending ''freeze.'' But their own alternatives are downright hilarious. When the G.O.P. House leadership last year announced its plan to cut federal spending by $75 billion annually, it enumerated specific new cuts of only $5 billion per year. A tax-cut-laden ''stimulus plan'' endorsed by Jim DeMint, the South Carolina senator and Tea Party hero, ''would cost more than $3 trillion -- more than triple the cost of Obama's stimulus -- over the next decade,'' in the estimate of Jonathan Chait of The New Republic. 
 On State of the Union day, the Republican National Committee gathered at its winter meeting at Waikiki Beach to battle over a measure that would deny campaign funds to candidates who didn't pass a Tea Party ideological purity test. Back in Washington, other party thinkers trotted out some more brilliant ideas. Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin congressman hailed as the Republicans' new intellectual hope, laid out a lengthy ''G.O.P. Road Map for America's Future'' on The Wall Street Journal op-ed page that proposed cutting taxes (disproportionately for the wealthy) and privatizing Medicare and Social Security but devoted no bullet point to creating jobs for Americans in urgent need. On the Hill that morning, Michele Bachmann of Minnesota led House colleagues in signing a ''Declaration of Health Care Independence'' to complement a bill that would let Americans ''purchase insurance with their own tax-free money.'' Gee, why did no else think of that ingenious fix for a health care system that leaves 46.3 million uninsured and whose runaway costs are on track to eat up one-fifth of the American economy? 
 It was a heartening breakthrough when Obama dismissed such idiocies repeatedly in his televised meeting with House Republicans on Friday. He mocked G.O.P. legislative snake oil that promises to lower all medical costs and ''won't cost anybody anything.'' He must keep this up -- and be equally tough on the slackers in his own party who stall his agenda. And he must be less foggy on the specifics of what that agenda is. Though on Wednesday night he asked Congress to ''take another look'' at the health care bill, even now it's unclear what he believes that bill's bedrock provisions should be. He also said he wouldn't sign any financial regulatory bill that ''does not meet the test of real reform,'' yet tentatively praised a House bill compromised by a banking lobby that is in bed with Democrats and Republicans alike. The Senate, of course, has yet to produce any financial reform bill.
 Americans like Obama far more than they like any Congressional leader. They might even like more of his policies if he spelled them out. But none of that matters if no Democrat fears him enough to do any of his bidding and no Republican believes there's any price to be paid for always saying no. 
 A year in, we have learned that all the conciliatory rhetoric won't cut it. But a president with a big megaphone and large legislative majorities has more powerful strings to pull, no matter what happened in one special election in Massachusetts. If he can't get a working government, at least he can shake things up in November.
 Just look at how a sharp public slap provoked Justice Alito, threw a spotlight on the court's dubious jurisprudence and sparked an embarrassing over-the-top hissy fit on the right. A do-nothing Congress, at a time when ever more Americans are losing their jobs and homes, is an even riper target than the Supreme Court -- and far more politically vulnerable. Without strong medicine from Obama, we can be certain of the same result: a heedless Congress will keep doing nothing. If he steps it up, there's at least a shot that his presidency, and maybe even the country, will be pulled back from the brink. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); HISTORY (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SAMUEL ALITO (88%); BILL CLINTON (58%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



914 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Tyranny of the Majorities

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai writes about national politics for the magazine.

 BODY:
If we learned anything about Barack Obama during the now-distant campaign of 2008, it was that he was a man who valued stoicism and self-possession in himself and others. And so it was significant, in an understated way, to hear Obama's press secretary describe him, on the day of the election in Massachusetts to fill Ted Kennedy's former Senate seat, as ''surprised and frustrated'' by the collapse of the Democratic candidate, Martha Coakley, and then to hear Obama's closest aides heaping scorn on her campaign. You could see how this latest defeat might have registered on Obama like a horse hoof to the abdomen, shaking him from his prized equanimity and plunging his White House into a spate of uncharacteristic self-doubt. On a personal level, Obama had to feel that he had somehow failed one of his mentors, allowing not only Kennedy's seat to slip away but quite possibly his dream of national health care too. Politically, the Massachusetts election seems likely to presage worse days ahead, suggesting, as an unending parade of commentators have now pointed out, that Obama and his governing party could face a calamitous November. 
 Obama should take heart, however, in the possibility that the pundits have this one only half-right. It's probably true that if the midterm elections were held this week, Democrats would take enough casualties to make the Capitol look like the Alamo. But even a crushing election season wouldn't necessarily marginalize Obama halfway through his term. For one thing, with an approval rating that runs 20 points or more above Congressional leaders, Obama is his own distinct brand; just because voters may be inclined to repudiate Congressional Democrats doesn't necessarily mean they are primed to reject his presidency. What's more, watching his party take a pounding is not the worst thing that could befall Obama politically. In fact, you could argue that rather than shudder at the thought of a more balanced Congress, Obama and his aides should embrace it. 
 Sure, all things being equal, a president would rather have his allies firmly in control than not. But recent presidents have had more success when forced to work with slim majorities in Congress, or even none at all. Ronald Reagan teamed with influential Democratic senators and a Democrat-controlled House to overhaul the tax code. Richard Nixon and a Democratic Congress enacted historic protections for the environment. Lyndon Johnson may have enjoyed sizable majorities in the sense of party affiliation but not in terms of ideology: a large contingent in his own party opposed civil rights and new social programs. He succeeded only by building a coalition that enlisted a lot of Northern moderate Republicans. 
 By contrast, Jimmy Carter, during his lone term, and George W. Bush, after his re-election in 2004 but before the Democratic takeover of 2006, saw signature proposals crushed by their own parties' formidable majorities. Bill Clinton was headed pretty much in the same direction before voters showed his fellow Democrats the door in 1994 -- a development that, in retrospect, revived his presidency. In the ensuing years, Clinton brokered deals to remake welfare and balance the budget, goals to which he had long been committed but that stood little chance while his own party was in charge. Americans like their presidents most when they seem like grown-ups, the kind of people who can forge consensus from cacophony. We tend to get behind an executive who acts as a bulwark against ideological extremism or who has to persuade some opponents to help enact an agenda rather than one who seems, fairly or not, to be trying to ram it through.
 This is, of course, exactly the kind of statesmanlike president Obama envisioned becoming. As a candidate he indicted the unshakable orthodoxies of both parties and the ossified culture of Washington. But the breadth of the majorities Obama inherited has in some ways made it harder, rather than easier, for him to impose his vision on the capital. For one thing, the expectations for his presidency have been unreasonably high from the moment he took office, meaning that the mundane realities of governance could only disappoint an anxious country. When Al Franken became the 60th Democratic vote, for instance, pundits declared that Obama now had the power to pass any economic or health care plan he wanted -- despite the fact that holding 60 senators together on any one vote is like trying to organize the Gosselin family photo. Instead, Obama spent most of his first year trying to mollify the various ideological constituencies in his own party and to referee squabbles between leadership in the two chambers, while his pledge to reform ''business as usual'' went largely unfulfilled. 
 Sullen Republicans, meanwhile, answering to a narrower slice of the electorate, have seen little reason to do anything other than reflexively attack the Democratic agenda at every turn. Liberal skeptics might argue that Republicans would shun Obama no matter how many seats they controlled, but the laws of political self-interest suggest otherwise; the more districts and states you represent, the more varied your constituencies and the more self-interest compels you to compromise. (The newly elected Scott Brown, for example, may sound like Rush Limbaugh now, but when the furor of the moment subsides and the polls on issues start rolling in from Massachusetts, he may find the Tea Party thing harder to sustain.) A dialogue between Obama and a more powerful Republican minority on health care, for instance, might yield a bill that included deeper cost cuts and some kind of meaningful malpractice reform. And if a bill like that received more support from independent voters, moderate Republicans would be reluctant to oppose it.
 Chastened by the defeat in Massachusetts, Obama now has the better part of a year to stabilize his party's standing. Perhaps that means he will, at long last, take his case directly to the voters rather than focusing all his energy on Capitol Hill, obsessing over every parliamentary maneuver and wavering member of Congress. The other bit of good news for the president, though, is that should the voters reject his argument and shear his Democratic majorities in November, at least he'll be handed a valuable strategic foil in 2012. After all, running against the small-minded obstructionist forces in Congress has proved to be the most effective re-election pitch for a long line of beleaguered presidents, from Harry Truman to Bill Clinton. Losing his advantage in Congress might yet reveal to the president new paths toward the kind of less ideological, more enlightened governance he was supposed to represent. And if not, at least he'll have someone to blame. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE) GRAPHIC: 25% of survey respondents APPROVE of the job CONGRESS is doing. (SOURCE (TOP LEFT): GALLUP, DECEMBER 2009
MARGIN OF ERROR IS PLUS OR MINUS FOUR PERCENTAGE POINTS.)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY HUMAN EMPIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAX LAW (63%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); TAX REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TED KENNEDY (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); MARTHA COAKLEY (56%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



915 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: What Happened To Regulatory Reform?

BYLINE: By DEVIN LEONARD

 BODY:
NEARLY two years ago, as a presidential candidate, Barack Obama gave a stirring speech at Cooper Union in New York about the need to reform the country's financial system. Joseph E. Stiglitz, the Nobel-winning economist, recalls it fondly in his powerful new book, ''Freefall: America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy'' (Norton, $27.95).
 But Mr. Stiglitz laments that the president failed to make good on such soaring rhetoric. He argues that Mr. Obama has continued for the most part to pursue the failed policies of George W. Bush. This, in the economist's view, has benefited Wall Street but has done little for ordinary citizens. 
 The results speak for themselves, Mr. Stiglitz says. He worries that ''the best that can be said for the economy was that by the fall of 2009 it seems to be at the end of a freefall, a decline without an end in sight. But the end of freefall is not the same as a return to normalcy.'' 
 That raises a question: How is it that Mr. Obama the candidate understood the need for economic reform while Mr. Obama the president became a defender of the status quo in many unexpected ways? 
 Mr. Stiglitz, a former chief economist at the World Bank who spent time in the White House as an adviser to President Bill Clinton, thinks he knows the answer. He writes that Mr. Obama surrounded himself with an economic team whose members -- Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary; and Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the National Economic Council -- have been reluctant to revamp the financial system. 
 Mr. Stiglitz says that these are some of the same people whose policies brought us the economic collapse of 2008. That is sure to rankle their supporters, but Mr. Stiglitz, a fine writer, makes a persuasive case.
 He says that after Mr. Bernanke replaced Alan Greenspan in 2006, he had a chance to prick the credit bubble. Instead, as we all know, Mr. Bernanke continued the low-interest-rate policies of his predecessor. The results haven't been pretty.
 Mr. Stiglitz writes that Mr. Geithner didn't rein in the financial industry's risky practices in his previous job, as chairman of the New York Fed. Yes, Mr. Geithner gave speeches warning of potential dangers, but he ''was meant to be a regulator, not a preacher,'' Mr. Stiglitz says.
 The author is especially critical of Mr. Summers, his former colleague in the Clinton White House, who helped thwart an attempt to regulate derivatives in the waning days of Mr. Clinton's second term. The same financial instruments, of course, played a devastating role in the recent crisis.
 Perhaps it's not surprising, then, that the Obama team didn't take bold action on the economy right away, Mr. Stiglitz says. Instead, he writes, it doled out more bailout cash to banks and floated bad ideas. These included the Public Private Partnership Investment Program, which the author complains would have enabled ''certain members of the Wall Street club'' to buy toxic mortgages from ailing banks at inflated prices. Who would be burned if these deals went bad? The taxpayer, of course.
 This was such a sweet deal that private investors shied away from it: ''They worried that if they made too much money, the bureaucrats and the public wouldn't let them get away with it and would find some way of recouping the profits,'' Mr. Stiglitz says.
 In his opinion, the White House tried to ''muddle through'' the crisis in the hope that the markets would improve and the public would eventually start spending again.
 Mr. Stiglitz argues that this was fine with Wall Street and that bankers were also stalling for time. ''The strategy of players in the financial markets was clear: let the advocates for real change in the banking sector talk and talk; the crisis will be over before an agreement is reached -- and with the end of the crisis, momentum for reform will disappear,'' he says.
 Delays by the administration, Mr. Stiglitz believes, will almost certainly prolong the recession. But he says that it's not too late to fix the financial system. He offers a long list of proposals to tame the banking sector and to foster a more humanistic style of capitalism in the United States and abroad. 
 Mr. Stiglitz argues that so-called too-big-to-fail banks like Citigroup are exactly that: too big. He says that they should be broken up, and that the government should regulate derivatives and discourage mortgage securitization. 
 What's more, he says, Americans need to get over the idea that higher taxes and more government involvement in the economy are a recipe for disaster. He points to Sweden as an example of a country that has a thriving economy but still provides its citizens with extensive social services. 
 THESE may all be worthy ideas. But at times, Mr. Stiglitz's call for a new economic order seems a bit fanciful. Can you imagine President Obama going before the American people and telling them they need to emulate Sweden? Imagine the fun Glenn Beck would have with that.
 The irony is that just as ''Freefall'' appeared on bookstore shelves, the Barack Obama who spoke so eloquently about the need for reform at Cooper Union reappeared. Earlier this month, he proposed a tax on banks to recover bailout funds from banks and new regulations forbidding them from running internal hedge funds with their depositors' money. And in his State of the Union address last week, he followed this up with proposals to help people whose lives have been upended by the crisis.
 It seems that the president has decided he can't afford to protect the status quo. Mr. Stiglitz is unlikely to have all his wishes granted, but it appears that the White House agrees with one of his arguments. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (78%); BEN BERNANKE (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



916 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: One Year Down, a Presidency Yet to Go: Ford's Four Seconds

BYLINE: By RONALD NESSEN

 BODY:
IN his first State of the Union speech, on Jan. 15, 1975, President Gerald R. Ford told Congress and the American people in his plain-spoken manner: ''I must say to you that the State of the Union is not good.'' And then he listed the particulars: The economy was suffering from stagflation -- simultaneous high inflation and economic recession. Unemployment was rising toward 8 percent. There was an energy shortage and high oil prices because of an embargo on petroleum shipments by Arab nations. The federal budget deficit was approaching $50 billion and the national debt $500 billion -- big money in those days. As we prepared the speech -- the first draft wasn't even completed until around 3:30 a.m. on the day of the address -- Ford asked Roy Ash, director of the Office of Management and Budget, if he had any good economic news to include. Ash replied, ''That'll take about four seconds.'' 
 Nonetheless, Ford offered a number of specific proposals in his speech, some of which may sound familiar to those who listened to President Obama's address on Wednesday: capping the federal budget at $300 billion; cutting taxes by giving individuals a rebate of up to $1,000 and by giving industries a $4 billion reward for creating new jobs; imposing new taxes on petroleum products to discourage use and offering new incentives to encourage more domestic production as well as development of nuclear and solar energy. 
 Ford ended his State of the Union speech by declaring, ''In partnership with the American people, we will achieve these objectives.'' However, Ford's ability to achieve the goals -- as well as his relationship with Congress, the press corps and the American people -- had been seriously undermined by the pardon of his disgraced predecessor, Richard Nixon, four months earlier. When Nixon resigned, Ford seemed to be a breath of fresh air after the miasma of Watergate -- he was a regular guy who could laugh at his own foibles, down-to-earth, self-confident, liked by both Democrats and Republicans in Congress. 
 All that hope and good will were blown away by the pardon, and by subsequent rumors (never substantiated) of some kind of deal between Ford and Nixon. It was in that atmosphere of anger and disillusionment that Ford delivered his first State of the Union speech. Only decades later was Ford's presidency -- and the pardon -- reappraised and his reputation restored. -- RONALD NESSEN, press secretary for President Gerald Ford

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); RECESSION (76%); FUEL TAX (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); TAX RELIEF (70%); SALES REBATES (56%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010



917 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: China Leading Race to Make Clean Energy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TIANJIN, China 

 BODY:
China vaulted past competitors in Denmark, Germany, Spain and the United States last year to become the world's largest maker of wind turbines, and is poised to expand even further this year.
 China has also leapfrogged the West in the last two years to emerge as the world's largest manufacturer of solar panels. And the country is pushing equally hard to build nuclear reactors and the most efficient types of coal power plants.
 These efforts to dominate renewable energy technologies raise the prospect that the West may someday trade its dependence on oil from the Mideast for a reliance on solar panels, wind turbines and other gear manufactured in China.
 ''Most of the energy equipment will carry a brass plate, 'Made in China,' '' said K. K. Chan, the chief executive of Nature Elements Capital, a private equity fund in Beijing that focuses on renewable energy. 
 President Obama, in his State of the Union speech last week, sounded an alarm that the United States was falling behind other countries, especially China, on energy. ''I do not accept a future where the jobs and industries of tomorrow take root beyond our borders -- and I know you don't either,'' he told Congress.
 The United States and other countries are offering incentives to develop their own renewable energy industries, and Mr. Obama called for redoubling American efforts. Yet many Western and Chinese executives expect China to prevail in the energy-technology race.
 Multinational corporations are responding to the rapid growth of China's market by building big, state-of-the-art factories in China. Vestas of Denmark has just erected the world's biggest wind turbine manufacturing complex here in northeastern China, and transferred the technology to build the latest electronic controls and generators.
 ''You have to move fast with the market,'' said Jens Tommerup, the president of Vestas China. ''Nobody has ever seen such fast development in a wind market.''
 Renewable energy industries here are adding jobs rapidly, reaching 1.12 million in 2008 and climbing by 100,000 a year, according to the government-backed Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association. 
 Yet renewable energy may be doing more for China's economy than for the environment. Total power generation in China is on track to pass the United States in 2012 -- and most of the added capacity will still be from coal.
 China intends for wind, solar and biomass energy to represent 8 percent of its electricity generation capacity by 2020. That compares with less than 4 percent now in China and the United States. Coal will still represent two-thirds of China's capacity in 2020, and nuclear and hydropower most of the rest.
 As China seeks to dominate energy-equipment exports, it has the advantage of being the world's largest market for power equipment. The government spends heavily to upgrade the electricity grid, committing $45 billion in 2009 alone. State-owned banks provide generous financing. 
 China's top leaders are intensely focused on energy policy: on Wednesday, the government announced the creation of a National Energy Commission composed of cabinet ministers as a ''superministry'' led by Prime Minister Wen Jiabao himself. 
 Regulators have set mandates for power generation companies to use more renewable energy. Generous subsidies for consumers to install their own solar panels or solar water heaters have produced flurries of activity on rooftops across China.
 China's biggest advantage may be its domestic demand for electricity, rising 15 percent a year. To meet demand in the coming decade, according to statistics from the International Energy Agency, China will need to add nearly nine times as much electricity generation capacity as the United States will.
 So while Americans are used to thinking of themselves as having the world's largest market in many industries, China's market for power equipment dwarfs that of the United States, even though the American market is more mature. That means Chinese producers enjoy enormous efficiencies from large-scale production.
 In the United States, power companies frequently face a choice between buying renewable energy equipment or continuing to operate fossil-fuel-fired power plants that have already been built and paid for. In China, power companies have to buy lots of new equipment anyway, and alternative energy, particularly wind and nuclear, is increasingly priced competitively.
 Interest rates as low as 2 percent for bank loans -- the result of a savings rate of 40 percent and a government policy of steering loans to renewable energy -- have also made a big difference.
 As in many other industries, China's low labor costs are an advantage in energy. Although Chinese wages have risen sharply in the last five years, Vestas still pays assembly line workers here only $4,100 a year.
 China's commitment to renewable energy is expensive. Although costs are falling steeply through mass production, wind energy is still 20 to 40 percent more expensive than coal-fired power. Solar power is still at least twice as expensive as coal.
 The Chinese government charges a renewable energy fee to all electricity users. The fee increases residential electricity bills by 0.25 percent to 0.4 percent. For industrial users of electricity, the fee doubled in November to roughly 0.8 percent of the electricity bill. 
 The fee revenue goes to companies that operate the electricity grid, to make up the cost difference between renewable energy and coal-fired power.
 Renewable energy fees are not yet high enough to affect China's competitiveness even in energy-intensive industries, said the chairman of a Chinese industrial company, who asked not to be identified because of the political sensitivity of electricity rates in China.
 Grid operators are unhappy. They are reimbursed for the extra cost of buying renewable energy instead of coal-fired power, but not for the formidable cost of building power lines to wind turbines and other renewable energy producers, many of them in remote, windswept areas. Transmission losses are high for sending power over long distances to cities, and nearly a third of China's wind turbines are not yet connected to the national grid.
 Most of these turbines were built only in the last year, however, and grid construction has not caught up. Under legislation passed by the Chinese legislature on Dec. 26, a grid operator that does not connect a renewable energy operation to the grid must pay that operation twice the value of the electricity that cannot be distributed.
 With prices tumbling, China's wind and solar industries are increasingly looking to sell equipment abroad -- and facing complaints by Western companies that they have unfair advantages. When a Chinese company reached a deal in November to supply turbines for a big wind farm in Texas, there were calls in Congress to halt federal spending on imported equipment.
 ''Every country, including the United States and in Europe, wants a low cost of renewable energy,'' said Ma Lingjuan, deputy managing director of China's renewable energy association. ''Now China has reached that level, but it gets criticized by the rest of the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As China takes the lead on wind turbines, above, and solar panels, President Obama is calling for American industry to step up. (A1)
 Wind turbine parts at a factory in Tianjin. Shifting to sustainable energy could leave the West dependent on China, much as it now depends on the Middle East. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND POWER PLANTS (91%); TURBINE MFG (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); BIOMASS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (76%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



918 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DAVOS 2010; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Leaders in Davos Admit Drop in Trust and Uncertainty Ahead

BYLINE: By ALISON SMALE; Jack Ewing and Katrin Bennhold contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland 

 BODY:
If there was one takeaway from the annual gathering of business and political leaders in Davos this year, it was this: trust in governments, corporations and above all banks has become as elusive as sure footing on the icy streets of this Alpine resort.
 There was general relief that the financial system had been pulled back from the abyss glimpsed by many speakers at Davos a year ago. As the chairman of the British bank HSBC, Stephen K. Green, put it, ''We're in a better place than we were then'' although ''there has been a huge breakdown in trust.'' 
 Over the first four days of mostly closed-door meetings at the World Economic Forum, bankers, central bankers and politicians reached no consensus on the best way forward to regulate markets or banks. Like many bankers, Mr. Green acknowledged ''political initiatives on both sides of the Atlantic,'' but was not ready to cede the terrain to politicians. ''It is very important,'' he said, ''that we don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.''
 Members of the financial services industry seemed ruefully aware of how far they had sunk in public regard. Commenting on whether private equity companies would support an Obama administration proposal on bank regulation, David M. Rubenstein, managing director of the buyout firm Carlyle Group, quipped, ''Our position is unsure because we're afraid if we come out in favor, it won't pass.''
 Perhaps the billionaire investor and philanthropist George Soros summed up the ambivalence most succinctly. ''You want to keep regulation to a minimum,'' he said, ''because it is worse than markets. But you can't do without it.''
 And so, from President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who urged creation of a new international monetary system and even a new reserve currency to replace the dollar, to angry representatives from trade unions, to the white businessmen in suits who still dominate this snow-kissed gathering, the one certainty seemed to be continued uncertainty.
 Many influential participants said that the financial crisis, rescue and search for solutions that the world had experienced in the last three years were without precedent. That complicates the search for solutions -- how do we define when we are out of the mess? -- and, in the West, increases pressure on politicians like President Obama to ease the widespread pain.
 Mr. Obama's recent blasts at Wall Street, coupled with a State of the Union address focused on Main Street and jobs, provided a backdrop to the discussions here. The only senior administration official in attendance, Mr. Obama's chief economic adviser, Lawrence H. Summers, evoked one reason for Mr. Obama's priorities before a packed audience on Saturday, noting that, in the United States, one in five men aged 25 to 54 is now jobless. Although the United States economy grew strongly in the last quarter of 2009, persistent unemployment has created a situation he described as ''a statistical recovery and a human recession.'' 
 It is ''reasonable'' to expect that to decline to one in seven or eight as the economy recovers, he said. But it is far from the 95 percent employment of American men that age in the mid-1960s.
 Contrast that with the buoyant presentation, in the same discussion, by Zhu Min, deputy governor of the People's Bank of China. ''China had a good year,'' Mr. Zhu opened, before rattling off statistics that boggle even economists' minds: for instance, a 200-million ton overcapacity in steel production, roughly equal to the 198 million tons produced in the 27-nation European Union in 2008.
 The Chinese delegation this year, the biggest in 40 years of the Davos gathering, was led by Li Keqiang, the vice premier widely tipped to be the next prime minister. Their appearance exuded much more confidence than even two years ago, a reflection of what many participants here said was a clear shift of power east, particularly to China.
 The effect of that shift, and whether it will lead to cooperation or confrontation, concerns policy makers in the West, particularly the United States. China suggested that trust might be the answer here, too.
 ''Between Chinese people and American and Western people, we lack mutual understanding,'' said Cheng Siwei, a former Chinese politician and a co-chairman of the International Finance Forum, a Beijing-based think tank. The only way to ''keep this relationship stable,'' he said, is ''to build mutual trust.''
 But as power has shifted toward China and South Asia, the Europeans, Americans and Japanese have watched their economies decline or stall sharply. Rebuilding mutual trust will be ever more difficult amid fears that such pain will continue and that the current generation entering the work force is likely to be less prosperous than its parents.
 Much of the world is concerned about the shift, and unsure what to expect. ''In the transition phase from a superpower-dominated world to a multipolar world you will see a lot of uncertainty and you will see a lot of volatility,'' said Josef Ackermann, chairman of Deutsche Bank.
 Part of the difficulty, it emerged from several discussions here, is that despite globalization and growing interconnectedness, finding solutions has fallen largely to individual nations, companies and banks.
 Banding together in the Group of 20 that has emerged to take the place of the Group of 7 as the body to control the direction of the world economy, politicians and economists are supposed to produce policy suggestions by June, ahead of the Group of 20's meeting in Seoul, South Korea, in November, its first meeting in Asia.
 Whether that group, far from the jobless workers in the United States and Europe, can ease their pain is unclear. But, Mr. Ackermann said, ''We all know something has to happen quickly to restore confidence in the system.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Panelists at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, included Zhu Min of the People's Bank of China, on the big screen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CURRENCIES (66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (65%); LABOR UNIONS (61%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE SOROS (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (53%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%) SWITZERLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



919 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Obama Budget to Add to Programs, While Freezing Much Domestic Spending

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama will send a $3.8 trillion budget to Congress on Monday for the coming fiscal year that would increase financing for education and for civilian research programs by more than 6 percent and provide $25 billion for cash-starved states, even as he seeks to freeze much domestic spending for the rest of his term.
 The budget for the 2011 fiscal year, which begins in October, will identify the winners and losers behind Mr. Obama's proposal for a three-year freeze of a portion of the budget. Many programs at the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation and the Energy Department are in line for increases, along with the Census Bureau.
 Among the losers would be some public works projects of the Army Corps of Engineers, two historic preservation programs and NASA's mission to return to the Moon, which would be ended as the administration seeks to reorient the space program to use private companies for launchings. Mr. Obama is recycling some proposals from last year, including one to end redundant payments for land restoration at abandoned coal mines; Western lawmakers blocked it in 2009. Mr. Obama will propose a total of $20 billion in such savings for the coming fiscal year. 
 Exempted from the cuts, however, are national security, veterans programs, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- the most expensive and fastest-growing areas of the budget. 
 By filling in the details behind the freeze, the administration hopes to show critics that it used a scalpel rather than an ax to keep spending for the targeted domestic agencies to $447 billion through 2013.
 The three-year freeze would save $250 billion over the coming decade, assuming the overall spending on the domestic programs is permitted to rise no more than the inflation rate for the remainder of the decade -- an austerity that neither party has ever achieved in Washington. Even so, the $250 billion in savings would be less than 3 percent of the total deficits projected through 2020. 
 Criticism of the spending plan has ranged from arguments among liberals in Mr. Obama's party and some economists that he should not be cutting spending when the economy needs hundreds of billions of dollars more in stimulus money, to complaints from Republicans that the savings are too paltry when annual trillion-dollar deficits are the largest since World War II.
 The debate reflects the conflicting imperatives underlying the administration's fiscal policies -- between the demands to help a struggling economy create jobs and the need for long-term efforts to address the huge buildup of debt that threatens the nation's future prosperity. 
 ''There is a huge tension'' between the goals, said Robert D. Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
 Mr. Obama addressed the dueling challenges in his weekly radio and Internet address Saturday.
 ''As we work to create jobs,'' he said, ''it is critical that we rein in the budget deficits we've been accumulating for far too long -- deficits that won't just burden our children and grandchildren, but could damage our markets, drive up our interest rates and jeopardize our recovery right now.''
 For the current fiscal year, the administration is working with Congressional Democrats for up to $150 billion more -- on top of roughly $1 trillion in stimulus measures to date -- to spur job creation through more business tax cuts and money for construction projects and provide relief for the long-term unemployed. 
 At the same time, to hold down annual deficits, the president has proposed the freeze as well as a pay-as-you-go law to require offsetting savings for new spending and tax cuts. He is also calling for new revenue sources, like a proposed tax on big banks to recover any losses from the financial bailout program, and proposing some old ones that Congress has not accepted, including selling emission permits to businesses to reduce pollution.
 And for the long term, Mr. Obama will soon issue an executive order for a bipartisan commission to propose a debt reduction plan by December. Democratic leaders have committed in writing that Congress will vote on the panel's package.
 As the administration was completing its budget plans in December, Mr. Obama said at a White House economic forum that ''we've got about as difficult an economic play as is possible'' in adding to the current deficit while simultaneously planning to slash future shortfalls. He compared it to pressing the accelerator while being poised to hit the brakes.
 Because deficits would be even worse if the economy relapsed, he said then, ''the single most important thing we could do right now for deficit reduction is to spark strong economic growth'' so that people have jobs, businesses make profits and the government collects more taxes.
 But he acknowledged, as his support in the polls continued to slip, ''We're going to have to do a better job of educating the public on that.''
 The worse-than-expected recession, which has led to even smaller tax collections and higher stimulus spending than planned, has doomed Mr. Obama's promise a year ago to reduce annual deficits by the end of his term to a size equal to 3 percent of the gross domestic product, a level most economists consider sustainable. The projected $1.3 trillion deficit for this year is more than 9 percent of the gross domestic product.
 Mr. Obama's budget director, Peter R. Orszag, told business leaders in November that he was now dedicated to getting the deficit to 3 percent by the 2015 fiscal year. But he has also told people that success is contingent on a bipartisan debt commission forcing Congress to increase revenues and reduce future spending on entitlement program benefits -- an outcome that is far from certain at this point, given Republican leaders' resistance to even participating in a commission.
 The president's budget also assumes approval of his ambitious plan, now stalled in Congress, to remake the nation's health care system. That would mean significant reductions in the growth of Medicare spending. The White House and Congressional Budget Office agree that the health bill would reduce projected deficits in the long term. But the reductions are relatively small compared with the total deficits projected over the coming decade.
 Mr. Obama's 2011 budget would provide more for the Pentagon's Special Operations forces, the Army's Black Hawk and Chinook helicopters, and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. 
 Mr. Obama and Congressional Democratic leaders have said they will extend most of the Bush-era tax cuts scheduled to expire on Dec. 31. The president wants Congress to let the tax cuts lapse for high-income people, so that couples making more than $250,000 would see their taxes rise. But some centrist Democrats are urging Mr. Obama to spare wealthy taxpayers as well, to avoid raising their taxes before the economy is fully recovered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HISTORY (77%); ARMIES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); MEDICAID (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); VETERANS (69%); LIBERALISM (65%); INFLATION (62%); CENSUS (56%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); COAL MINING (52%); JOB CREATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (57%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



920 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Uncle Sam Wants You ...to Have a Job

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
President Obama has a jobs problem. Fifteen million Americans want work. Few companies want to hire. The burden shifts to the government. What can it do?
 However much Mr. Obama focuses on jobs, he has only a few imperfect tools for generating them (and needs the cooperation of Congress to use them). He can add directly to the federal payroll, hiring permanent or contract workers. He can direct money to states and local governments so that they can hire, or at least avoid layoffs. He can direct money to projects that need workers. He can give tax credits to businesses that hire now.
 Mr. Obama's latest tool of choice, he made clear in his State of the Union address on Wednesday, is the prod to the private sector. Spurred by tax breaks, private employers will do the hiring, he said. If he's wrong, then government might have to add to the federal payroll to bring down the unemployment rate -- a proven technique but a no-no politically since the 1980s, when big government became an enduring target. 
 ''We have to help stoke the private-sector engine of job growth,'' said Jared Bernstein, chief economist in the vice president's office, speaking for the administration. ''Government cannot by itself create the employment necessary to fully offset the millions of jobs lost. What we can do is help to create the conditions fertile for robust hiring by the private sector.''
 Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke similarly at the start of his presidency, although by his second year -- with many Americans clamoring for more government, not less -- he had added four million people to the federal payroll, many of them assigned to highway and other infrastructure work. An equivalent percentage of the population today would be 12 million people.
 That was the start of a long climb. The cold war, the space race, social welfare programs, foreign service and periodic recessions all contributed to a growing federal payroll, one that peaked at more than 2.3 million employees when Bill Clinton took office in 1992 (and included more than a half-million added between 1970 and 1988, years dominated by Republican administrations).
 But that rising demand for federal employment, with its steady wages, comfortable benefits and job security, ran up against a political obstacle. Taking his cue from conservatives, President Clinton embraced the view that big government was wasteful and inefficient, defining big government mainly as a bloated federal payroll. By the time he left office, federal employment had fallen by nearly 20 percent.
 The big-government issue has not dissipated; today it hangs over Mr. Obama, inhibiting his use of the federal payroll option, despite rising demand for federal jobs (applications are up 62 percent since last year). ''The Republicans, the conservatives, the Tea Party, they would just carve him up,'' said Paul C. Light, a professor of public service at New York University.
 Still, in the two years since the recession began, George W. Bush and Barack Obama each added 100,000 federal employees, mainly to handle work associated with the increased demand for unemployment insurance and other services triggered by the recession. That brought the payroll to 2.1 million, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 That figure does not include postal workers. Nor does it include 7.6 million federal contract workers. ''The Bush administration was dead set on dismantling federal agencies and they could only do it by shifting work to contractors,'' said John Gage, president of the American Federation of Government Employees.
 Blackwater's security guards in Iraq are the most visible members of this off-the-regular-books work force, which has mushroomed over the past decade, according to various estimates. Mr. Obama has said he would counter the trend by shifting to federal employees at least some of the work that contractors now do for much less pay, no benefits and no job security. Until he does, however, the contract workers are essentially a modern-day version of the millions who drew wages from Mr. Roosevelt's Works Progress Administration and Civilian Conservation Corp, staying off the unemployment rolls.
 Mr. Obama has some other options. He could channel money to state and municipal governments with the proviso that it be used to subsidize the wages and benefits of police officers, teachers, sewer workers, engineers and others who have been furloughed or soon will be. The stimulus package already directs some money for this purpose, but the administration has no plans to expand the stimulus beyond the $787 billion originally allotted. In any case, the goal of the stimulus is mainly private-sector employment -- relying on contractors to hire people to carry out the infrastructure repairs and other stimulus-funded projects.
 That assumes the contractors need to add employees. So far, up to two million jobs have been ''created or saved,'' the administration says. That number is likely to rise as the stimulus runs through the rest of this year. Still, rather than expand the stimulus, the president on Wednesday turned to direct incentives as a less expensive tactic, suggesting that in his view it would be just as effective.
 The further assumption is that a number of employers are planning to add workers in 2011 and 2012 to accommodate an expanding economy, and the Obama tax incentive -- featuring a $5,000 credit for each employee hired, along with other givebacks -- will prompt them to hire now instead of later. (The Gross Domestic Product surged in the fourth quarter, at a 5.7 percent annual rate, the government announced Friday, although few forecasters expected that pace to carry over into the new year.)
 ''Someone gives you $5,000 to $10,000, and if you are not even thinking of expanding, then you won't do it,'' said Timothy J. Bartik, a labor economist at the Upjohn Institute who has studied employer responsiveness to tax incentives and who favors the Obama proposal. ''But if you were thinking about expanding in 2011 or 2012 -- and there are enough who may be thinking this way -- then the tax break would prompt you to act now.''
 Only once before, in 1977, has Washington used a tax credit to jump-start hiring. The nation was coming out of the mid-1970s recession, hiring was still sluggish, and the tax incentive soon created 700,000 jobs, according to some studies. Once the incentive expired, the surge in hiring disappeared.
 ''This is arguably about the optimal time to do something like this,'' Mr. Bartik said, estimating that the Obama plan, if enacted quickly, would add a million jobs by early summer. ''We seem to be heading for an expansion, but we are not quite there yet. This is one way to jump-start that expansion.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (74%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



921 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR JOSEPH STIGLITZ; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: The Outsider

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON; INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED

 BODY:
As you make the rounds of television talk shows to promote your new book, ''Freefall: America, Free Markets and the Sinking of the World Economy,'' many of us are wondering why you aren't talking to the members of the Obama administration instead. Were you offered a job by the president? No. There was no natural position for me within the usual structure of government. 
 Why not? You're a Nobel laureate in economics, a professor at Columbia and a leading critic of the deregulation that you say allowed the banks to wreck the economy. At the time Obama appointed his economics team, he was focused on getting a team that he thought would have the confidence of the financial markets, a team that the bankers liked. 
 You refer to his team in your book as people ''involved in the mistakes of the past'' -- like Larry Summers and Ben Bernanke, the head of the Federal Reserve. As an example, back in the spring of 2008, people like Bernanke were saying we're over the worst. Regulators didn't want to admit that they had made really bad regulatory decisions. They didn't want to admit that they had allowed a housing bubble to grow. 
 But in the past few weeks, Obama has been demonstrating a new get-tough stance with the banks. He wants to tax the overly big ones and limit their ability to do reckless deals. Over the last year, there has been a drumbeat that has increased as Congress has failed to enact adequate regulations. 
 What do you think of the return of Paul Volcker, the adviser to the president who is pushing the latest banking restrictions and is known as a lonely critic of deregulation? I don't view him as lonely, because he has a friend in me. The basic thing about somebody like Paul is he's not looking for another career. He tells things as they are. He is the one who said that if banks are too big to fail, then they're too big to be managed, they're too complex, there is no person who can really manage anything of that complexity.
 Volcker's views seem to oppose those of Larry Summers, who bragged about his feats of deregulation during his tenure in the Clinton administration. I don't know whether Summers has repudiated those views -- there has clearly not been any public statement from him saying, ''I was wrong.'' I don't know whether he has changed, or whether there was a nice little battle. Eventually I will hear. 
 You grew up in Gary, Ind.? Paul Samuelson was from Gary, Ind., too. Little factoid. 
 So was Michael Jackson, but he didn't win a Nobel in economics. What did your dad do for a living? He was an insurance agent. He worked until he was 94, when he moved to Atlanta, where my sister was living. He wanted a job, but it is hard to get a job at 94. He worried that there was age discrimination.
 Did your parents push you to succeed in worldly ways? Yes, I think so. But they never let success go to one's head. If I came home with a grade of A, my father would say, ''There must have been a lot of dummies in that class.''
 It sounds as if you inherited your father's talent for criticism. I hope not. It wasn't criticism. It was a joke. With my kids, I'm a little sappier than my father may have been.
 In your book, you didn't include Paul Krugman in your list of economists who foresaw the crash. I should have, probably. It's one of these things where you write different drafts, and somehow it got deleted.
 By the way, when I tried you on your cellphone, a voice said, ''This is the number for Joseph Stiglitz, but he doesn't check his messages.'' I just never figured out that part of the cellphone. 
 But what if President Obama is calling to offer you a job? He knows how to e-mail me.
 Do you care if you're in Washington? When you're in government, you have a big impact in Washington, but Washington may not be doing very much. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID S. HOLLOWAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (51%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (77%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (65%) INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



922 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PRESCRIPTIONS MAKING SENSE OF THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Pro or Con, Lobbying Thrived

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
President Obama has blamed many factors for the stalling of his health care overhaul, from the recent special election in Massachusetts that deprived Democrats of their supermajority in the Senate to his own failure to better explain the legislation to the American people.
 He has also prominently blamed lobbyists, taking them to task in his State of the Union address last week as he cited ''special interests and armies of lobbyists and partisan politics.'' 
 Clearly, lobbying has been a major factor in the fate of the health care overhaul, which suddenly slid from the top of the president's domestic agenda last year to an also-ran in a new year in which he wants to focus on producing jobs. Whether anything will pass is now in doubt.
 But what the president did not mention in his address was that many of those lobbyists actually worked to support his health care overhaul, not oppose it. 
 Health care and insurance lobbyists spent more than $648 million in 2009, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, which tracks the influence of money on elections and policy. That figure is not final; the center has not been able to process about 20 percent of the year-end lobbying reports.
 But even the incomplete tally shows that the money spent last year on health care dwarfs the amount spent on any other single issue in a single year. ''It's the most money ever spent by a business sector for federal lobbying,'' said Dave Levinthal, a spokesman for the center.
 The lobbying reports do not break down whether an interest group works for or against an issue. But Mr. Obama, who wants an overhaul to provide insurance to almost everyone and curtail abuses by the health insurance industry, had some powerful interests on his side.
 The 800-pound gorilla in favor of an overhaul was the pharmaceutical industry, which struck a deal with the White House that would protect its profits for years to come.
 Drug companies spent more than $245 million on lobbying last year (Pfizer, for example, chipped in $22 million) -- more than any other single industry has ever spent on lobbying on behalf of any issue, and by far the most that any group spent last year on health care.
 To put that figure in perspective, it is about $90 million more than the oil and gas industry spent on lobbying last year.
 In addition to the $648 million that all sides spent lobbying on health care, they also poured $210 million into television advertising, according to Evan Tracey, chief operating officer of the Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks television commercials.
 The television spending on health care also set a record for a single issue in a single calendar year, Mr. Tracey said.
 Those who favored an overhaul spent more on advertising than those who opposed it -- $99.5 million compared with $85 million, Mr. Tracey said. (The rest was spent on peripheral issues in the health care debate without advocating for or against the overall effort.)
 The drug industry's powerful trade group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, devoted $26 million to lobbying and separately spent $120 million to $130 million for a television campaign and grass-roots activity, an industry official said. 
 Part of the value to Mr. Obama in giving the drug industry a seat at the table was that it did not hit him with negative advertising the way it attacked the Clinton health care proposal in the early 1990s. 
 Some of the industry's commercials revived the old ''Harry and Louise'' advertisements from the Clinton era, but this time they were supportive.
 The American Hospital Association, which also supported an overhaul, spent $16.3 million on lobbying. Like the drug industry, the hospital association also made a pact with the White House, agreeing to give up $155 billion in Medicare payments over the next decade to help lower the cost of the overall package; in return, hospitals would get millions of new customers who would have insurance, so hospitals would have to provide less free care.
 So the president has not lacked for lobbyists. But his own party is fractured, and he is up against a united Republican front and their business allies. 
 The campaign against a health care overhaul was led by the United States Chamber of Commerce, which spent about $144 million on lobbying and worked hand in hand with the insurance industry, which the White House chose as its villain.
 Mr. Tracey estimated that the chamber spent an additional $50 million on television commercials. Individual insurance companies, as well as their trade group, America's Health Insurance Plans, funneled money to the chamber to help pay for some of the commercials.
 Together, the chamber and the insurance industry argued that an overhaul would actually increase health care costs, not reduce them, and warned that the legislation contained hidden taxes that would be damaging during an economic slump.
 Their crowning achievement was to kill the so-called public option, at least in the Senate, in which a government-run health insurance plan would have competed with private insurers.
 With the comprehensive legislation lying in the intensive care unit, R. Bruce Josten, chief lobbyist for the Chamber of Commerce, said the organization got its money's worth. Despite the Democratic majorities in the House and the Senate, he said, they have not been able to muster support for a single final bill.
 ''We had a good year,'' Mr. Josten said. ''I have no regrets.''
 While the future of any health legislation is uncertain, the future of lobbying is probably not.
 Because of a recent Supreme Court decision, lobbyists can now inject additional money directly into political campaigns and are likely to have even more power.
 ''Health care has been the biggest game in town,'' said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, which advocates for tightening the nation's campaign finance laws. ''Now, those who are against it can unleash an immense aggregate of corporate wealth on officeholders if they vote the wrong way.''
 And so can those who support it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ''Harry and Louise'' commercials of the 1990s were revived, with a twist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSURANCE (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (84%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (83%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (83%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (55%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



923 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Speeding Up Missile Defenses In Persian Gulf

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is accelerating the deployment of new defenses against possible Iranian missile attacks in the Persian Gulf, placing special ships off the Iranian coast and antimissile systems in at least four Arab countries, according to administration and military officials.
 The deployments come at a critical turning point in President Obama's dealings with Iran. After months of unsuccessful diplomatic outreach, the administration is trying to win broad international consensus for sanctions against the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps, which Western nations say control a covert nuclear arms program. 
 Mr. Obama spoke of the shift in his State of the Union address, warning of ''consequences'' if Iran continued to defy United Nations demands to stop manufacturing nuclear fuel. And Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton publicly warned China on Friday that its opposition to sanctions was shortsighted. 
 The news that the United States is deploying antimissile defenses -- including a rare public discussion of them by Gen. David H. Petraeus -- appears to be part of a coordinated administration strategy to increase pressure on Iran.
 The deployments are also partly intended to counter the impression that Iran is fast becoming the most powerful military force in the Middle East, to forestall any Iranian escalation of its confrontation with the West if new sanctions are imposed. In addition, the administration is trying to show Israel that there is no immediate need for military strikes against Iranian nuclear and missile facilities, according to administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
 By highlighting the defensive nature of the buildup, the administration was hoping to avoid a sharp response from Tehran.
 Military officials said that the countries that accepted the defense systems were Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Kuwait. They said the Kuwaitis had agreed to take the defensive weapons to supplement older, less capable models it has had for years. Saudi Arabia and Israel have long had similar equipment of their own.
 General Petraeus has declined to say who was taking the American equipment, probably because many countries in the gulf region are hesitant to be publicly identified as accepting American military aid and the troops that come with it. In fact, the names of countries where the antimissile systems are deployed are classified, but many of them are an open secret.
 The general spoke about the deployments at a conference at the Institute for the Study of War here on Jan. 22, saying that ''Iran is clearly seen as a very serious threat by those on the other side of the gulf front.'' 
 General Petraeus said that the acceleration of defensive systems -- which began when President George W. Bush was in office -- included ''eight Patriot missile batteries, two in each of four countries.'' Patriot missiles are capable of shooting down short-range offensive missiles. 
 He also described a first line of defense: He said the United States was now keeping Aegis cruisers on patrol in the Persian Gulf at all times. Those cruisers are equipped with advanced radar and antimissile systems designed to intercept medium-range missiles. Those systems would not be useful against Iran's long-range missile, the Shahab 3, but intelligence agencies believe that it will be years before Iran can solve the problems of placing a nuclear warhead atop that missile. 
 Iran contends that it is not trying to develop nuclear weapons, and that its program is for energy production. The White House declined to comment on the deployments. 
 But administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the moves have several aims. ''Our first goal is to deter the Iranians,'' said one senior administration official. ''A second is to reassure the Arab states, so they don't feel they have to go nuclear themselves. But there is certainly an element of calming the Israelis as well.''
 As Iran's nuclear program proceeds -- more slowly, American intelligence officials say, than the United States had once thought -- Israel has hinted at various times that it might take military action against the country's military facilities unless it is convinced that Mr. Obama and Western allies are succeeding in stopping the program. 
 Mr. Obama's national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones, took an unannounced trip to Israel this month, partly to take the temperature of the Israeli government and to review both economic and covert programs now under way against the Iranian program, according to officials familiar with the meeting.
 American officials argue that the willingness of Arab states to take the American emplacements, which usually come with a small deployment of American soldiers to operate, maintain and protect the equipment, illustrates the region's growing unease about Iran's ambitions and abilities. 
 Gulf countries are also taking steps of their own to harden their defenses. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have bought more than $15 billion in American arms in the past two years, including missile defense systems. The United States is helping support a plan by Saudi Arabia to triple the size, to 30,000 people, of a Saudi force that protects the kingdom's ports, oil facilities and water-desalinization plants, a senior military officer said. The Washington Post reported both steps on its Web site on Saturday.
 One senior military officer said that General Petraeus had started talking openly about the Patriot deployments about a month ago, when it became increasingly clear that international efforts toward imposing sanctions against Iran faced hurdles, and the administration's efforts to engage Iran were being rebuffed by the Tehran government. In October, the two countries reached an agreement in principle to move a significant portion of Iran's nuclear fuel out of the country, but Iran backed away from the deal.
 In discussing the Patriots and missile-shooting ships, General Petraeus's main message has been to reassure allies in the gulf that the United States is committed to helping defend the region, said the military officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate nature of the topic. But the general's remarks were also a pointed reminder to the Iranians of American resolve, the officer said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); DAVID PETRAEUS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (94%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (93%); KUWAIT (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); QATAR (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



924 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1755 words

HEADLINE: How to Reform Our Financial System

BYLINE: By PAUL VOLCKER. 
Paul Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, is the chairman of the president's Economic Recovery Advisory Board.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA 10 days ago set out one important element in the needed structural reform of the financial system. No one can reasonably contest the need for such reform, in the United States and in other countries as well. We have after all a system that broke down in the most serious crisis in 75 years. The cost has been enormous in terms of unemployment and lost production. The repercussions have been international.
 Aggressive action by governments and central banks -- really unprecedented in both magnitude and scope -- has been necessary to revive and maintain market functions. Some of that support has continued to this day. Here in the United States as elsewhere, some of the largest and proudest financial institutions -- including both investment and commercial banks -- have been rescued or merged with the help of massive official funds. Those actions were taken out of well-justified concern that their outright failure would irreparably impair market functioning and further damage the real economy already in recession. 
 Now the economy is recovering, if at a still modest pace. Funds are flowing more readily in financial markets, but still far from normally. Discussion is underway here and abroad about specific reforms, many of which have been set out by the United States administration: appropriate capital and liquidity requirements for banks; better official supervision on the one hand and on the other improved risk management and board oversight for private institutions; a review of accounting approaches toward financial institutions; and others. 
 As President Obama has emphasized, some central structural issues have not yet been satisfactorily addressed. 
 A large concern is the residue of moral hazard from the extensive and successful efforts of central banks and governments to rescue large failing and potentially failing financial institutions. The long-established ''safety net'' undergirding the stability of commercial banks -- deposit insurance and lender of last resort facilities -- has been both reinforced and extended in a series of ad hoc decisions to support investment banks, mortgage providers and the world's largest insurance company. In the process, managements, creditors and to some extent stockholders of these non-banks have been protected. 
 The phrase ''too big to fail'' has entered into our everyday vocabulary. It carries the implication that really large, complex and highly interconnected financial institutions can count on public support at critical times. The sense of public outrage over seemingly unfair treatment is palpable. Beyond the emotion, the result is to provide those institutions with a competitive advantage in their financing, in their size and in their ability to take and absorb risks.
 As things stand, the consequence will be to enhance incentives to risk-taking and leverage, with the implication of an even more fragile financial system. We need to find more effective fail-safe arrangements. 
 In approaching that challenge, we need to recognize that the basic operations of commercial banks are integral to a well-functioning private financial system. It is those institutions, after all, that manage and protect the basic payments systems upon which we all depend. More broadly, they provide the essential intermediating function of matching the need for safe and readily available depositories for liquid funds with the need for reliable sources of credit for businesses, individuals and governments.
 Combining those essential functions unavoidably entails risk, sometimes substantial risk. That is why Adam Smith more than 200 years ago advocated keeping banks small. Then an individual failure would not be so destructive for the economy. That approach does not really seem feasible in today's world, not given the size of businesses, the substantial investment required in technology and the national and international reach required.
 Instead, governments have long provided commercial banks with the public ''safety net.'' The implied moral hazard has been balanced by close regulation and supervision. Improved capital requirements and leverage restrictions are now also under consideration in international forums as a key element of reform. 
 The further proposal set out by the president recently to limit the proprietary activities of banks approaches the problem from a complementary direction. The point of departure is that adding further layers of risk to the inherent risks of essential commercial bank functions doesn't make sense, not when those risks arise from more speculative activities far better suited for other areas of the financial markets. 
 The specific points at issue are ownership or sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds, and proprietary trading -- that is, placing bank capital at risk in the search of speculative profit rather than in response to customer needs. Those activities are actively engaged in by only a handful of American mega-commercial banks, perhaps four or five. Only 25 or 30 may be significant internationally.
 Apart from the risks inherent in these activities, they also present virtually insolvable conflicts of interest with customer relationships, conflicts that simply cannot be escaped by an elaboration of so-called Chinese walls between different divisions of an institution. The further point is that the three activities at issue -- which in themselves are legitimate and useful parts of our capital markets -- are in no way dependent on commercial banks' ownership. These days there are literally thousands of independent hedge funds and equity funds of widely varying size perfectly capable of maintaining innovative competitive markets. Individually, such independent capital market institutions, typically financed privately, are heavily dependent like other businesses upon commercial bank services, including in their case prime brokerage. Commercial bank ownership only tilts a ''level playing field'' without clear value added.
 Very few of those capital market institutions, both because of their typically more limited size and more stable sources of finance, could present a credible claim to be ''too big'' or ''too interconnected'' to fail. In fact, sizable numbers of such institutions fail or voluntarily cease business in troubled times with no adverse consequences for the viability of markets. 
 What we do need is protection against the outliers. There are a limited number of investment banks (or perhaps insurance companies or other firms) the failure of which would be so disturbing as to raise concern about a broader market disruption. In such cases, authority by a relevant supervisory agency to limit their capital and leverage would be important, as the president has proposed.
 To meet the possibility that failure of such institutions may nonetheless threaten the system, the reform proposals of the Obama administration and other governments point to the need for a new ''resolution authority.'' Specifically, the appropriately designated agency should be authorized to intervene in the event that a systemically critical capital market institution is on the brink of failure. The agency would assume control for the sole purpose of arranging an orderly liquidation or merger. Limited funds would be made available to maintain continuity of operations while preparing for the demise of the organization. 
 To help facilitate that process, the concept of a ''living will'' has been set forth by a number of governments. Stockholders and management would not be protected. Creditors would be at risk, and would suffer to the extent that the ultimate liquidation value of the firm would fall short of its debts.
 To put it simply, in no sense would these capital market institutions be deemed ''too big to fail.'' What they would be free to do is to innovate, to trade, to speculate, to manage private pools of capital -- and as ordinary businesses in a capitalist economy, to fail. 
 I do not deal here with other key issues of structural reform. Surely, effective arrangements for clearing and settlement and other restrictions in the now enormous market for derivatives should be agreed to as part of the present reform program. So should the need for a designated agency -- preferably the Federal Reserve -- charged with reviewing and appraising market developments, identifying sources of weakness and recommending action to deal with the emerging problems. Those and other matters are part of the administration's program and now under international consideration. 
 In this country, I believe regulation of large insurance companies operating over many states needs to be reviewed. We also face a large challenge in rebuilding an efficient, competitive private mortgage market, an area in which commercial bank participation is needed. Those are matters for another day.
 What is essential now is that we work with other nations hosting large financial markets to reach a broad consensus on an outline for the needed structural reforms, certainly including those that the president has recently set out. My clear sense is that relevant international and foreign authorities are prepared to engage in that effort. In the process, significant points of operational detail will need to be resolved, including clarifying the range of trading activity appropriate for commercial banks in support of customer relationships. 
 I am well aware that there are interested parties that long to return to ''business as usual,'' even while retaining the comfort of remaining within the confines of the official safety net. They will argue that they themselves and intelligent regulators and supervisors, armed with recent experience, can maintain the needed surveillance, foresee the dangers and manage the risks.
 In contrast, I tell you that is no substitute for structural change, the point the president himself has set out so strongly.
 I've been there -- as regulator, as central banker, as commercial bank official and director -- for almost 60 years. I have observed how memories dim. Individuals change. Institutional and political pressures to ''lay off'' tough regulation will remain -- most notably in the fair weather that inevitably precedes the storm.
 The implication is clear. We need to face up to needed structural changes, and place them into law. To do less will simply mean ultimate failure -- failure to accept responsibility for learning from the lessons of the past and anticipating the needs of the future. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN CRONIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



925 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Unsettled At a Feel-Good Show

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
''I KNOW there is nothing a white person can say to a black person about race which is not both incorrect and offensive,'' James Spader's hard-driving lawyer says in the new David Mamet play, ''Race.'' ''I know that. Race is the most incendiary topic in our history. And the moment it comes out, you cannot close the lid on that box. That may change. But not for a long long while.''
 That harsh sentiment, a classic bit of Mametian blunt speak, might earn a particularly sympathetic hearing from the friends of the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid. As much as we would like to think we live in a postracial America, having elected a black president, the potency of race as a topic for generating scandal -- however cynical or bogus -- suggests otherwise. 
 This partly explains why I've been finding plenty of reasons to put off airing my conflicted reactions to the new musical ''Fela!'' Mr. Mamet's drama, about a legal case that ostensibly turns on perceptions of racism, seems intended to stoke controversy with its forthright title and its boiling arguments about who can say what to whom. But paradoxically the most provocative show in town in this regard may be the feel-good musical about the Nigerian singer and activist Fela Anikulapo-Kuti.
 As much as I enjoyed the show, directed and choreographed by Bill T. Jones, it left me with lingering questions about the depiction of the African milieu it evoked. In short, the emphasis in ''Fela!'' on the spectacle of African culture tilted the show a little too closely toward minstrelsy. It evoked an unsettling feeling I can't say I ever had before at the theater.
 Hold the digital brickbats, please, while I make my case. By definition, of course, ''Fela!'' has nothing to do with literal minstrelsy, an American form of entertainment dating to the years after the Civil War. Minstrel shows were revues including musical numbers, sketches and jokes performed in blackface (by both blacks and whites, for both blacks and whites) that disseminated ugly racial stereotypes. ''Fela!'' is about the singer who synthesized various musical influences to invent a new sound called Afrobeat, and who became a galvanizing force behind the Nigerians' fight against an oppressive and corrupt government. It's vibrant, exciting and fabulously performed. 
 But there really are no characters, aside from Fela Kuti himself. True, his mother makes a couple of ghostly appearances and is described lovingly by her son, and during a sojourn in America Fela is shown interacting with a brash woman spouting black-power slogans. (It seems odd that the only character other than Fela Kuti who has any sustained dialogue is an American.) But the rest of the cast members -- numbering more than 15 -- have no clearly defined roles to play, spending most of the time performing Mr. Jones's energetic, hip-wiggling riffs on African dance and joining in the songs.
 A recent article in The New York Times revealed that the women who represent Fela's many wives all have researched the back stories of their characters, but in the context of the show we learn virtually nothing about any of them. (You might not even pick up on the fact that they're supposed to represent his wives.) In contrast with characters in recent plays like Lynn Nottage's ''Ruined'' and Danai Gurira's ''Eclipsed'' -- both of which explore the hard experience of African women by depicting fully developed lives caught in trying, sometimes terrible circumstances -- the women of ''Fela!'' are largely festive window dressing. Attired in eye-catching, vibrantly colored, flesh-baring ensembles, with their faces painted, they strut around the stage and the theater looking exotic, imperious and sexy. So too do the male members of the ensemble, who also bare a lot of flesh but have little to do other than sing and dance. 
 Hence my discomfort. The presentation of African culture as a feast of exotic pageantry has the potential, at least, to reinforce stereotypes of African people as primitive and unsophisticated, albeit endowed with astounding aptitudes for song and dance. Although some of the dancers have individual moments, none are given individual voices; sometimes they simply drape the stage like gaudy decor. And the way the dancers weave in and out of the audience repeatedly seems ingratiating, a sort of seduction that almost sexualizes the performers. 
 The fourth wall serves many purposes at the theater, but one is to allow the audience to have some intellectual perspective on the material. In frolicking so exuberantly among the theatergoers, ''Fela!'' sometimes seems to turn its ostensible characters into flashy sideshow entertainments, to elevate sensation over substance.
 The absence of staged narrative that might allow for more richly developed characters partly derives from the way the show is structured. A more evolved kind of jukebox musical, ''Fela!'' is conceived as a concert taking place on the final night at the Shrine nightclub, where Fela's fans gathered to party and to hear his political consciousness-raising patter.
 The man himself does all the talking, providing snippets of his life history in between the songs and ecstatic dance numbers. But the storytelling is scattered and sometimes indistinct. (You learn more about the sociopolitical situation by reading the newspaper headlines in the video projections on the set.) I suspect that if the show struck a greater balance between pure dance and cogent storytelling -- or managed to weave the two together a bit more consistently -- my sense that the exotic was being overemphasized (even fetishized) would evaporate.
 Context is key here too. Would I feel any discomfort if I were attending an African dance recital at Dance Theater Workshop? Probably not. An air of exuberant commercialism surrounds Broadway productions -- you can buy $20 ''Fela!'' programs and T-shirts at the theater -- that can sometimes add a surface layer of crassness to shows that are intrinsically free from it. Fine art can be cheapened by the need to compete in a commercial marketplace. The carnivalesque atmosphere at ''Fela!'' is more pronounced on Broadway than it was in the show's earlier run Off Broadway. The theater is bedecked in vibrantly colored panels of corrugated metal and African gewgaws; the intention is to immerse the audience in a sense of being at the Shrine, but it is unintentionally a little like being in a Disneyland version of Africa. 
 And this parade of African experience is being staged for Broadway audiences who are still largely white, middle aged and middle class. (At the performances I've attended the audience looked to be about 60 percent to 70 percent white, which is nevertheless significantly smaller than at most Broadway shows.) Many will have had little exposure to African culture, and some may come away with the impression that the partying played a larger role in the lives of the people surrounding Fela than the grim political battles and the economic hardship. (For obvious reasons Fela Kuti cannot announce from the stage that he had AIDS and died in 1997.)
 To be sure, the climax of the show describes in grim, harrowing detail the death of his mother and the horrific abuse of his wives during a government raid on his compound. Mr. Jones and Jim Lewis, who together wrote the book, have done their best to include as much pertinent history as the concept for the show can comfortably allow. The signal truth of Fela Kuti's life is that his music was the vehicle for his political activism; the two cannot be separated. It's for those inthe audience -- and I encourage everyone with an interest in new currents in theater to attend -- to decide for themselves how effectively ''Fela!'' strikes a balance between presenting African experience as an audience-seducing entertainment and revealing the turbulent complexities of the culture behind it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Music and movement: The musical ''Fela!,'' directed and choreographed by Bill T. Jones, has more than 15 cast members, but only a few have clearly defined roles.(AR1)
 The 'Fela!' performers, above, dance among audience members during a performance at the Eugene O'Neill Theater. Below left, Sahr Ngaujah with Lillias White, who, as Fela's mother, makes a couple of appearances. Below right, Mr. Ngaujah plays the Nigerian singer and activist Fela Anikulapo-Kuti. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); SCANDALS (78%); THEATER (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); MUSICAL THEATER (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CHOREOGRAPHY (67%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (93%)

TITLE: Fela! (Play)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



926 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 IRAQ MENDS ITS SYSTEM TO TREAT MENTAL TRAUMA
 Iraq's mental health care system was decimated by the exodus of professionals during the height of sectarian violence. By 2006, fewer than 100 psychiatrists remained. But the government has embarked on an ambitious program to rebuild the system. PAGE 6
 UNCERTAINTY IN DAGESTAN
 Dagestan, a republic of Russia, is plagued by clan wars, Islamic fundamentalism and public alienation. All those problems factor into a question the Kremlin has to answer in the coming days: Who can bring peace if they are named its president? PAGE 6 
 IN DAVOS, A SENSE OF DISTRUST
 If there was one takeaway from the annual gathering of business and political leaders in Davos, Switzerland, this year, it was this: trust in governments and corporations has become an elusive product . PAGE 8 
 FOOD COUPONS IN HAITI
 After two weeks of often chaotic food distribution, the United Nations announced plans for a coupon-based system that aims to give rice to 10,000 Haitians a day at 16 locations around the capital, Port-au-Prince. PAGE 14 
 Missiles Kill 15 in Pakistan 12
 Mistake Kills 4 Afghan Soldiers 12
 National
 A QUEST TO FIND RELATIVES TO CARE FOR FOSTER TEENAGERS
 There is a growing national shift toward finding relatives as caretakers of foster children, a quest sometimes limited by a seeming scarcity of known kin. But foster and adoption agencies have found that assertive efforts can turn up dozens of relatives for almost any child. PAGE 16
 IN PORTLAND, PLANT AND SAVE
 In Portland, the federal government plans to plant a bold garden above the General Services Administration, with ''vegetated fins'' that will grow more than 200 feet high on the buildings western facade. The garden would change with the seasons to yield energy savings. PAGE 16
 LOBBYING THRIVED IN 2009
 A new study found that health care and insurance lobbyists spent more than $648 million in 2009 -- dwarfing the amount spent on any other issue in a single year. Prescriptions by Katharine Q. Seelye. PAGE 23
 Metropolitan
 PRINCETON STUDENTS GRIPE ABOUT GRADE DEFLATION
 Princeton University set out six years ago to corral galloping grade inflation by putting a lid on A's. But the idea is running into fierce resistance from the school's Type-A-plus student body. PAGE 1
 Sports
 EXCESS REIGNS AT SUPER BOWL, AND THAT'S NO BALLYHOO
 In 43 years, little has changed about the Super Bowl: the buildup is interminable, the game sometimes anticlimactic, and the news media coverage ambivalent, simultaneously mocking and intensifying the pregame hysteria. PAGE 1
 STATES ADDRESS CONCUSSIONS
 Washington and Oregon passed last year the first concussion-specific laws covering scholastic sports. Now dozens of states are considering legislation to improve awareness and treatment of concussions in youth sports. PAGE 2
 GLOBETROTTERS ON ICE
 In Central Park on Feb. 9, the Harlem Globetrotters will play what is believed to be the first professional basketball game on ice. The team will face a familiar foe, the Washington Generals. PAGE 3
 GEORGETOWN BEATS DUKE
 Chris Wright and No. 7 Georgetown stole the game from No. 8 Duke, forcing five turnovers in a two-minute, first-half spurt on the way to an 89-77 victory in front of President Obama. PAGE 5
 The President Does Play-by-Play 5
 Football Recruiting in Connecticut 4
 TV Show Helps Player's Resume 4
 Mickelson Fills in for Woods 6
 Sunday Business
 THE PLACES THEY GO WHEN BANKS SAY NO
 As traditional banks have spurned small businesses, many have turned to firms that provide a relatively expensive alternative: purchase-order financing. PAGE 1
 LITTLE STUYVESANT TOWNS
 When credit was easy, many companies borrowed heavily to buy apartments in Manhattan, Queens and the Bronx. Now some of these deals may be in trouble. Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1 
 Arts & Leisure
 DAMSELS IN DISTRESS, BOZOS IN HEAT
 Television is a universe of opposites. But one pair of channels is more striking than the rest: Spike and Lifetime. With each channel offering new fare -- Spike introduced ''Blue Mountain State''; Lifetime fired up a new season of ''Project Runway'' -- it seems a good time to compare these two cable franchises. PAGE 1
 TALKING ABOUT A REVOLUTION
 Even as the movie studio-indie model crumbles, a new nonstudio model appears to be emerging from the rubble. Novice filmmakers and independent insiders have begun experimenting with new approaches to releasing movies. PAGE 11
 Magazine
 THE JIHADIST NEXT DOOR
 In his small-town Alabama high school, Omar Hammami was among the coolest, most gifted students in his class. How did he grow up to become a leader in an African terror group linked to Al Qaeda? PAGE 26
 AN ECOLOGICAL UNCONSCIOUS
 A branch of psychology says that there is an ecological unconscious and that ignoring it puts not just the planet but also our minds at risk. PAGE 36
 The Ethicist: Randy Cohen Page 16
 Book Review
 THE NIGHT BELONGS TO US
 ''Just Kids'' -- Patti Smith's evocative and splendidly titled new memoir -- is the most spellbinding and diverting portrait of funky-but-chic New York in the late 1960s and '70s that any alumnus has committed to print. PAGE 1 
 Travel
 MEMPHIS WITHOUT ELVIS
 Meet indie Memphis. Midtown is its hipster center, a diverse area that is home to cocktail bars as well as dive rock clubs and longstanding juke joints. PAGE 5
 SundayStyles
 TOO SMART PHONES
 Of the roughly 140,000 applications available for an iPhone, the average owner uses just 5 to 10 regularly. The coming Apple iPad will bring even more apps, but people may still not change their habits. PAGE 1
 Automobiles
 A QUEST FOR MIRACLES
 Many people had never heard of Spyker, a Dutch builder of six-figure sports cars. Until, that is, the company began bidding to acquire Saab from General Motors. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 11 
 Week in Review
 A MUDDLED SALE: OBAMA
 In a world with so many fast-moving and intractable problems, nuance, flexibility and pragmatism are no doubt good things. But is it possible to embrace complexity in a political and media culture that demands simplicity and conflict? PAGE 1
 Editorial
 NO JOBS, NO RECOVERY
 What does it take to translate an incipient recovery into a sustained expansion? In a word: jobs. Week In Review, Page 9
 IN OUR OWN BACKYARD
 The concerns about security and inconvenience raised by the plan to try Khalid Shaikh Mohammed in Manhattan were understandable. But caving in to political pressure and agreeing to move the trial, as the Obama administration has decided to do, was the wrong move. Week in Review, Page 9 
 Op-ed
 FRANK RICH
 Our union, despite Obama's speech to the contrary, is not strong. It is paralyzed. Body blows to the legislative branch are needed. Week in Review, Page 10
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 At this year's Davos forum, there is the sense that America is making the rest of the world nervous. Week in Review, Page 10
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Yes we Camus: Obama perks up to spar with the G.O.P. Week in Review, Page 11
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 A recent book on the 2008 presidential campaign that relies exclusively on anonymous sources posed a dilemma for The Times. Week in Review, Page 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); BRAIN INJURIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (84%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (77%); ADOPTION SERVICES (77%); RELIGION (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FUNDAMENTALISM (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); FOSTER CARE (71%); CHILDREN (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); GRADE INFLATION (66%); ADOPTION (66%); INSURANCE (64%); DEFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); YOUTH SPORTS (60%); BASKETBALL (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (90%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) IRAQ (94%); HAITI (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



927 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Hello, New York: Avant-Garde Eastern Europe

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
IN Poland during the late 1960s and early '70s acquiring American hit records and similar artifacts of Western culture was virtually impossible. But where there is a demand, a solution is sure to arise. A desire for bubble-gum pop in Krakow led to kiosks dealing in sound postcards: cheap, disposable records consisting of a grooved plastic laminate affixed to a colorful paper card suitable for mailing. 
 Bearing scratchy, unauthorized copies of recordings by the pop luminaries Tom Jones and Andy Williams, as well as American funk and disco acts like Donna Summer and Hot Chocolate, sound postcards helped Poles cut off from Western pop culture to partake of its ephemeral pleasures. 
 By the time Mat Schulz, an Australian writer, settled in Krakow 15 years ago, those postcards had been relegated to flea markets, which is where he discovered and started to collect them. Otherwise he found a city fully up to speed with global musical trends and awash in fresh creative energy. Inspired by what he encountered, seven years ago Mr. Schulz started the Unsound Festival, which has since grown into one of the premier avant-garde music presentations in Europe.
 On Thursday Mr. Schulz will open the first Unsound Festival New York, a 10-day series of concerts, film screenings, panel discussions and exhibitions in spaces throughout the city, in the David Rubenstein Atrium at Lincoln Center. The festival's attractions will include Mr. Schulz's personal sound postcard collection, mounted for curiosity seekers to see and hear at the Devotion Gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
 The wide range of offerings in Mr. Schulz's inaugural New York event shows how far Unsound has developed from its start as a relatively modest electronic-music festival.
 ''The kind of concert where there's one person sitting with a laptop, even if the music sounds great, it's not necessarily a great experience,'' Mr. Schulz said over lunch recently at a cafe in Hell's Kitchen. ''Partly because I felt frustrated with only having that kind of music, we broadened the range and started to think about this idea of 'advanced music,' which is a kind of approach to making music rather than strict definitions.''
 In New York that broad umbrella will cover a range that includes programs of club-oriented electronica, indie rock, free improvisation, ambient music and contemporary classical work. In some programs such distinctions become meaningless: at the opening event, for example, Sebastian Meissner, a German electronic artist, will collaborate with the young Polish contemporary-classical group Kwartludium in a project inspired by the seminal California punk-rock record label SST.
 Carl Craig, a techno innovator from Detroit, will participate in a series devoted to Andy Warhol films with live accompaniments. No stranger to cross-genre collaborations, Mr. Craig recently worked with the German techno artist Moritz Von Oswald on a project that used Ravel and Mussorgsky recordings by Herbert von Karajan as source material for dreamy electronic flights. Before arriving in New York, Mr. Craig will travel to Paris to record ''Versus,'' his recent orchestral composition.
 ''I've always been interested in music that is diverse and people that have no boundaries,'' Mr. Craig said from Detroit. ''I had a little bit of exposure to John Cage and Stockhausen and some of the other people who took music into their own hands and decided to do pieces that were risky. All that stuff is quite interesting to me, where people who are really trained in music decide to go outside of what they were trained in.''
 Other well-known acts scheduled to appear during Unsound include the Austrian improvising trio Radian and the Finnish producer Vladislav Delay. But Mr. Schulz -- who founded Unsound both to present international artists in Krakow and to place Polish artists among their international peers -- also wants to foster an international audience for deserving Eastern European artists.
 ''One thing that I noticed in terms of the festivals that deal with similar music in North America is that it's really rare for artists from east of Berlin to perform,'' Mr. Schulz said. ''The reasons have to do with geography, history, economy and the way these things connect. But still, it leaves out a lot of people who would be well-known if they were born in London or based elsewhere.''
 As examples he cited Petre Inspirescu, a Romanian techno artist; Zavoloka, a Ukrainian electronic musician; and Pavel Ambiont, a Belarussian dub-electronica producer. (Most of these performers, even the geographically isolated Mr. Ambiont, keep Web sites or MySpace pages stocked with current sounds.)
 Mr. Schulz is quick to note that programming the New York festival was not entirely his doing. He partnered with presenters in New York and elsewhere in America, including Ronen Givony of Wordless Music; Bryan Kasenic, a founder of the Brooklyn nightclub series the Bunker; the Issue Project Room; and Communikey, a concert series in Boulder, Colo. The Goethe Institute of New York, the Polish Cultural Institute, Romanian Cultural Institute and Trust for Mutual Understanding also provided support in mounting what should prove an eye- and ear-opening event.
 ''The fact that it's coming from Krakow in a sense makes it more interesting,'' Mr. Schulz said. ''It's not what you would expect, and it makes a comment about the way that culture now doesn't necessarily come from these precise points you'd think it would come from. That's what this festival is about as well: disrupting preconceived notions of a lot of different types, not only about what a country or a city is, or what cultural centers are, but also what music is and how different kinds of music can be connected. That's really at the heart of the whole enterprise.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From near right, Max Loderbauer, Vladislav Delay and Moritz von Oswald are part of the Unsound Festival, which Mat Schulz, below right, has helped bring to New York from Krakow. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RENNE PASSET
 GOSIA PLYSA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (85%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (52%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) POLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



928 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
EVERYTHING RAVAGED, EVERYTHING BURNED, by Wells Tower (Picador, $14.) The protagonists of these nine ''polished and distinctive'' stories, as our reviewer, Edmund White, called them, are men who are ''older, battered, no longer successful.'' (In the story ''Retreat,'' they are ''sad, paunchy hordes . . . nightly pacing carpeted apartments from Spokane to Chattanooga.'') White praised Tower's ''remarkable style'': his grasp of psychology, crisp dialogue and supple syntax, and his dark, surrealistic vision of American life. 
 THE INHERITANCE: The World Obama Confronts and the Challenges to American Power, by David E. Sanger. (Three Rivers, $16.) George W. Bush's foreign policy, writes Sanger, The Times's chief Washington correspondent, ''has left us less admired by our allies, less feared by our enemies and less capable of convincing the rest of the world that our economic and political model is worthy of emulation.'' This book is a catalog of wasted opportunities and a blunt assessment of what is likely to happen in the future -- American troops in Afghanistan for decades, a nuclear Iran. In The Times, Gary J. Bass found the book ''dazzling and mordantly hilarious'' and Sanger a ''shrewd and insightful strategic thinker.'' THE GAMBLE: General Petraeus and the American Military Adventure in Iraq, by Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin, $17.) Picking up where Ricks's devastating ''Fiasco'' (2006) left off, this book examines the surge, particularly its new counterinsurgency tactics. In contrast to Bob Woodward, who saw the surge's origins in the White House in the fall of 2006, Ricks, who covered the military for The Washington Post from 2000 to 2008, argues that the Bush administration might never have contemplated the change in strategy had the Democrats not won the midterm elections that November. Ricks predicts that ''the events for which the Iraq war will be remembered probably have not yet happened.'' 
 LOWBOY, by John Wray (Picador, $14.) Lowboy -- so called for his love of riding subways -- is a paranoid schizophrenic teenager who is off his meds and has escaped his chaperones from a mental institution. Chapters alternate between Lowboy's skewed perspective and those of his devoted mother and the detective who is trying to find him. Our reviewer, Charles Bock, enjoyed Wray's ''vibrant'' characters and the ''poet's eye'' revealed in his descriptions of New York and the subways where much of the novel takes place. ''Lowboy,'' he said, is ''meticulously constructed'' and ''often gripping.'' 
 THE BLACK GIRL NEXT DOOR: A Memoir, by Jennifer Baszile (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $15.) Growing up in a nearly all-white suburb of Los Angeles in a house a block from the ocean during the 1970s and '80s, Baszile did not want for material possessions but always felt that she did not fully belong and wrestled with ''consuming fears of poverty, failure, exclusion and rejection.'' Baszile's memoir, written mostly from the perspective of herself as a girl, reveals the turmoil underlying her family's achievements. She is now Yale's first black female professor of history. 
 THE GREAT INFLATION AND ITS AFTERMATH: The Past and Future of American Affluence, by Robert J. Samuelson (Random House, $17.) Samuelson's meditation on inflation chides Walter Heller, President Kennedy's chief economic adviser, who persuaded Kennedy to accept higher inflation in exchange for more jobs, leading eventually to the ''stagflation'' of the 1970s. In The Times, Paul Krugman rejected ''the claim that stagflation proved the badness of liberal ideas'' as ''a standard bit of conservative propaganda.'' 
 THE FIRST PERSON: And Other Stories, by Ali Smith (Anchor, $14.95.) In this collection, Smith tests the limits of the story form. Are the nameless romantic couple, both women, the same people from story to story? Perhaps, or not; details are hard to pin down. In five of the stories, the first-person narrator speaks directly to ''you,'' the beloved. Smith's style is original, and these stories about an on-again, off-again relationship have an emotional resonance. 
 THE ROSE VARIATIONS, by Marisha Chamberlain (Soho, $14.) A young composer named Rose MacGregor who has just landed a job at a St. Paul college is the protagonist of this first novel. ''Out of the homespun material of awkward love affairs and lust for tenure,'' James Wilcox wrote in the Book Review, Chamberlain has created an ''enthralling'' narrative full of ''fresh insights.'' 
 A COURSE CALLED IRELAND: A Long Walk in Search of a Country, a Pint, and the Next Tee, by Tom Coyne (Gotham, $16.) Coyne not only walked the famous golf courses of Ireland, but walked from course to course, all around the island. The result is as much a travelogue as a golf book, full of observations about the landscape and the people he encountered. 
 SUM: Forty Tales From the Afterlives, by David Eagleman (Vintage, $13.) ''If you are thinking of dying, this book may not exactly increase your peace of mind,'' Alexander McCall Smith wrote in the Book Review. In 40 vignettes, Eagleman, a neuroscientist, lays out 40 possibilities for the afterlife, each based on a different explanation of who God is. It is a ''delightful, thought-provoking little collection,'' McCall Smith said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (68%); ELECTIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (88%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



929 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; VISTAS FROM THE BOAT DECK; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: From the Inside Looking Out

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
When a 1,099-foot container ship like the Xin Fei Zhou makes its way toward the mouth of San Francisco Bay, it is met by a bar pilot like Bruce Horton. Mr. Horton, 48, has the job of boarding ships and navigating them under the Golden Gate Bridge and through the tricky currents and tides to the Port of Oakland, or the oil refineries along the Carquinez Strait or farther up the delta.MALIA WOLLAN 
 ECONOMIC INDICATORS I like looking out toward the ship's bow and seeing containers stacked high. There are orange containers, dark blue ones, dark green and light green, brown and yellow ones. A ship carrying fewer containers means that things are not going well.
UP A LADDER We board incoming ships at a buoy 11 miles outside the Golden Gate Bridge. Last year in the United States, I think there were six pilots that died. One guy had a heart attack and fell into the water. Other guys fell and hit the pilot boat. In big waves, you have to time it perfectly so that when you get on the ladder, the boat is going down. 
 BOARDING AT THE BUOY Coming in from the buoy, you can see the Farallon Islands. You can see other ships. But mostly you're just staring at the water. It's much more beautiful being inside the bay, being able to look out over the San Francisco skyline, the Bay Bridge, the Port of Oakland. At night the city is full of bright lights.
 AVOIDING THE FLOTSAM We are allowed to go 15 knots in the bay. That's about 12 miles an hour. It can take upwards of two miles to stop a ship. The bottom line is that you can't worry yourself about the sailboats and wind surfers. You just can't really maneuver a ship around somebody. 
 BENEATH THE RADAR Every time I come across the channel through the Oakland Bay Bridge, I'm going cross current, and every time, my heart starts racing a little bit. You can't get complacent. You get in a lot of trouble that way. When I tell people I'm a bar pilot, very few have any idea what that means. Most of the time it's nice to be low key and fly under the radar. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on the favorite view of Bruce Horton, a bar pilot in San Francisco Bay, included a quotation that gave the wrong conversion from knots to miles per hour. Fifteen knots is about 17 m.p.h., not 12 m.p.h.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bruce Horton, a bar pilot, likes his view of San Francisco Bay from the top of a container ship.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (90%); HEART DISEASE (68%); WATER SPORTS (67%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



930 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 31B

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: As Lender, Giannoulias Impacted Bank Woes

BYLINE: By DAVID GREISING. 
David Greising is a veteran business writer and deputy editor of the Chicago News Cooperative.

 BODY:
Alexi Giannoulias would be nothing in Illinois politics if not for Broadway Bank. Now the near-failure of that family-owned bank is threatening to make him a political non-entity again. 
 Broadway Bank is the source of the wealth that has made him a viable candidate. It also provides his main claim to professional expertise, the ability to write loans and tally a balance sheet. But now the precipitous implosion of the bank's finances -- punctuated last week by an agreement with regulators that the bank must raise more capital or else -- is a potentially serious blow to Mr. Giannoulias's viability in the race for the United States Senate seat once held by President Obama.
Mr. Giannoulias, 33, has ducked all but the most general questions about which loans he approved that might have contributed to the bank's trouble. He said there would be time later to get into such details. 
 I interpret that to mean: ''I hope I can get this past my fellow Democrats. I'll worry about my Republican opponent later.'' 
 Though he would not talk to the Chicago News Cooperative, in public statements Mr. Giannoulias has noted that four years have passed since he left the bank. In a statement, the bank said only 9 percent of the $242 million in nonperforming assets currently on its books originated under Mr. Giannoulias. 
 But here is an inconvenient fact about bank failures: They do not happen overnight. A dollop of reckless lending here, a dash of destabilizing hot money there, hide a few troubles over there. Let that simmer for a while and, voila!, an insolvency souffle. 
 After law school, Mr. Giannoulias went to work full-time at the bank in 2002. He quickly became a senior loan officer and then a vice president. Whether merely by coincidence, or because of the ambition and aggressiveness of its well-pedigreed new junior executive, the bank's profile changed sharply between then and when Mr. Giannoulias resigned after winning the race for state treasurer in November 2006. 
 According to a review of the bank's annual filings with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation from 2001 through Sept. 30, 2009, the bank plunged into the sort of lending that has caused bank crises across the country: construction and development loans. Mr. Giannoulias's lending department sharply increased the construction and development portfolio to $356 million by 2006, six times the level it had been before he went to work there. 
 In 2006, the bank set aside $2.2 million as a provision against loan losses, a safety measure that federal regulators require banks to take. Despite its large increase in risky loans, Broadway only doubled its bad-loan reserve in the time Mr. Giannoulias was there. A bank spokesman said he had been only lightly involved during that period. 
 Construction-related lending jumped to more than triple the bank's required regulatory capital during this period, and the loans started to go bad. By the time Mr. Giannoulias departed, Broadway was left with nearly $14 million in real estate on its books, more than 10 times the level when he arrived. Foreclosures take time, though -- often about 18 months. And within two years of Mr. Giannoulias's departure, the bank was left holding $38 million in real estate. 
 The move into real estate coincided with a headlong push into brokered deposits. This is quintessential hot money -- large amounts that jump from bank to bank, each bank offering the lure of high interest , which the banks then must fund by making ever-riskier loans. 
 During Mr. Giannoulias's time at the bank, brokered deposits catapulted fourfold, to $640 million. The typical bank at this point was growing brokered deposits at about 9 percent a year. Mr. Giannoulias's bank was increasing its load by as much as 48 percent in a single year. Broadway Bank's brokered deposits reached 80 percent of total deposits in 2006. 
 No one knows for certain how big a role Mr. Giannoulias played in these decisions. As Broadway's top lending officer, he must have influenced the move into construction lending. As a connected family member, he was probably present during discussions of the hot-money play. Certainly, he took part in the family's decision to take out some $70 million in dividends from the bank in 2007 and 2008, even as it careened toward a consent decree with the F.D.I.C. 
 Mr. Giannoulias told reporters that a time would come when he could answer questions about what happened at his family's bank. Here is hoping there is plenty of time, because questions keep mounting faster than the troubles at Broadway Bank. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexi Giannoulias at a recent Planned Parenthood fund-raiser.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



931 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead Jan. 31 - Feb. 6

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Theater
 Musicals have gone in and out of fashion repeatedly in Hollywood, where a single smash hit -- or a thundering bomb -- can cause an instant reversal of fortunes for any genre. (Thanks to ''Nine,'' we may soon be in for a musical recession.) When Hollywood prepared to make a movie of the hit Broadway show ''FANNY,'' which ran for more than two years in the middle 1950s, the Warner Brothers chief Jack Warner decided that eliminating the songs would position the movie for a larger audience. 
 In truth this seems peculiar, considering that ''Gigi,'' an original movie musical also set in France and also featuring Leslie Caron and Maurice Chevalier, was a much-laureled box office juggernaut just a few years before. But ''Fanny'' actually had its roots in the nonmusical movies. The Broadway show was inspired by Marcel Pagnol's film trilogy from the 1930s. (In any case logic has never made much headway in show business.)
 Vestiges of the acclaimed score by Harold Rome can be heard during the movie's opening credits, but the City Center Encores! series this week offers us the opportunity to rediscover what Hollywood tossed aside, as it presents the original stage version of ''Fanny'' with Rome's score intact and very much upfront. Set in the French seaport of Marseille, ''Fanny'' is the story of a young man torn between the lure of the sea and the lure of the girl next door. Elena Shaddow and James Snyder play the lovers, and the Broadway veteran George Hearn takes the role of the older man Fanny is forced to marry when she loses the fight for her man's soul. For a while anyway. 
 Thursday through next Sunday, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org; $25 to $95. 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A Theater entry in the Week Ahead report last Sunday about the City Center ''Encores!'' revival of ''Fanny'' misidentified the actor who plays Panisse, the man whom Fanny is forced to marry. Fred Applegate plays Panisse -- not George Hearn, who plays the father of Fanny's true love. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); FILM (90%); CALENDARS (84%); FILM GENRES (78%); THEATER (59%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



932 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Discontent And Anger Motivate Voters

BYLINE: By DON TERRY and KATIE FRETLAND

 BODY:
Finishing his breakfast at Valois Restaurant in Hyde Park last week, Craig Woods, a 55-year-old pipe fitter from Lake County, had to be reminded that there is a primary election on Tuesday. He said he tried to forget unpleasant subjects -- like politicians and the ''promises they always break.'' 
 ''As far as I'm concerned,'' Mr. Woods said, ''they should outsource all the politicians. The country needs jobs, but all the politicians care about is the banks. The politicians are running America into the ground.''
As voters prepared to head to the polls this week, interviews across the Chicago area show, candidates must fight to win voters' trust. Incumbents, in particular, seem most likely to face a backlash. 
 From the streets and barbershops of President Barack Obama's Hyde Park to a conservative candidates' forum in Gurnee; from a coffee shop in Zion to a working-class neighborhood in Jefferson Park, there was a consensus: throw out those in charge and keep a close eye on the ones who might replace them. 
 The anger was bipartisan. So was the deep sense of fear about the national economy and its repercussions here in Illinois. People said they were tired of war and terrified of terrorists, fearful of losing their homes and their livelihoods. Locally, concerns ranged from the corruption in Springfield to the privatization of Chicago's parking. 
 And everywhere, the four-letter word on everyone's lips was ''jobs.'' 
 Ed P. O'Toole, 58, a retired mailman sitting on a bar stool in Jefferson Park, said he used to measure weakness in the economy by the number of unemployment checks on his route. ''It never got as bad as it is today,'' he said. 
 Mr. O'Toole comes from a military family, and said he wanted his elected officials to take better care of veterans, create jobs and make health care more affordable.
 Leon McGee, 76, a retired chemist from the South Side, was born at the tail end of the Great Depression and cannot remember a worse economy. ''We're like a third world country,'' he said. 
 On Jan. 23, about 65 people went to the wood-paneled Gurnee American Legion Hall for a Republican candidates' event sponsored by the Northern Illinois Patriots, a Tea Party group. Among them were Amy and Jesse Moore of Zion, who have a 2-year-old daughter and a mortgage they struggle to pay. 
 ''We are wondering, Where is our money going?'' said Mrs. Moore, 28, a self-described staunch pro-life voter. ''What are we paying taxes for?'' 
 Mr. Moore, 28, lost his job in 2005, but quickly found work in Lake Bluff as a machinist. Mrs. Moore is a full-time mother. They said they considered themselves lucky even though their home had plummeted in value in the six years since they bought it. 
 ''We wish we had never bought the house,'' Mrs. Moore said. ''We're stuck now.'' 
 She leaned forward in her seat as the candidates, including Dan Proft, a contender for governor, and Maria Rodriguez, the hopeful for the Eighth Congressional District, spoke and fielded questions about the economy, protecting gun rights and their plans to clean up corruption in a state where one in five former governors in the past century have wound up behind bars. 
 ''I would end the practice of committing felonies by the governor's office,'' Mr. Proft said. ''I promised my mom I wouldn't go to federal prison.'' 
 In nearby Zion, Rhonda Janus, 57, owner of the shop It's All Good Coffee and Espresso, wants tax breaks for small businesses like hers, paid for by cuts in the size of government.
 ''When we prosper, we're anxious to see others prosper,'' Ms. Janus said. ''We're not hoarders, and our government seems to be hoarders.'' 
 Democratic politicians also face an angry electorate. When Daniel W. Hynes, the state comptroller and candidate for governor, made a campaign stop at a Riverdale hair salon recently, Donnie Hackler, a barber, was blunt. ''We've heard all this before,'' Mr. Hackler said.
 Gov. Patrick J. Quinn, also a Democrat, was sitting at a restaurant in Tinley Park recently when a woman came by to offer sympathy. ''You're certainly catching a lot of heat,'' she said. 
 The diverse breakfast crowd at Valois, a restaurant in Hyde Park, matches the name of a popular item on the menu: The Everything Omelet. Seated around the scattered Formica tables on any given morning are police officers and civil rights leaders, military veterans and university professors, retired chemists and construction workers, Asians and Latinos, blacks and whites. 
 One morning last week, as customers contemplated voting, their sense of anger seemed rooted in causes nearly as diverse as the lives they lead. 
 Mr. Woods, the pipe fitter, grew up in the city as the son of a Chicago policeman and voted for Mr. Obama for president. His friend Mike Taylor, a 54-year-old pipe fitter from McHenry County, did not vote for Mr. Obama. Even so, Mr. Taylor said, he is willing to give the president ''a fair shake,'' because, ''I think he's really trying and he's a real smart guy.'' 
 ''But everybody is frustrated with the economy,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''If he can turn this mess around, I'll vote for him.'' 
 A few tables away, Neka Borders, 33, a chef, and Robert Quashie, 45, a marketing consultant, agreed that they were both angry and scared at the direction in which the country seemed to be going. 
 ''I don't feel the president has lived up to the promises he made to the people,'' Ms. Borders said. ''But he's done very well by the corporations.'' 
 As for Tuesday's primary election, Ms. Borders said she had not started paying attention and might not vote -- a sad first for her. 
 ''I've unplugged,'' she said. ''I don't watch the news, read the papers. Right now, I'm so disappointed in how the government is being run from the head down. I haven't wanted to face the local political banter. I'm turned off by the politics of the politics.'' 
 Charles Holt, a retired tobacco salesman and a Vietnam War veteran, sat at his usual table near the front window, so he could keep a lookout for any police officers checking the parking meters. 
 ''The meters are what I'm angry about,'' Mr. Holt said. ''All these increases when you got everybody laid off, it's crazy.'' 
 ''Put the meters at the top of my list, too,'' said his friend Drew Thomas, a retired postal worker and Army veteran. 
 ''Mark my words,'' Mr. Holt shot back. ''The parking meters are going to be the downfall of Mayor Daley.'' 
 Mr. Drew shook his head in agreement. 
 ''If I was to start a group, the name of it would be the Outraged Party,' Mr. Drew said. ''We've got so much corruption and waste. Whoever heard of giving bonuses to people who ruin their own companies?'' 
 Both men, however, said it was unfair to blame Mr. Obama for the messed-up economy. He has been in office only a year; give him time, they said. 
 ''I feel sorry for Obama,'' Mr. Holt said. ''Every time he turns around, there's another crisis.'' 
 Mr. Holt and Mr. Thomas parted company when it came to Tuesday's election. In the race for president of the Cook County board, Mr. Holt said he had voted early and for the incumbent, Todd H. Stroger. Mr. Thomas said he had voted for Alderman Toni Preckwinkle. 
 Their friend Mr. McGee, the retired chemist, said it did not matter, because ''all politicians start off 50 percent rotten and get worse from there.'' 
 A half-mile west down 53rd Street, Robert Hunter was giving a haircut to Anthony Mayo, a retired police lieutenant. Mr. Hunter has cut hair on that block since 1955. 
 ''If there was plenty of work, nobody would care what crook was in office,'' Mr. Hunter said. ''A pocket full of money makes everybody happy. It doesn't matter whether it's a national election or who's going to be dog catcher, it all boils down to jobs, jobs, jobs.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'If there was plenty of work, nobody would care what crook was in office.' ROBERT HUNTER, Barber
'We're not hoarders, and our government seems to be hoarders.' RHONDA JANUS, Owner of the It's All Good Coffee and Espresso shop
'We wish we had never bought the house. We're stuck now.' AMY MOORE, Full-time mother with a 2-year old daughter(A31A)
 ' The meters are what I'm angry about.' CHARLES HOLT, Retired tobacco salesman and a Vietnam War veteran (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)(A31B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); DISMISSALS (70%); CORRUPTION (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%); TERRORISM (50%); SPONSORSHIP (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



933 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Margaret Cannella, Ronald Brown

 BODY:
Margaret Mary Cannella and Ronald Alan Brown were married Saturday at the Princeton University Chapel in Princeton, N.J. The Rev. Thomas J. Mullelly, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. 
 Ms. Cannella, 57, is keeping her name. She is an adjunct professor in the finance department at Columbia Business School in Manhattan. She retired in January 2009 as a managing director and the global head of credit research in the investment banking unit of JPMorgan Chase in Manhattan. She is on the board of the microfinance subsidiary of CHF International, an organization that provides humanitarian relief and economic development aid to 25 countries. She graduated from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from Columbia. She is the daughter of the late Concetta A. Cannella and the late Joseph C. Cannella, who lived in Bayside, Queens.
 Mr. Brown, 59, is the director of gift planning at Princeton University, from which he also graduated. He works with alumni and other donors in fund-raising efforts. He received a master's degree in English from the University of Chicago and is a commander in the Naval Reserve. 
 He is a son of Winifred M. Smith of Atlanta and the late Edgar Brown, who lived in Los Angeles, and is a stepson of the late Ralph C. Smith. 
 The bride was a widow and the bridegroom a widower. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES J KRIEGSMANN JR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MICROFINANCE (71%); NAVIES (66%); STEPPARENTS (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



934 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Robyn Weinstein, Matt Goldich

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
Robyn Weinstein and Matt Goldich were married Saturday evening in Wilmington, Del. Rabbi Josh Snyder officiated at the Hotel du Pont. 
 The bride, 28, is the director of the unemployment insurance advocacy project at Volunteers of Legal Service, a pro bono legal services organization in New York. She graduated from George Washington University and received a law degree from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University. 
 She is a daughter of Melinda Weinstein and Dr. Andrew G. Weinstein, who live and work in Wilmington. Her father, an asthma specialist, is the managing partner of Asthma and Allergy Care of Delaware, a medical practice for which the bride's mother is an office administrator.
 The bridegroom, 30, is a staff writer for ''The Late Show with David Letterman'' and a stand-up comedian in New York who appeared on the Comedy Central show ''Premium Blend'' in 2006. He graduated from Brown.
 He is a son of Debra K. Goldich and Robert M. Goldich of Lafayette Hill, Pa. His mother is a school nurse for the Lower Merion School District in Pennsylvania. His father is a Philadelphia-based partner in the Miami law firm Greenberg Traurig,. 
 Ms. Weinstein and Mr. Goldich met in June 2006 at a Manhattan bar in which he was performing. That night, he tossed out a rhetorical question to the women in the audience. 
 ''It was something like, 'You girls know what it's like when you go out with a guy and he doesn't call you afterward,' '' Mr. Goldich recalled.
 Rather than nod her head, as other women in the audience had, Ms. Weinstein, a comedy club newbie who was sitting in the second row, blurted out: ''I have no idea what you're talking about.'' 
 Ms. Weinstein explained, ''I meant it to mean that what he was talking about had never happened to me.'' 
 Mr. Goldich was a bit rattled by her outburst, but also admitted to being impressed.
 ''Generally, when you're on stage, you don't want people interjecting and ruining the moment,'' he said. ''But I thought that Robyn's response was a funny and astute comment.''
 At the end of his set Mr. Goldich approached Ms. Weinstein and asked for her e-mail address so he could invite her to his next show. 
 A few weeks later his invitation arrived, and Ms. Weinstein, who had found him to be cute as well as funny, went to see him perform.
 After the second show, Mr. Goldich was a bit more serious with Ms. Weinstein. 
 ''He came right up to me and just asked me out, right there on the spot,'' she recalled. ''I was like 'O.K.' I never dated a comedian before.''
 ''And he has been making me laugh ever since.'' VINCENT M. MALLOZZI 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA NOVAK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (75%); NURSES & NURSING (75%); ASTHMA (75%); PRO BONO LAW (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%)

COMPANY: GREENBERG TRAURIG LLP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



935 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Voters Seem to Like Campbell's Switch

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics and policy for more than 20 years.

 BODY:
Tom Campbell was not supposed to be in this position.
 Having concluded that he had little chance of besting two multimillionaires in a race for governor, Mr. Campbell abruptly switched campaigns two weeks ago, opting to run for the United States Senate instead and joining two other rivals in the Republican primary contest. The move looked like an act of political desperation by a man who has been a congressman, a state senator, a law professor at Stanford and dean of the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley.
Some had thought that Mr. Campbell might split moderate Republican support with Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett Packard, creating an opening for Chuck DeVore, a little-known but staunchly conservative legislator from Southern California. 
 Others had suggested that Mr. Campbell and Ms. Fiorina would split the Northern California vote, or that Mr. Campbell and Mr. DeVore would divide the male vote, leaving Ms. Fiorina in the driver's seat.
 Instead, according to two independent public polls, the race for the Republican Senate nomination is now Mr. Campbell's to lose. The cerebral, congenial and, yes, professorial Mr. Campbell will spend the next several months fighting off the challenge from Ms. Fiorina, who might be more dynamic on the stump and engaging in person but who so far has not gained much traction with the voters.
 A survey by the Field Poll released on Jan. 21 had Mr. Campbell leading Ms. Fiorina by 30 percent to 25 percent, with Mr. DeVore at just 6 percent. Then, last week, a poll by the Public Policy Institute of California showed Mr. Campbell at 27 percent, Ms. Fiorina at 16 percent and Mr. DeVore at 8 percent.
 Ms. Fiorina's advisers attribute Mr. Campbell's advantage to the fact that he is better known. Once Ms. Fiorina begins buying advertising to introduce herself to the electorate, they say, she will emerge as the favorite.
 ''Our view is that this is probably as good as it is going to get for Campbell,'' said Marty Wilson, Ms. Fiorina's campaign manager. 
 In fact, none of the candidates is particularly well known. In the Field Poll, 63 percent of Republicans said they had no opinion of Mr. Campbell. Among those who did, 26 percent had a favorable impression and 11 percent an unfavorable one. Ms. Fiorina was unknown to 7 in 10 Republican voters. Twenty percent had a favorable impression of her, and 10 percent were unfavorably inclined.
 Mr. Campbell did best in Northern California, among moderately conservative voters, among people older than 65 and among women. Ms. Fiorina was nearly even with him in Southern California, among strongly conservative voters, among men and among younger voters.
 The gap among women is interesting. Mr. Campbell led Ms. Fiorina in the Field Poll among female voters by 28 percent to 19 percent. In the Public Policy Institute survey, Mr. Campbell's edge was 24 percent to 10 percent. Mr. Campbell also does better than Ms. Fiorina, a breast cancer survivor, among women in hypothetical match-ups with the Democratic incumbent, Senator Barbara Boxer.
 Mr. Wilson attributes this weakness to Ms. Fiorina's political inexperience as well.
 ''Carly is going to be better known among men because of her history in the business world,'' he said. ''Her pedigree as a business leader, as a high-profile executive of two major corporations, will make her better known to a business audience, and presumably that audience is male-dominated.''
 Mr. Campbell's strategist, Ray McNally, said he had ''no idea'' why his candidate was doing better among women than men. But he said the active, informed Republican voters who already know both candidates prefer Mr. Campbell because they like his record and see flaws in Ms. Fiorina's resume.
 With economic security a top concern, he said, Republican voters sense that Ms. Fiorina would be hurt in a general election by her record of cutting costs and laying off workers at Hewlett Packard.
 ''She does not have the back story that sells in this kind of economic climate,'' Mr. McNally said. ''The Democrats will just savage her record.''
 But first Ms. Fiorina, and perhaps Mr. DeVore, will savage Mr. Campbell's record, highlighting his recent support for tax increases to balance the state budget. Having risen from the politically dead, he will need to survive that onslaught before he can think about the challenge to Ms. Boxer in the fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



936 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths ATWATER, PHYLLIS YVONNE

 BODY:
ATWATER--Phyllis Yvonne. She was born on November 4, 1947. She died peacefully in her home in New York City on December 12, 2009. Phyllis is survived: by her husband, John R. Ernst; her mother, Thelda E. Phillips Atwater; and her sister Bertha L. Atwater. Phyllis was born and raised in Memphis, TN. 
Precocious and brilliant, she entered Vassar College at age 16 and graduated with honors with a degree in Mathematics in 1968. She then went on to obtain her Master's degree in Mathematics from Boston University. Post graduation, Phyllis helped create Roxbury Community College. It was also at this time that she met and then married John on December 28, 1972. As Phyllis continued her academic career she won a fellowship from the Ford Foundation. She then became a Danforth Foundation Dissertation Fellow at the New School, where she worked on her doctoral dissertation, "The Difference between Depreciation Charges and Replacement Costs." In the 1980s Phyllis was President of R2B2 (Resource Recovery of the Borough of the Bronx). Subsequent to this position she then held a number of high-level state and city government positions, both in New York and Massachusetts. Most recently Phyllis served as the Director of the Certification Unit for the Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise program. Phyllis was also very active in the community. She was on the board of directors of the Girls and Boys Project and the Scenic Hudson Foundation. Most recently, Phyllis was a founding member of the Psi Lambda Omega Brooklyn chapter of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority. Phyllis was a woman of great intellect, warmth, humor, wit, insight, and commitment. She touched everyone she knew and will be missed by her immediate family, her uncles, aunts, cousins and friends. Thank you Phyllis, for sharing your life with us! In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to The Atwater Foundation (located at 64 Fulton Street Suite 404, New York, NY 10038-2755). The foundation is a non-profit organization started in her honor, and will support scholarship in the areas of education, economics and the environment. Please be sure to join Phyllis's family and friends at 6pm on March 17, 2010 for a celebration of her life at Trinity Church in New York City. For more information please contact the toll free number, 1-866-271-4900 or email celebration@pipeline.com 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); WOMEN (77%); MATHEMATICS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CITIES (73%); DEPRECIATION (68%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (65%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); DANFORTH FOUNDATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



937 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths JOFFE, ROBERT D

 BODY:
JOFFE--Robert D. All the lawyers and staff of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP mourn the loss of their partner Bob Joffe, a friend and mentor who was a preeminent litigator and boardroom adviser. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife and family to whom he was so devoted. Mr. Joffe was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in August 2009 and died in New York, NY on January 28. He was 66 years old. Over the course of his extraordinary career, Mr. Joffe was well- known nationally and internationally, both for his tenacity in handling landmark litigation and for his ability to provide highly sensitive counsel in the boardrooms of corporate America. 
Since 1978, Mr. Joffe was the primary outside lawyer for Time Warner. One of the many significant matters he handled was the merger of Time Inc. and Warner Communications Inc. He was the principal litigator for Time Inc. in successfully rebutting Paramount's 1989 attempted takeover in a case considered to be a milestone in M&A litigation. Mr. Joffe represented the Boards of Directors of some of the world's most prominent companies in connection with their most pressing challenges, especially during the recent financial crisis. He was a longtime advisor to the non-management directors of Fannie Mae and was also counsel to the independent directors of Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, General Electric and General Motors, among many others. Mr. Joffe was passionate about human rights even as a student at Harvard Law School. From 1967 to 1969, after just a few months as a Cravath associate, Mr. Joffe left New York to serve in the Ministry of Justice of the Government of Malawi on an Africa Asia Public Service Fellowship funded by the Ford Foundation. It was in this position that he assisted the Commissioner for Law Revision in rewriting the country's laws and instituting a framework for supervision of the local courts for this African country. He continued his interest in civil rights and, in 1989, he argued Martin v. Wilks, a pro bono civil rights case in the United States Supreme Court in which he represented black and women municipal employees in Birmingham, Alabama, in an effort to secure equal opportunity in employment. In later years, as Cravath's Presiding Partner, Mr. Joffe was a strong promoter of the need for lawyers to treat pro bono clients with equal regard and concern as they would any paying client. Mr. Joffe became a partner at Cravath in 1975. He was elected Deputy Presiding Partner in 1997 and became Cravath's Presiding Partner in 1999. Mr. Joffe served as the Firm's leader until December 31, 2006. Mr. Joffe was a beloved and devoted husband, father and son. He is survived by his wife Virginia (Dinny), two children, Katherine Joffe (New York, NY) and David Joffe (New York, NY) and two stepchildren, Dr. Ryan DeHaas (Concord, NC) and Elizabeth DeHass (New York, NY), and two grandchildren. He is also survived by his mother, Bertha Joffe, and two brothers, Paul Joffe (Washington, DC) and Richard Joffe (New York, NY). A memorial service will be held to celebrate his life on Wednesday, February 10th at 11am at All Souls Church, 1157 Lexington Ave. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to Human Rights First, 333 Seventh Ave., 13th Floor, New York, NY 10001 or to The After-School Corporation, 1440 Broadway, 14th Floor, New York, NY 10018. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); LITIGATION (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PRO BONO LAW (78%); TAKEOVERS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (71%); CANCER (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); CHILDREN (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); FOUNDATIONS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (96%); TIME INC (91%); WARNER COMMUNICATIONS INC (69%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (96%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALAWI (79%); ASIA (78%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



938 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 4384 words

HEADLINE: Giant Steps

BYLINE: By DAVID HAJDU. 
David Hajdu is the music critic for The New Republic and a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism. He is the author of ''Lush Life: A Biography of Billy Strayhorn,'' among other books on music and culture.

 BODY:
Influential artists sometimes click in the public consciousness only after the rise of the movements they have influenced. A school of creative work emerges -- seemingly spontaneously, its origins obscure at first. Then, with attention to the artists in that school comes recognition of their influences, their antecedents and their mentors. After Pollock, de Kooning and their peers in postwar American art established Abstract Expressionism, the precursory importance of prewar iconoclasts like Kandinsky became clear. After the Ramones, the Sex Pistols and the Clash blurted forth punk rock in the 1970s, a rude vision became apparent in the noise of '60s garage bands like the Seeds. 
 A new movement in jazz has surfaced over the past few years -- a wave of highly expressive music more concerned with emotion than with craft or virtuosity; a genre-blind music that casually mingles strains of pop, classical and folk musics from many cultures; an informal, elastic music unyielding to rigid conceptions of what jazz is supposed to be. It's fair to call it ''post-Marsalis,'' in that it leaves behind the defensive, canon-oriented musical conservatism of '90s jazz (as both Branford and Wynton Marsalis themselves have done in their best work of the past decade). Among this music's most celebrated and duly admired practitioners are the pianists Brad Mehldau, Ethan Iverson (of the trio the Bad Plus), Jason Moran and Vijay Iyer. And singular among the trailblazers of their art, a largely unsung innovator of this borderless, individualistic jazz -- a jazz for the 21st century -- is the pianist and composer Fred Hersch.
Never a grandstander, unconcerned with publicity, Hersch has been a fiercely independent but unassuming presence on the New York jazz scene since he moved to the city at age 21 in 1977. He has made more than 45 albums as a solo performer, composer, bandleader or duo partner since 1991, when he released his first record of original material, a collection of unclassifiable songs composed for jazz rhythm section, tenor saxophone and cello, aptly titled, ''Forward Motion.'' His body of work is clearly recognizable as a manifesto of contemporary jazz. ''Some people think I sound like Fred,'' says Mehldau, who like Iverson is a former student of Hersch's. ''That's because Fred was a major influence on me and on a lot of the players around today. Fred's musical world is a world where a lot of the developments of jazz history and all of music history come together in a very contemporary way. His style has a lot to do with thinking as an individual, and it has a lot to do with beauty. I wouldn't be doing what I do if I hadn't learned from Fred, and I think that's true of quite a few other people.'' 
 Jazz -- a music energized by the tensions between tradition and innovation, between collaborative cooperation and individual expression -- has gone through multiple phases over the years since Hersch started playing professionally more than 30 years ago: a craze for jazz-rock fusion; a celebrated rediscovery of the work of iconic masters (chief among them, Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington and Charlie Parker, exemplars of swing, orchestral jazz and bop, respectively); a retro lindy-hop fad; an arty ''downtown'' kick; and a leaning toward world music. Hersch has concerned himself with none of them. Hardly a straight-ahead bopper or a swing revivalist, a player too romantic for the avant-garde and far too serious for the lounges, Hersch is an artist indifferent to genre and unbeholden to musical fashion. The jazz tradition he best connects to is the unshakable iconoclasm of Thelonious Monk, Charles Mingus, Ornette Coleman and others like-minded in their disregard for like-mindedness. Hersch's music -- luxurious, free-flowing, unashamedly gorgeous jazz -- is idiosyncratically, unmistakably a creation of his own. As Ben Ratliff described him in a New York Times review of a Village Vanguard performance in 1997, Hersch is ''a master who plays it his way.'' 
 His determination to do things the Fred Hersch way has intensified considerably since the early '90s, when he made public his diagnosis of AIDS. Indeed, Hersch's range and prolificacy are such that he has needed half a dozen record labels for as many purposes: Nonesuch for Hersch the solo pianist; Sunnyside for his unorthodox quartet, the Pocket Orchestra; Palmetto for his quintet, the Fred Hersch Trio +2; Naxos for his hybrid jazz-classical concert music; various labels for his duet projects with singers as varied as Janis Siegel of the Manhattan Transfer, the veteran Brazilian vocalist Leny Andrade and the classical soprano Renee Fleming; and Concord for his concert at the Maybeck Recital Hall. 
 ''Fred is one of those rare musicians who can do many things well and never tries to sound like anyone else,'' says Seth Abramson, who books the Jazz Standard. ''It's interesting how many other pianists who come into the club remind me of Fred.'' That is to say, jazz has come around to doing it Hersch's way.
 While the sensibility he pioneered has flourished, Hersch himself has been heard from only sporadically over the past two years. The reason is that he has, on and off during this period, been gravely ill, so sick from AIDS and a severe bout of pneumonia that the people closest to him -- his partner, Scott Morgan, and his brother, Hank, as well as his parents -- thought, on the worst of his many very bad days, that they had seen him for the last time. Early in 2008, the H.I.V. virus migrated to his brain, and Hersch developed AIDS-related dementia. He lived for a time in mental and physical seclusion, hallucinating under the delusion that he had the power to control time and space and that everyone around him was plotting his demise. In fact, he came so close to dying that his paranoia seemed practically justified. At his sickest, late that year, Hersch fell into a coma and remained unconscious for a full two months. While incapacitated, he was bound to his bed in St. Vincent's Hospital in New York. He lost renal function and had to undergo regular dialysis, and he required a tracheotomy. He was unable to consume food or liquids of any kind, including water, for eight months. He could not swallow a thing or speak above a faint whisper. As a result of his prolonged unconsciousness and inactivity, he lost nearly all motor function in his hands and could not hold a pencil, let alone play the piano. 
 Today, at age 54, after many months of rehabilitation and therapy, grueling effort, effective medical care, an almost irrationally defiant refusal to accept his problems as anything less than temporary distractions from his music and a considerable amount of good luck, Hersch has achieved full recovery. Last year, he released two albums: a concert performance of his Pocket Orchestra CD, issued in the spring, and a solo piano record, ''Fred Hersch Plays Jobim,'' released (to immediate acclaim) in the summer. He has three completed works as yet unrecorded: a song cycle about art and photographic images, which he wrote with the poet Mary Jo Salter (some pieces of which were performed in a tribute to Hersch's music at Jazz at Lincoln Center a few years ago); a collection of jazz tunes honoring a quirky range of artists (musicians, writers, dancers) whom he admires; and a suite derived from themes by Tchaikovsky. On top of this explosion of Hersch music, a documentary about him -- ''Let Yourself Go: The Lives of Fred Hersch,'' directed by the German filmmaker Katja Duregger -- also came out last year. 
 In the fall, Hersch began work on a major new project, a long-form work that will deal explicitly with his recent traumas in words and music. The piece is an attempt to make art from the only life he knew for months, to give musical form to the dream images and cryptic narratives he still recalls vividly from his days and nights in a coma. 
 ''I'VE BEEN THROUGH a lot, and I want to make something of it, musically,'' Hersch said one afternoon in October. He had just finished giving a private lesson to a young pianist named Jeremy Siskind in the SoHo loft that has served as his professional headquarters and his New York residence for 30 years. For a while in the '80s, Hersch used the loft as a recording studio. In the corner of his parlor, a tiny, half-octagon-shaped room-within-a-room betrays its past as a drum chamber. He has brightened the almost lightless space by choosing splashy, Southwestern-ish pastel fabrics for the furnishings, and by placing, here and there, whimsical decorations like the toy piano on the top of the bookcase. Seated on the stool of the toy, prepared to play a four-handed duet, are painted carved-wood sculptures of a cat and a parrot. Facing the sofa is a 1921 Steinway grand piano at which Hersch, a jazz cat who has lived several lives, just gave a lesson to one of his many emulators. The piano -- the real one -- once belonged to Hersch's paternal grandmother. 
 ''I never wanted to be a classical pianist, because that takes a lot of discipline, and it takes chops, and I don't particularly like to practice, and I don't care very much about chops,'' Hersch said. ''To me, chops are just the ability to spin off and rattle off stuff. When you listen to somebody with a lot of chops, you say, 'Wow!' But you don't really come away feeling very much.'' 
 Hersch looked cheery in a pale-lemon, open-neck, wide-collar sport shirt from the '50s. He has a thing for vintage clothes, which provide him with a way to dress with flair, economically but without slavishness to the fashions of the season; as such, they connect loosely to his music, down to his work's winking humor and element of homage to musicians he admires.
 Growing up as a child music star in Cincinnati, Hersch was composing little pieces by age 7, and by the time he was 10, he was appearing weekly on a local Sunday-morning kids' program, ''The Skipper Ryle Show.'' ''The fact that he was on TV and had this prodigious talent gave him a lot of confidence,'' recalls his only sibling, Hank, an editor at Sports Illustrated who is about two years younger than his brother. ''In fact, he was always a bit of a prima donna.'' Also at age 10, Hersch composed a musical play about Peter Pan for his elementary school and rejected the faculty's demand that he cut or amend the music. 
 Around the same time, he entered a musical competition and showed up with only a short sketch; he announced that he would play an original composition titled ''A Windy Night,'' improvised most of it and won first prize. ''Fred,'' says his father, Henry Hersch, an attorney, ''was and is, um . . .'' -- pause -- ''a somewhat, I don't know . . .'' -- longer pause -- ''I don't want to use too loaded a word, but I'd say 'high-strung' or 'mercurial' or whatever. He has what some people call an artistic temperament.'' 
 After a term in general studies at Grinnell College in Iowa, Hersch dropped out and moved back to Cincinnati for a year and a half. He concentrated on his jazz education, gigging around town with local players, learning the music and its culture. Invigorated, he went back to college for music, enrolling in the New England Conservatory, where he studied under the jazz pianist and composer Jaki Byard. Graduating with honors, he moved to New York for the postgraduate education of sideman life. 
 Few jazz musicians in Hersch's generation rose as fast as he did. ''Fred was way out in front,'' says the tenor saxophonist Joe Lovano, a fellow Ohio native three years older than Hersch. ''A lot of the giants were still on the scene, and it was the great dream of the young cats like us to play with them, and Fred was one of the first ones to make that big jump.'' 
 When I first heard of Hersch, in the mid-'80s, he seemed to be in all the best places a jazz pianist could be -- playing one night with Joe Henderson, another night with Stan Getz or Lee Konitz or on his own at Bradley's, the club on University Place where many of the most respected pianists in jazz played and congregated to hear, support and pilfer from one another. Hank Jones, Tommy Flanagan and Jimmy Rowles all used Bradley's as their base, and each of them was at least 25 years older than Hersch. ''Fred is unique among pianists his age as a musician who really paid his dues as a jazz player,'' Ethan Iverson says. ''I can't even imagine what it was like to play night after night with Joe Henderson or Art Farmer and to play at Bradley's in front of the most horrifyingly heavy judges, juries and executioners. The way that pianists of my generation have learned about the music is through the sort of artificial world of records and scores, and not really natural assimilation. Fred absorbed the whole jazz tradition in the deepest possible way, and that's only the foundation of his playing. It was just his starting point. For a lot of other pianists, that would be the end point.'' 
 What I recall most vividly about Hersch's playing from his early years is its striking technical facility; I found him impressive -- though not as moving as I would find him years later. Over time, the physics of Hersch's musicianship inverted; he gave up impressing and worked, increasingly, to move. ''Jazz musicians didn't have stylists and publicists,'' Hersch said, sitting straight-backed on the sofa in his loft. ''You could hang out at the bar, and there was Art Blakey, smashed and hitting on the woman next to him. I wanted to play with the greatest players in the world, and I was probably pushy, but that's how I achieved what I did.''
 While he worked closely with other musicians, as jazz demands, he labored to protect the secret of his homosexuality. ''I was leading a dual life -- being gay and being a jazz musician and not knowing how those were going to meet,'' Hersch said. ''Jazz music, by its very nature, is intimate. You're trusting other people -- there's an intensity and shared emotion of creating something together, and I felt that if people knew that I was gay, they would mistake my intensity for sexual attraction. I didn't want it to stand in the way of achieving what I wanted to achieve. If you were sincere and you had talent and you're the kind of guy people want to play with, they didn't care what color you are -- you could be purple -- but gayness was a different matter.'' 
 Around the time Hersch recorded his first album as a trio leader, ''Horizons,'' for Concord, in the mid-'80s, he found out he was H.I.V.-positive. ''So my whole career as a leader has had this cloud over it,'' Hersch said. ''I was in that who-knows-what's-going-to-happen? land. A lot of my friends'' -- many of whom had full-blown AIDS -- ''were hopping off.'' 
 One afternoon, Hersch had a rehearsal scheduled with Stan Getz in Hersch's loft. After Getz rang Hersch's buzzer, Hersch found himself scooting to his bathroom to hide his boyfriend's toothbrush. ''That's when I realized, What the hell am I doing?'' he recalled. ''This is my home. This is my life. I decided I was going to open up about everything and just be myself, and the period of coming out was the beginning of my gaining confidence as a composer. I felt like I had to get it out there while I still had time.''
 Hersch paused abruptly, and said, ''Hold on -- I need to keep hydrated.'' He took a long gulp of iced tea and swallowed, with a bit of difficulty. ''I thought every album I did was going to be my last album,'' he went on. ''Being sick and knowing my time is precious has made me want to be totally myself in my music. I decided that I wasn't interested in playing hip music for hip cats. So I don't pander to an audience. I'm completely comfortable with what I do, and I just don't care what other people are doing.'' He coughed a bit of iced tea into a paper napkin. 
 ''It's kind of a miracle that I'm here at all,'' he said matter-of-factly. ''It's interesting -- I had to learn to work with a more limited palette, technically, as a pianist. At the same time, I felt stronger than ever, creatively. I found that I had more interesting things to say musically. I had more to express, and what I had to say didn't require pyrotechnics. The way I deal with the disease is, even though it has the power, I am not going to acknowledge that it has the power to mess with me.''
 In October, Hersch started working intently on what he sees as his ''most personal and probably most ambitious'' effort: ''the coma project.'' As he conceives of it at this early stage, it will be a concert-length piece with words, music and perhaps multimedia elements, to be performed by a midsize ensemble of a configuration to be determined as the music takes shape. Hersch is developing the new work with Herschel Garfein, the librettist and sometime composer best known for his collaboration with the composer Robert Aldridge on the opera ''Elmer Gantry.'' ''I was still alive for all that time I was unconscious, but the only life I had was in my dreams and nightmares, and they were incredibly strange and sometimes horrifying and sometimes beautiful,'' Hersch said. ''I was in a lot of physical pain and discomfort. I found out later that I had been restrained -- I was strapped to the bed, and the dreams I had were unbelievably weird and mysterious. I've been trying to come to terms with what I went through, and the best way I know is to try to express it in music.'' 
 What form will that music take? ''It was an incredibly bizarre and sometimes terrifying experience,'' Hersch said. ''There are no words to describe it. I'm hoping music can.'' 
 To many jazz fans, Fred Hersch is perhaps best known as a gay jazzman -- or the gay jazzman, despite the fact that the jazz world, like every sphere of human endeavor in and out of the arts, has always had a homosexual population. Indeed, Hersch's identity as a gay man -- and one with AIDS -- has shaped the way his music has been perceived by many people, including his own partner, Scott Morgan. On a cool Saturday morning last summer, Morgan relaxed on the deck of the nice vinyl-sided house he and Hersch have built on the side of a hill in the Pennsylvania woods, and he reflected on Hersch's image as a gay artist. ''One of the reasons that I was attracted to his music was not just his music but the fact that he was an out, gay musician early on -- I had him on a pedestal as a musician and as a person,'' said Morgan, who has studied both piano and voice and can play standards in the manner of a good rehearsal pianist. 
 ''It impressed me that he was willing to go against the grain from a career perspective,'' Morgan went on. ''He's got this incredible core of what he wants and who he is that is kind of amazing to me. I think Fred's music has an expressiveness and a lyricism that is his own. People say that's because he's gay, and I see how people can read into that and say, 'Well, I hear this sense of emotion, this depth, this lyricism' -- you hear some of that in some of his compositions. Clearly, we are gay, but our lives are not defined by the 'gay community' or by being gay.'' 
 If anything has inhibited the ability of Hersch's music to achieve the broader acceptance that, say, the work of the Marsalis brothers has achieved, it may be the subtlety and sheer loveliness of it -- its warmth, its quality of melancholy, traits that Americans conditioned to equate ''edginess'' and ''darkness'' with gravity can be slow to take as seriously as music that hits the ears more assaultively. His openness as a gay man is no help here and has surely conspired to feed hoary stereotypes of Hersch and his music as light stuff. As the pianist Jason Moran points out: ''Because Fred's playing is so beautiful, some people don't take it as seriously as they should. I think some people hear only flowers, but there's deep soil there. They don't really understand everything that's going on. Maybe if he gyrated and groaned and squinted his eyes and made it look hard when he played, they would get it. But Fred doesn't go for theatrics. Fred at the piano is like LeBron James on the basketball court. He's perfection.''
 Hersch, among the most sensitive of jazz pianists, is acutely sensitive to the proposition that his sensitivity makes his music ''gay.'' I took up the subject on a walk with him along the gravel path behind his country house. We heard hummingbirds in the beech trees and got to talking about nature and the conception of beauty as a value in gay culture. ''I wouldn't quite say that's bull, but it's a very dangerous idea,'' Hersch said, slowing his gait. ''The compliment I get the most often is, 'My, you sounded really beautiful.' I used to think, I want them to say something else, because I felt like that was a kind of, Oh, yeah, you're gay -- so of course you play lyrically and you're one of the great ballad players. Of course. But now I just don't care at all what people think. I think music should be beautiful. There's nothing wrong with beauty. I'm attracted to beauty and lyricism, but I don't play the way I do because I'm gay. I play the way I do because I'm Fred.'' 
 If his music is sometimes mistaken for soft, its composer never is. Among musicians and other professionals in jazz circles, Hersch's clarity of purpose and fierceness of will have contributed to his reputation as a fearsome taskmaster. Jo Lawry, the Pocket Orchestra vocalist, remembers as the ''foundation stone'' of her relationship with Hersch his phone call to her the day after he first saw her sing. Hersch told her that the way she swayed to the beat onstage was a distraction from the music and that she was ''jumping all over the place'' in her improvisations rather than fully developing her musical ideas. 
 At a Pocket Orchestra rehearsal in his loft, which I attended early last summer, Hersch ran the group through a piece called ''Free Flying'' at a vertiginous clip. The piece called for Lawry to precision-scat a wildly complicated melody in unison with the piano, and she flew through it. ''Now let's do it at a preposterous speed,'' Hersch announced; the group did, and Lawry got through it surprisingly well. ''Now, let's do it even faster, and I'm not going to play the melody with you anymore,'' he said, and Lawry survived being pushed beyond reasonable limits. 
 Janis Siegel, with whom Hersch has recorded several albums, has come to rely on Hersch's scrutiny and candor. ''Fred has pushed me to become a better musician, a better singer -- in ways, a better person,'' she says. ''He doesn't have time to goof around. If I want some straight-ahead feedback, I go to him. People will tell you what you want to hear, or they'll be not-quite truthful, because they don't want to hurt your feelings, but Fred's allegiance is to the music.''
 In the recording studio, ''Fred always knows what he wants,'' says his longtime engineer, Michael MacDonald, with whom Hersch has made more than 40 albums. ''If you ask him a question, he'll never say, 'Oh, I don't know.' He always has an idea.'' Twenty-five years ago, MacDonald says: ''Fred wasa petulant, stubborn, incredibly talented egomaniac eccentric who would dominate a recording session. He was always playing brilliantly, but it was a whole lot more egocentric. Since his illnesses, he's matured musically and also emotionally, in saying, 'Everything I do has to have meaning and has to be my best game, because I don't have a lot of time.' I've seen a huge change in him with the illnesses -- just the stop fooling around, stop wasting time.
 ''Fred's ego is enormous,'' MacDonald adds, dragging out the word. ''But when he's sitting at the piano, you don't hear the ego. You only hear his humanity.'' 
 HERSCH PLAYED a handful of gigs in New York last year as he grew stronger, and one was a run at the Jazz Standard with the Pocket Orchestra, to introduce the group's first CD. In addition to Hersch's piano, the instrumentation of this orchestra includes trumpet, percussion and voice. Like a great many things in Fred Hersch's life and work, the Pocket Orchestra defies expectations. 
 ''He looks good,'' said Fred's brother, Hank, who left a busy late night at work to go to the Jazz Standard with their mother, Flo Hoffheimer (who is divorced from her sons' father and remarried). Now 80, she flew in from Cincinnati that day for the occasion. The club was packed. Twenty or 30 people without reservations huddled outside the entrance hopefully, and the house manager waved some of them into the bar area as Hersch shuffled onto the bandstand with the Pocket Orchestra. 
 As he took his seat at the piano, Hersch fluffed the back of the silky mushroom brown shirt he was wearing, so the bottom of the fabric draped over the bench as the tails of a tuxedo would. He glanced at the audience for a second when he did this, and gave a little smile. He shook his shoulders loose and wiggled his bottom into a position he liked. Then he began to play, constructing a tight pattern of dense, repeating chords. He lowered his head slowly till it hovered just half a foot from the top of the piano, and he appeared to shrink into his clothes. Hersch, slim all his adult life, was about 15 pounds under his usual weight. His cheeks were hollow, and his skin was gray, though his eyes were bright and his playing was strong. In fact, in its emotive urgency, expressive range and beauty, Hersch's music had rarely been so potent. 
 After the second number, a lightly bopping composition called ''Lee's Dream,'' which Hersch wrote in tribute to the alto saxophonist Lee Konitz, Hersch's mother leaned back in the corner banquette where she was sitting with Hank and a few others, and she said, to no one in particular, ''Fred was such a fat little thing.'' 
 At the end of the set, she elaborated: ''When Fred was a boy, he was the most beautiful, chubby little thing you ever laid eyes on -- he was a blimp with appendages. And one day when he was 3 years old, I was pushing him around in a cart in the grocery store, and a woman -- a stranger, I had never met her before -- saw Fred, and she stopped in her tracks, and she looked at Fred, and she said, 'And who do you belong to?' 
 ''And Fred looked at her, and he said: 'I don't belong to anybody. I belong to myself.' 
 ''That was Fred,'' his mother said, ''and it still is.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM21)
 Retuned: Hersch at his home in New York City. Post-coma, he has released two albums and completed three other works. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE FRIEDLANDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (88%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); POP & ROCK (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); HISTORY (74%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (74%); SONG WRITING (74%); CONSERVATISM (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010



939 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 4384 words

HEADLINE: Giant Steps

BYLINE: By DAVID HAJDU. 
David Hajdu is the music critic for The New Republic and a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism. He is the author of ''Lush Life: A Biography of Billy Strayhorn,'' among other books on music and culture.

 BODY:
Influential artists sometimes click in the public consciousness only after the rise of the movements they have influenced. A school of creative work emerges -- seemingly spontaneously, its origins obscure at first. Then, with attention to the artists in that school comes recognition of their influences, their antecedents and their mentors. After Pollock, de Kooning and their peers in postwar American art established Abstract Expressionism, the precursory importance of prewar iconoclasts like Kandinsky became clear. After the Ramones, the Sex Pistols and the Clash blurted forth punk rock in the 1970s, a rude vision became apparent in the noise of '60s garage bands like the Seeds. 
 A new movement in jazz has surfaced over the past few years -- a wave of highly expressive music more concerned with emotion than with craft or virtuosity; a genre-blind music that casually mingles strains of pop, classical and folk musics from many cultures; an informal, elastic music unyielding to rigid conceptions of what jazz is supposed to be. It's fair to call it ''post-Marsalis,'' in that it leaves behind the defensive, canon-oriented musical conservatism of '90s jazz (as both Branford and Wynton Marsalis themselves have done in their best work of the past decade). Among this music's most celebrated and duly admired practitioners are the pianists Brad Mehldau, Ethan Iverson (of the trio the Bad Plus), Jason Moran and Vijay Iyer. And singular among the trailblazers of their art, a largely unsung innovator of this borderless, individualistic jazz -- a jazz for the 21st century -- is the pianist and composer Fred Hersch.
Never a grandstander, unconcerned with publicity, Hersch has been a fiercely independent but unassuming presence on the New York jazz scene since he moved to the city at age 21 in 1977. He has made more than 45 albums as a solo performer, composer, bandleader or duo partner since 1991, when he released his first record of original material, a collection of unclassifiable songs composed for jazz rhythm section, tenor saxophone and cello, aptly titled, ''Forward Motion.'' His body of work is clearly recognizable as a manifesto of contemporary jazz. ''Some people think I sound like Fred,'' says Mehldau, who like Iverson is a former student of Hersch's. ''That's because Fred was a major influence on me and on a lot of the players around today. Fred's musical world is a world where a lot of the developments of jazz history and all of music history come together in a very contemporary way. His style has a lot to do with thinking as an individual, and it has a lot to do with beauty. I wouldn't be doing what I do if I hadn't learned from Fred, and I think that's true of quite a few other people.'' 
 Jazz -- a music energized by the tensions between tradition and innovation, between collaborative cooperation and individual expression -- has gone through multiple phases over the years since Hersch started playing professionally more than 30 years ago: a craze for jazz-rock fusion; a celebrated rediscovery of the work of iconic masters (chief among them, Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington and Charlie Parker, exemplars of swing, orchestral jazz and bop, respectively); a retro lindy-hop fad; an arty ''downtown'' kick; and a leaning toward world music. Hersch has concerned himself with none of them. Hardly a straight-ahead bopper or a swing revivalist, a player too romantic for the avant-garde and far too serious for the lounges, Hersch is an artist indifferent to genre and unbeholden to musical fashion. The jazz tradition he best connects to is the unshakable iconoclasm of Thelonious Monk, Charles Mingus, Ornette Coleman and others like-minded in their disregard for like-mindedness. Hersch's music -- luxurious, free-flowing, unashamedly gorgeous jazz -- is idiosyncratically, unmistakably a creation of his own. As Ben Ratliff described him in a New York Times review of a Village Vanguard performance in 1997, Hersch is ''a master who plays it his way.'' 
 His determination to do things the Fred Hersch way has intensified considerably since the early '90s, when he made public his diagnosis of AIDS. Indeed, Hersch's range and prolificacy are such that he has needed half a dozen record labels for as many purposes: Nonesuch for Hersch the solo pianist; Sunnyside for his unorthodox quartet, the Pocket Orchestra; Palmetto for his quintet, the Fred Hersch Trio +2; Naxos for his hybrid jazz-classical concert music; various labels for his duet projects with singers as varied as Janis Siegel of the Manhattan Transfer, the veteran Brazilian vocalist Leny Andrade and the classical soprano Renee Fleming; and Concord for his concert at the Maybeck Recital Hall. 
 ''Fred is one of those rare musicians who can do many things well and never tries to sound like anyone else,'' says Seth Abramson, who books the Jazz Standard. ''It's interesting how many other pianists who come into the club remind me of Fred.'' That is to say, jazz has come around to doing it Hersch's way.
 While the sensibility he pioneered has flourished, Hersch himself has been heard from only sporadically over the past two years. The reason is that he has, on and off during this period, been gravely ill, so sick from AIDS and a severe bout of pneumonia that the people closest to him -- his partner, Scott Morgan, and his brother, Hank, as well as his parents -- thought, on the worst of his many very bad days, that they had seen him for the last time. Early in 2008, the H.I.V. virus migrated to his brain, and Hersch developed AIDS-related dementia. He lived for a time in mental and physical seclusion, hallucinating under the delusion that he had the power to control time and space and that everyone around him was plotting his demise. In fact, he came so close to dying that his paranoia seemed practically justified. At his sickest, late that year, Hersch fell into a coma and remained unconscious for a full two months. While incapacitated, he was bound to his bed in St. Vincent's Hospital in New York. He lost renal function and had to undergo regular dialysis, and he required a tracheotomy. He was unable to consume food or liquids of any kind, including water, for eight months. He could not swallow a thing or speak above a faint whisper. As a result of his prolonged unconsciousness and inactivity, he lost nearly all motor function in his hands and could not hold a pencil, let alone play the piano. 
 Today, at age 54, after many months of rehabilitation and therapy, grueling effort, effective medical care, an almost irrationally defiant refusal to accept his problems as anything less than temporary distractions from his music and a considerable amount of good luck, Hersch has achieved full recovery. Last year, he released two albums: a concert performance of his Pocket Orchestra CD, issued in the spring, and a solo piano record, ''Fred Hersch Plays Jobim,'' released (to immediate acclaim) in the summer. He has three completed works as yet unrecorded: a song cycle about art and photographic images, which he wrote with the poet Mary Jo Salter (some pieces of which were performed in a tribute to Hersch's music at Jazz at Lincoln Center a few years ago); a collection of jazz tunes honoring a quirky range of artists (musicians, writers, dancers) whom he admires; and a suite derived from themes by Tchaikovsky. On top of this explosion of Hersch music, a documentary about him -- ''Let Yourself Go: The Lives of Fred Hersch,'' directed by the German filmmaker Katja Duregger -- also came out last year. 
 In the fall, Hersch began work on a major new project, a long-form work that will deal explicitly with his recent traumas in words and music. The piece is an attempt to make art from the only life he knew for months, to give musical form to the dream images and cryptic narratives he still recalls vividly from his days and nights in a coma. 
 ''I'VE BEEN THROUGH a lot, and I want to make something of it, musically,'' Hersch said one afternoon in October. He had just finished giving a private lesson to a young pianist named Jeremy Siskind in the SoHo loft that has served as his professional headquarters and his New York residence for 30 years. For a while in the '80s, Hersch used the loft as a recording studio. In the corner of his parlor, a tiny, half-octagon-shaped room-within-a-room betrays its past as a drum chamber. He has brightened the almost lightless space by choosing splashy, Southwestern-ish pastel fabrics for the furnishings, and by placing, here and there, whimsical decorations like the toy piano on the top of the bookcase. Seated on the stool of the toy, prepared to play a four-handed duet, are painted carved-wood sculptures of a cat and a parrot. Facing the sofa is a 1921 Steinway grand piano at which Hersch, a jazz cat who has lived several lives, just gave a lesson to one of his many emulators. The piano -- the real one -- once belonged to Hersch's paternal grandmother. 
 ''I never wanted to be a classical pianist, because that takes a lot of discipline, and it takes chops, and I don't particularly like to practice, and I don't care very much about chops,'' Hersch said. ''To me, chops are just the ability to spin off and rattle off stuff. When you listen to somebody with a lot of chops, you say, 'Wow!' But you don't really come away feeling very much.'' 
 Hersch looked cheery in a pale-lemon, open-neck, wide-collar sport shirt from the '50s. He has a thing for vintage clothes, which provide him with a way to dress with flair, economically but without slavishness to the fashions of the season; as such, they connect loosely to his music, down to his work's winking humor and element of homage to musicians he admires.
 Growing up as a child music star in Cincinnati, Hersch was composing little pieces by age 7, and by the time he was 10, he was appearing weekly on a local Sunday-morning kids' program, ''The Skipper Ryle Show.'' ''The fact that he was on TV and had this prodigious talent gave him a lot of confidence,'' recalls his only sibling, Hank, an editor at Sports Illustrated who is about two years younger than his brother. ''In fact, he was always a bit of a prima donna.'' Also at age 10, Hersch composed a musical play about Peter Pan for his elementary school and rejected the faculty's demand that he cut or amend the music. 
 Around the same time, he entered a musical competition and showed up with only a short sketch; he announced that he would play an original composition titled ''A Windy Night,'' improvised most of it and won first prize. ''Fred,'' says his father, Henry Hersch, an attorney, ''was and is, um . . .'' -- pause -- ''a somewhat, I don't know . . .'' -- longer pause -- ''I don't want to use too loaded a word, but I'd say 'high-strung' or 'mercurial' or whatever. He has what some people call an artistic temperament.'' 
 After a term in general studies at Grinnell College in Iowa, Hersch dropped out and moved back to Cincinnati for a year and a half. He concentrated on his jazz education, gigging around town with local players, learning the music and its culture. Invigorated, he went back to college for music, enrolling in the New England Conservatory, where he studied under the jazz pianist and composer Jaki Byard. Graduating with honors, he moved to New York for the postgraduate education of sideman life. 
 Few jazz musicians in Hersch's generation rose as fast as he did. ''Fred was way out in front,'' says the tenor saxophonist Joe Lovano, a fellow Ohio native three years older than Hersch. ''A lot of the giants were still on the scene, and it was the great dream of the young cats like us to play with them, and Fred was one of the first ones to make that big jump.'' 
 When I first heard of Hersch, in the mid-'80s, he seemed to be in all the best places a jazz pianist could be -- playing one night with Joe Henderson, another night with Stan Getz or Lee Konitz or on his own at Bradley's, the club on University Place where many of the most respected pianists in jazz played and congregated to hear, support and pilfer from one another. Hank Jones, Tommy Flanagan and Jimmy Rowles all used Bradley's as their base, and each of them was at least 25 years older than Hersch. ''Fred is unique among pianists his age as a musician who really paid his dues as a jazz player,'' Ethan Iverson says. ''I can't even imagine what it was like to play night after night with Joe Henderson or Art Farmer and to play at Bradley's in front of the most horrifyingly heavy judges, juries and executioners. The way that pianists of my generation have learned about the music is through the sort of artificial world of records and scores, and not really natural assimilation. Fred absorbed the whole jazz tradition in the deepest possible way, and that's only the foundation of his playing. It was just his starting point. For a lot of other pianists, that would be the end point.'' 
 What I recall most vividly about Hersch's playing from his early years is its striking technical facility; I found him impressive -- though not as moving as I would find him years later. Over time, the physics of Hersch's musicianship inverted; he gave up impressing and worked, increasingly, to move. ''Jazz musicians didn't have stylists and publicists,'' Hersch said, sitting straight-backed on the sofa in his loft. ''You could hang out at the bar, and there was Art Blakey, smashed and hitting on the woman next to him. I wanted to play with the greatest players in the world, and I was probably pushy, but that's how I achieved what I did.''
 While he worked closely with other musicians, as jazz demands, he labored to protect the secret of his homosexuality. ''I was leading a dual life -- being gay and being a jazz musician and not knowing how those were going to meet,'' Hersch said. ''Jazz music, by its very nature, is intimate. You're trusting other people -- there's an intensity and shared emotion of creating something together, and I felt that if people knew that I was gay, they would mistake my intensity for sexual attraction. I didn't want it to stand in the way of achieving what I wanted to achieve. If you were sincere and you had talent and you're the kind of guy people want to play with, they didn't care what color you are -- you could be purple -- but gayness was a different matter.'' 
 Around the time Hersch recorded his first album as a trio leader, ''Horizons,'' for Concord, in the mid-'80s, he found out he was H.I.V.-positive. ''So my whole career as a leader has had this cloud over it,'' Hersch said. ''I was in that who-knows-what's-going-to-happen? land. A lot of my friends'' -- many of whom had full-blown AIDS -- ''were hopping off.'' 
 One afternoon, Hersch had a rehearsal scheduled with Stan Getz in Hersch's loft. After Getz rang Hersch's buzzer, Hersch found himself scooting to his bathroom to hide his boyfriend's toothbrush. ''That's when I realized, What the hell am I doing?'' he recalled. ''This is my home. This is my life. I decided I was going to open up about everything and just be myself, and the period of coming out was the beginning of my gaining confidence as a composer. I felt like I had to get it out there while I still had time.''
 Hersch paused abruptly, and said, ''Hold on -- I need to keep hydrated.'' He took a long gulp of iced tea and swallowed, with a bit of difficulty. ''I thought every album I did was going to be my last album,'' he went on. ''Being sick and knowing my time is precious has made me want to be totally myself in my music. I decided that I wasn't interested in playing hip music for hip cats. So I don't pander to an audience. I'm completely comfortable with what I do, and I just don't care what other people are doing.'' He coughed a bit of iced tea into a paper napkin. 
 ''It's kind of a miracle that I'm here at all,'' he said matter-of-factly. ''It's interesting -- I had to learn to work with a more limited palette, technically, as a pianist. At the same time, I felt stronger than ever, creatively. I found that I had more interesting things to say musically. I had more to express, and what I had to say didn't require pyrotechnics. The way I deal with the disease is, even though it has the power, I am not going to acknowledge that it has the power to mess with me.''
 In October, Hersch started working intently on what he sees as his ''most personal and probably most ambitious'' effort: ''the coma project.'' As he conceives of it at this early stage, it will be a concert-length piece with words, music and perhaps multimedia elements, to be performed by a midsize ensemble of a configuration to be determined as the music takes shape. Hersch is developing the new work with Herschel Garfein, the librettist and sometime composer best known for his collaboration with the composer Robert Aldridge on the opera ''Elmer Gantry.'' ''I was still alive for all that time I was unconscious, but the only life I had was in my dreams and nightmares, and they were incredibly strange and sometimes horrifying and sometimes beautiful,'' Hersch said. ''I was in a lot of physical pain and discomfort. I found out later that I had been restrained -- I was strapped to the bed, and the dreams I had were unbelievably weird and mysterious. I've been trying to come to terms with what I went through, and the best way I know is to try to express it in music.'' 
 What form will that music take? ''It was an incredibly bizarre and sometimes terrifying experience,'' Hersch said. ''There are no words to describe it. I'm hoping music can.'' 
 To many jazz fans, Fred Hersch is perhaps best known as a gay jazzman -- or the gay jazzman, despite the fact that the jazz world, like every sphere of human endeavor in and out of the arts, has always had a homosexual population. Indeed, Hersch's identity as a gay man -- and one with AIDS -- has shaped the way his music has been perceived by many people, including his own partner, Scott Morgan. On a cool Saturday morning last summer, Morgan relaxed on the deck of the nice vinyl-sided house he and Hersch have built on the side of a hill in the Pennsylvania woods, and he reflected on Hersch's image as a gay artist. ''One of the reasons that I was attracted to his music was not just his music but the fact that he was an out, gay musician early on -- I had him on a pedestal as a musician and as a person,'' said Morgan, who has studied both piano and voice and can play standards in the manner of a good rehearsal pianist. 
 ''It impressed me that he was willing to go against the grain from a career perspective,'' Morgan went on. ''He's got this incredible core of what he wants and who he is that is kind of amazing to me. I think Fred's music has an expressiveness and a lyricism that is his own. People say that's because he's gay, and I see how people can read into that and say, 'Well, I hear this sense of emotion, this depth, this lyricism' -- you hear some of that in some of his compositions. Clearly, we are gay, but our lives are not defined by the 'gay community' or by being gay.'' 
 If anything has inhibited the ability of Hersch's music to achieve the broader acceptance that, say, the work of the Marsalis brothers has achieved, it may be the subtlety and sheer loveliness of it -- its warmth, its quality of melancholy, traits that Americans conditioned to equate ''edginess'' and ''darkness'' with gravity can be slow to take as seriously as music that hits the ears more assaultively. His openness as a gay man is no help here and has surely conspired to feed hoary stereotypes of Hersch and his music as light stuff. As the pianist Jason Moran points out: ''Because Fred's playing is so beautiful, some people don't take it as seriously as they should. I think some people hear only flowers, but there's deep soil there. They don't really understand everything that's going on. Maybe if he gyrated and groaned and squinted his eyes and made it look hard when he played, they would get it. But Fred doesn't go for theatrics. Fred at the piano is like LeBron James on the basketball court. He's perfection.''
 Hersch, among the most sensitive of jazz pianists, is acutely sensitive to the proposition that his sensitivity makes his music ''gay.'' I took up the subject on a walk with him along the gravel path behind his country house. We heard hummingbirds in the beech trees and got to talking about nature and the conception of beauty as a value in gay culture. ''I wouldn't quite say that's bull, but it's a very dangerous idea,'' Hersch said, slowing his gait. ''The compliment I get the most often is, 'My, you sounded really beautiful.' I used to think, I want them to say something else, because I felt like that was a kind of, Oh, yeah, you're gay -- so of course you play lyrically and you're one of the great ballad players. Of course. But now I just don't care at all what people think. I think music should be beautiful. There's nothing wrong with beauty. I'm attracted to beauty and lyricism, but I don't play the way I do because I'm gay. I play the way I do because I'm Fred.'' 
 If his music is sometimes mistaken for soft, its composer never is. Among musicians and other professionals in jazz circles, Hersch's clarity of purpose and fierceness of will have contributed to his reputation as a fearsome taskmaster. Jo Lawry, the Pocket Orchestra vocalist, remembers as the ''foundation stone'' of her relationship with Hersch his phone call to her the day after he first saw her sing. Hersch told her that the way she swayed to the beat onstage was a distraction from the music and that she was ''jumping all over the place'' in her improvisations rather than fully developing her musical ideas. 
 At a Pocket Orchestra rehearsal in his loft, which I attended early last summer, Hersch ran the group through a piece called ''Free Flying'' at a vertiginous clip. The piece called for Lawry to precision-scat a wildly complicated melody in unison with the piano, and she flew through it. ''Now let's do it at a preposterous speed,'' Hersch announced; the group did, and Lawry got through it surprisingly well. ''Now, let's do it even faster, and I'm not going to play the melody with you anymore,'' he said, and Lawry survived being pushed beyond reasonable limits. 
 Janis Siegel, with whom Hersch has recorded several albums, has come to rely on Hersch's scrutiny and candor. ''Fred has pushed me to become a better musician, a better singer -- in ways, a better person,'' she says. ''He doesn't have time to goof around. If I want some straight-ahead feedback, I go to him. People will tell you what you want to hear, or they'll be not-quite truthful, because they don't want to hurt your feelings, but Fred's allegiance is to the music.''
 In the recording studio, ''Fred always knows what he wants,'' says his longtime engineer, Michael MacDonald, with whom Hersch has made more than 40 albums. ''If you ask him a question, he'll never say, 'Oh, I don't know.' He always has an idea.'' Twenty-five years ago, MacDonald says: ''Fred wasa petulant, stubborn, incredibly talented egomaniac eccentric who would dominate a recording session. He was always playing brilliantly, but it was a whole lot more egocentric. Since his illnesses, he's matured musically and also emotionally, in saying, 'Everything I do has to have meaning and has to be my best game, because I don't have a lot of time.' I've seen a huge change in him with the illnesses -- just the stop fooling around, stop wasting time.
 ''Fred's ego is enormous,'' MacDonald adds, dragging out the word. ''But when he's sitting at the piano, you don't hear the ego. You only hear his humanity.'' 
 HERSCH PLAYED a handful of gigs in New York last year as he grew stronger, and one was a run at the Jazz Standard with the Pocket Orchestra, to introduce the group's first CD. In addition to Hersch's piano, the instrumentation of this orchestra includes trumpet, percussion and voice. Like a great many things in Fred Hersch's life and work, the Pocket Orchestra defies expectations. 
 ''He looks good,'' said Fred's brother, Hank, who left a busy late night at work to go to the Jazz Standard with their mother, Flo Hoffheimer (who is divorced from her sons' father and remarried). Now 80, she flew in from Cincinnati that day for the occasion. The club was packed. Twenty or 30 people without reservations huddled outside the entrance hopefully, and the house manager waved some of them into the bar area as Hersch shuffled onto the bandstand with the Pocket Orchestra. 
 As he took his seat at the piano, Hersch fluffed the back of the silky mushroom brown shirt he was wearing, so the bottom of the fabric draped over the bench as the tails of a tuxedo would. He glanced at the audience for a second when he did this, and gave a little smile. He shook his shoulders loose and wiggled his bottom into a position he liked. Then he began to play, constructing a tight pattern of dense, repeating chords. He lowered his head slowly till it hovered just half a foot from the top of the piano, and he appeared to shrink into his clothes. Hersch, slim all his adult life, was about 15 pounds under his usual weight. His cheeks were hollow, and his skin was gray, though his eyes were bright and his playing was strong. In fact, in its emotive urgency, expressive range and beauty, Hersch's music had rarely been so potent. 
 After the second number, a lightly bopping composition called ''Lee's Dream,'' which Hersch wrote in tribute to the alto saxophonist Lee Konitz, Hersch's mother leaned back in the corner banquette where she was sitting with Hank and a few others, and she said, to no one in particular, ''Fred was such a fat little thing.'' 
 At the end of the set, she elaborated: ''When Fred was a boy, he was the most beautiful, chubby little thing you ever laid eyes on -- he was a blimp with appendages. And one day when he was 3 years old, I was pushing him around in a cart in the grocery store, and a woman -- a stranger, I had never met her before -- saw Fred, and she stopped in her tracks, and she looked at Fred, and she said, 'And who do you belong to?' 
 ''And Fred looked at her, and he said: 'I don't belong to anybody. I belong to myself.' 
 ''That was Fred,'' his mother said, ''and it still is.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM21)
 Retuned: Hersch at his home in New York City. Post-coma, he has released two albums and completed three other works. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE FRIEDLANDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (88%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); POP & ROCK (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); HISTORY (74%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (74%); SONG WRITING (74%); CONSERVATISM (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2010



940 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: One Year Down, a Presidency Yet to Go: Carter's Sunny Day

BYLINE: By JAMES FALLOWS

 BODY:
THINGS were tough as Jimmy Carter prepared for his 1978 State of the Union address, one year into his term. But they seemed, strangely, hopeful. The president's big domestic initiative that year was a national energy policy. The gas-station lines and first-ever spike in fuel prices in the mid-1970s made this a genuine emergency. He hadn't yet gotten the whole plan through, but the previous summer he had signed legislation creating the Department of Energy and begun imposing standards that, even after he was gone, kept improving the fuel efficiency of American cars, buildings and factories. 
 His big foreign policy initiative was the Panama Canal treaty, to restore Panama's sovereignty over the Canal Zone with safeguards for the canal's operation. Although the opponents were fierce, employing what we would now call ''tea party'' tactics, they were a minority. Mr. Carter had John Wayne and other tough guys to speak on the treaty's behalf -- not to mention 61 Democratic votes in the Senate and a more than 2-to-1 Democratic majority under Tip O'Neill in the House. 
 Just before the speech, the president had traveled across four continents in a marathon world tour. Yes, there were glitches, like a toast in Tehran praising the soon-to-be-deposed shah of Iran as ''an island of stability'' in a troubled area of the world. (I remember -- I wrote it!) But I also know firsthand that President Carter was warmly and admiringly received from India to Brazil for his emphasis on a new foreign policy built on traditional American respect for human rights. 
 Inflation was going down. Job creation was going up. So as time came to put the speech together, everyone involved dared think about what else the administration could do, after such a good start. ''There is all across our land a growing sense of peace and a sense of common purpose,'' Mr. Carter said in his address -- a sentence I cannot remember writing and in retrospect can hardly believe was uttered at all. ''For the first time in a generation we are not haunted by a major international crisis'' and therefore have ''a rare and precious opportunity to address persistent problems'' that otherwise would just get worse. And so he laid out his bright plans, which included making government activities more transparent and reducing the role of lobbyists.
 One year tells us something about a presidency and its capacities. But a lot can change after that. --JAMES FALLOWS, chief speechwriter for President Jimmy Carter

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (54%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PANAMA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); IRAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010



941 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: One Year Down, a Presidency Yet to Go: Bill Clinton's Narrow Victories

BYLINE: By DEE DEE MYERS

 BODY:
Barack Obama, reeling from the Democratic defeat in the Massachusetts Senate race, isn't the first president to get an unwelcome anniversary gift a year after taking office. On Jan. 20, 1994, Attorney General Janet Reno announced that, at President Bill Clinton's request, she had appointed Robert Fiske as special counsel to investigate the Whitewater case. What we didn't know then was that seven months later, Mr. Fiske would be replaced by Ken Starr, whose investigation would ultimately lead to the president's impeachment. But what those of us on the Clinton staff were learning fast after 12 tumultuous months on the job was how little control we had over our own unfolding drama. The cockiness of the campaign was giving way to a humility imposed by history. 
 Events large and small -- and so often out of our hands -- could unfurl without warning, or sometimes over time, to upend our day, alter our political fortunes and change the world. In that first year, they often did. 
 Mr. Clinton's first budget went to Congress in June. A plan to invest in jobs and growth, cut wasteful spending and raise taxes on the rich, it passed both houses with nary a vote to spare -- or a single Republican. We celebrated at the time, but victory was short-lived. Eighteen months later, Democrats lost both the House and Senate. Still, the president's economic strategy proved successful, fuelling the longest economic expansion in American history.
 In September, Mr. Clinton presided over the signing of peace accords, and a historic handshake, between Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel and Yasir Arafat, the leader of the Palestinian Authority. Even hard-bitten Clinton advisers like Rahm Emanuel, now President Obama's chief of staff, were moved to tears, and reviews were almost universally positive. But two years later, a deranged opponent of the plan assassinated Rabin, and over time, progress stalled.
 As the people in the Obama administration look back over the first year, and forward to the future, they should do all they can to move their agenda. But they would be wise to remember that forces more powerful than their best-laid plans will shape their fate. Today's failure may be tomorrow's success, or vice versa. And history will have the last word. -- DEE DEE MYERS, press secretary for President Bill Clinton

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HISTORY (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAHM EMANUEL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010



942 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: One Year Down, a Presidency Yet to Go: Bush Faces the New World Order

BYLINE: By DANIEL McGROARTY

 BODY:
As the candidate of hope and change, President Obama has doubtless spent some private time around his first anniversary in office wondering whether he shouldn't have been more specific about the kind of change he'd hoped for. If a single year has so transformed his political fortunes, imagine what cannot be imagined in the next three ahead. 
 If it's any comfort, the phenomenon isn't new to the American presidency. To quote the favorite political philosopher of the president I served, it's deja vu all over again. Travel back to January 1990, as President George Bush -- no ''H. W.'' needed back then -- prepared for his first State of the Union address. The invasion of Panama, which returned democracy to that nation by way of the barrel speakers of a boom-box, had officially ended after 23 days. The Revolutions of 1989 across Europe -- in the speech, the president told of a Czech Everyman reciting in accented English the words of the Declaration of Independence -- served to underscore the president's claim that the State of our Union was strong. 
 And why not: The ''In-Box President,'' as that month's Atlantic Monthly called him, was sailing along with a 63 percent approval rating -- a number few in the White House uttered aloud, and never in the presence of the president. As we rehearsed the speech in the White House Family Theater, our focus was on how to ''bolt in the rabbit'' -- as in what the magician produces from his hat -- which was the droll code name coined by the national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, for the critical, close-hold section of the speech that dealt with reducing our conventional forces in Europe. 
 The other major issue was whether to add a reference near the close of the speech to the president's newest grandchild. In a podium break, the famously reticent president, almost allergic to the use of the pronoun ''I,'' remarked, ''maybe it's O.K. -- it's just a grandfather talking.'' The phrase clicked, and it was added to the teleprompter text. Both the grandson and the arms control treaty would receive more attention from the president than any of the domestic policy initiatives contained in his speech. 
 What we didn't see then from the high ground of Year One were any of the signal events of Year Two. The ill-fated deficit summit meeting at Andrews Air Force Base -- a closed-door exercise that yielded the too-clever-by-180-I.Q.-points ''tax revenue enhancements'' as a substitute for the president's ''read my lips'' no-new-taxes pledge -- was three months away. In six months, Saddam Hussein would roll tanks into Kuwait. In eight months, we would hit what economists would later pinpoint as the beginning of a recession, at roughly the time the White House national security team was focused on reuniting East and West Germany. Working in the White House was a daily lesson in politics and policy, and the critical difference between the two.
 Seen through the lens of 20 years' time, what's telling now is the capriciousness of what we took to be the issues that would define a presidency. For more than half a century, no man or woman living has had as much power to shape the world as an American president. And yet the world retains an even greater power to challenge, confound and surprise. -- DANIEL McGROARTY, speechwriter and special assistant to President George H. W. Bush 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (68%); AIR FORCES (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (52%); ARMED FORCES (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010



943 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: One Year Down, a Presidency Yet to Go: Bush's Full Plate

BYLINE: By KAREN HUGHES

 BODY:
THEY served pineapple upside-down cake for dessert that snowy evening at Camp David, the last weekend of President George W. Bush's first year in office. I remember thinking it seemed fitting. ''What a year,'' President Bush said during dinner. ''Sometimes it seems like seven,'' replied Condoleezza Rice, his national security advisor. But no one else said much. The emotions had been too raw, too intense. The sudden horror of Sept. 11 had changed the course of the presidency, making America's national security the president's relentless focus. ''Continued vigilance'' were the watchwords, as we fully expected additional attacks. 
 We had seen the president's strong leadership as he rallied the country, Congress and each of us to confront the threat. ''Let me tell you how to do your job today,'' I remember him saying to me early one morning, directing me to plan an announcement. We had watched Mr. Bush make the most profound decision a commander in chief can make, committing American lives to battle in Afghanistan. We had witnessed the fall of the Taliban and worked to calm the panic of anthrax attacks. 
 As President Obama is learning, the first year of a presidency is one in which the rhetoric of campaigning collides with the hard reality of governing. As President Bush took office, the economy was falling into recession; we passed tax cuts to try to stimulate jobs. We had celebrated moments of great achievement: overwhelming bipartisan approval for education reforms. We had wrestled with the profound moral ramifications of stem cell research. And we had experienced the thrills of the presidency: the drama of the first meeting with President Vladimir Putin of Russia; the visit by Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, which involved a fireworks display so spectacular that Condi Rice joked we could be ''testing the missile defense system.''
 President Obama often seems to suggest that his administration is facing challenges more difficult than others did. He might look back on the first words of President Bush's first State of the Union address: ''As we gather tonight, our nation is at war, our economy is in recession and the civilized world faces unprecedented dangers. Yet the state of our Union has never been stronger.''
 -- KAREN HUGHES, counselor to President George W. Bush

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); APPROVALS (74%); TALIBAN (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAX LAW (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (63%); ANTHRAX (51%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%); EDUCATION REFORM (50%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010



944 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Options for Airlifting Haitian Patients

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN and LIZ ROBBINS

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Three days after the United States military suspended medical evacuations of critically injured earthquake victims from Haiti, officials in Washington continued to search for ways to resume the flights on Saturday, including looking to states beyond Florida, which has taken in most of the patients.
 The military flights -- usually C-130s carrying Haitians with spinal cord injuries, burns and other serious wounds -- ended on Wednesday, and even as officials worked through the weekend to get them started again, there was confusion over why they had been halted in the first place.
 ''There has been no policy position from anyone to suspend evacuee flights,'' said Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman. ''This situation arose as we started to run out of room.''
 Florida officials, including the governor, offered other reasons. 
 John Cherry, the external affairs director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, said that the state was willing to take patients. But he said that shortly after Gov. Charlie Crist asked the federal government to coordinate flight plans and to ensure that the state would eventually be reimbursed for assisting the federal effort, it was informed that the flights had been stopped.
 ''There's a lack of coordinated response from the federal government on this,'' Mr. Cherry said in a telephone interview on Saturday. ''We don't know who's in charge. They take it up their chain and it seems like things are going to a black hole. We're saying, 'Let's coordinate.' ''
 Military officials said on Friday that the flights had been stopped because of a dispute between Florida hospitals about the payment for patient care, and because the hospitals did not have enough capacity. But the military appeared to back away from that assertion on Saturday.
 ''For us to do our mission, it's obvious we have to have a destination to fly them to,'' Capt. Kevin Aandahl, a spokesman for the United States Transportation Command said on Saturday. ''The capability exists, it's just a matter of getting all the right people on the chain all lined up.''
 It was not clear who or what agency was responsible for the interruption of flights or the chain of events that led to it. Sterling Ivey, a spokesman for Mr. Crist, said the governor's request for federal help might have caused ''confusion.''
 In a statement released on Saturday, Mr. Crist emphasized what he said was the contribution his state continued to make to the Haitian earthquake victims. 
 ''Last night, between 60 and 80 Haitian orphans arrived at Miami International Airport,'' Mr. Crist said. ''Let me be clear -- at no time has Florida closed our doors to those impacted by the earthquake in Haiti.''
 He added, ''This state remains committed to this effort, knowing that many Floridians are working 20-hour shifts to meet the enormous challenge.''
 Hospitals in Florida have treated more than 500 earthquake victims so far, the military said, including an infant who was pulled from the rubble with a fractured skull and ribs. Other states have also taken patients, and those flights have been suspended as well, officials said. 
 Florida officials said part of the problem was that medical officials were not always advised ahead of time of patient conditions, making it difficult to prepare for care.
 ''They began coming in at a pretty rapid rate,'' Mr. Cherry said. ''We began to see that these people were coming in with critical injuries that may require longer-term care in hospitals. We've been continually asking the federal government, 'What can we expect in the future?' ''
 Part of that expectation was a guarantee of financial reimbursement, he said. ''Eighteen days into this we have no guarantee of anything,'' Mr. Cherry said.
 Florida officials also expressed reservations about medical facilities in South Florida, where most of the injured were taken, being able to care for residents and visitors, especially in the week leading up to the Super Bowl on Feb. 7 in Miami. But the officials said there were ample hospital beds elsewhere in the state.
 The suspension of the medical flights could be catastrophic for patients, said Dr. Barth A. Green, the a founder of Project Medishare for Haiti, a nonprofit group affiliated with the University of Miami's Miller School of Medicine that had been evacuating about two dozen patients a day.
 ''People are dying in Haiti because they can't get out,'' Dr. Green said. 
 United States government agencies in Haiti, however, said they were working with aid groups in trying to expand capacity at both the United States Navy hospital ship Comfort, docked offshore, and at facilities throughout the country that were not damaged. Only the most critically ill were being airlifted.
 According to the White House, there have been 435 earthquake patients airlifted to the United States, 18,500 treated by Health and Human Services personnel on the ground in Haiti, and 19,000 treated at the Comfort, with 635 currently there. 
 However, Mr. Ivey said that the Florida Department of Health reported the state's hospitals had treated 526 earthquake victims: 413 in South Florida, 76 in the Orlando area and 37 in the Tampa area.
 Mr. Crist's request to the federal government did not indicate how much the medical care was costing his state, but the number and complexity of the cases could put the total in the millions of dollars. The expenditure comes at a time when the state is suffering economically and Mr. Crist, a Republican, is locked in a tough primary battle for his party's nomination to face Mel Martinez, the Democratic incumbent, in this year's Senate race. 
 ''Recently, we learned that plans were under way to move between 30 to 50 critically ill patients a day for an indefinite period of time,'' Mr. Crist wrote in a letter to Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services. ''Florida does not have the capacity to support such an operation.''
 A spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services said the decision to suspend the flights had been made by the military, not the federal health department. A military spokesman said that the military had ended the flights because hospitals were becoming unwilling to take patients.
 ''The places they were being taken, without being specific, were not willing to continue to receive those patients without a different arrangement being worked out by the government to pay for the care,'' said Maj. James Lowe, the deputy chief of public affairs for the transportation command. 
 Florida officials, meanwhile, said the state's hospitals had not refused to take more patients. Jeanne Eckes-Roper, the health and medical chairwoman of the domestic security task force for the South Florida region, said she had requested only that new patients be taken to other areas of the state, like Tampa.
 The Health and Human Services spokeswoman, Gretchen Michael, who works for the assistant secretary for preparedness and response, said the agency was reviewing Mr. Crist's request for financial assistance. The request would involve activating the National Disaster Medical System, which is usually used in domestic disasters and which pays for victims' care. 
 Some of the patients being airlifted from Haiti are American citizens and some are insured or eligible for insurance. But Haitians who are not legal residents of the United States can qualify for Medicaid only if they are given so-called humanitarian parole -- in which someone is allowed into the United States temporarily because of an emergency -- by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
 Only 34 people have been given humanitarian parole for medical reasons, said Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security. The National Disaster Medical System, if activated, would cover the costs of caring for patients regardless of their legal status.
 Some hospitals have made their own arrangements to accommodate victims of the earthquake, which occurred on Jan. 12. Jackson Health System, the public hospital system in Miami, treated 117 patients, 6 of whom were still in critical condition, said Jennifer Piedra, a spokeswoman. The system has established the Haiti's Children Fund to cover the costs of treating pediatric earthquake victims. 
 In the aftermath of the earthquake, Haitian medical facilities were quickly overwhelmed. Since then, medical help has come in the form of mobile hospitals and other aid. Major Lowe said that as medical care had become available in Haiti, the need for the flights had declined significantly. But Dr. Green and nonprofit groups with a presence in Haiti said the need for evacuations remained dire. 
 ''Right now we have in the queue dozens of paraplegics, burn victims and other patients that need to be evacuated,'' Dr. Green said. ''And other facilities are asking us to coordinate the evacuation of their patients.''
 A spokeswoman for Partners in Health, a Boston charity with doctors and nurses in Haiti, said the group had a backlog of patients, many with head, spine or pelvic injuries, who needed surgery that could not be performed there.
 Major Lowe said patients could still be evacuated in private planes, but Dr. Green said medically equipped planes were very expensive and generally could carry only one or two patients.
 Federal officials could not provide the total number of earthquake patients airlifted to the United States, but Florida seemed to have received the bulk of them.
 In his letter, Mr. Crist outlined his state's efforts to support the rescue effort, helping both the healthy and the sick streaming into the state. ''Florida's health care system is quickly reaching saturation,'' he wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (73%); BURN INJURIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); CLOSINGS (63%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



945 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Northern Ireland Power-Sharing Talks Go On

DATELINE: HILLSBOROUGH, Northern Ireland 

 BODY:
(Reuters) -- Rival parties in Northern Ireland cast aside a Friday deadline set by the British and Irish prime ministers, negotiating into Saturday in an effort to avoid the collapse of their power-sharing government. 
 A breakdown in talks between the predominantly Roman Catholic party, Sinn Fein, and the mainly Protestant Democratic Unionist Party would almost certainly lead to an election in Northern Ireland, a British province. 
 The issue of transferring police and justice powers from London to Belfast, the provincial capital, has raised old fault lines between the province's Protestant majority and its Catholic minority that led to nearly three decades of violence, which cost 3,600 lives.
 Prime Ministers Gordon Brown of Britain and Brian Cowen of Ireland flew in earlier in the week to try to broker a deal. They left on Wednesday, saying both sides had until Friday to find a solution or the British and Irish governments would publish theirs. 
 ''I think there has been progress over the last number of days, but there are still matters which need to be resolved, which we need to be certain about,'' Peter Robinson, who is the province's first minister and the unionist party's leader, said Friday.
 ''We are not interested in deadlines, not interested in threats from anyone,'' he said. ''If the deal is not right, it won't be done. If the deal is right, it will be done.''
 The leader of Sinn Fein, Gerry Adams, said that the unionist leaders had been ''focused'' and ''well-mannered'' during discussions and that the quest for a deal was continuing.
 ''We don't have an agreement, but it's not over until it's over,'' he said. ''We are at a fairly sensitive and defining point in all this and hopefully we will get the business done.''
 A deal on devolving police and justice powers would give Northern Ireland its first justice minister and would be one of the boldest steps since the 1998 Good Friday peace agreement, which ended decades of violence.
 Sinn Fein, which eventually wants to see the province united with Ireland, has pressed for an early date for the transfer of the powers most associated with British control during the years of violence. It has accused the unionists -- who want Northern Ireland to remain part of Britain -- of stalling. The unionist party denies the charge.
 In addition to the involvement of Britain and Ireland, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has phoned various principals. 
 The mood at Hillsborough Castle outside Belfast, where the talks are taking place, has swung during the week from optimism to pessimism and back again.
 On Friday, the United States economic envoy to Northern Ireland, Declan Kelly, said the Obama administration believed that the sides were ''tantalizingly close'' to a deal.
 Mr. Brown said Wednesday that he believed it was feasible for the Northern Ireland Assembly to consider plans on devolving police and justice powers in March and to implement them ''around the beginning of May.''
 Although he and Mr. Cowen set the Friday deadline, a British government spokesman said: ''Talks are continuing between the parties and the government will review the outcome of these talks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EASTER SEASON (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RELIGION (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (76%); GORDON BROWN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); BRIAN COWEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); IRELAND (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



946 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CBS) THE 52ND ANNUAL GRAMMY AWARDS ''Music's Biggest Night'' pulls out the stops with performances by Jamie Foxx and T-Pain with Slash and Doug E. Fresh, and Drake, Eminem and Lil Wayne with Travis Barker; a tribute to the guitar virtuoso Les Paul by Jeff Beck and Imelda May; a collaboration between the cast of the Broadway-bound musical ''American Idiot'' and Green Day, the band whose songs make up the show's score; a 3-D salute to Michael Jackson with Celine Dion, Jennifer Hudson, Smokey Robinson, Carrie Underwood and Usher; and a fund-raising segment on behalf of Haiti with Mary J. Blige and Andrea Bocelli. The acts whose records are the five album-of-the-year nominees -- Beyonce, above, the Black Eyed Peas, Lady Gaga, the Dave Matthews Band and Taylor Swift -- will also take the stage at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. T-Pain and Keith Urban lead the nominations with four each, followed by Mr. Foxx and Eminem with three, and Drake with two. 
 10 A.M. (5) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Guests include Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana. 
 11 A.M. (TV One) WASHINGTON WATCH WITH ROLAND MARTIN Secretary of Education Arne Duncan is a guest. 
 1 P.M. (CNN) FAREED ZAKARIA GPS Lawrence H. Summers, the director of the president's National Economic Council, discusses the economy and Ben S. Bernanke, the head of the Federal Reserve; Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki of Iran talks about his country's nuclear ambitions and the disputed election in June of last year. 
 7 P.M. (NBC) DATELINE NBC A class of medical residents recounts yearlong experiences at Arkansas Children's Hospital. Keith Morrison investigates a jewelry-smuggling ring.
 7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES The high-flying snowboarder Shaun White reminisces about his infancy, when he needed heart surgery; the boyhood skateboarding accident that nearly ended his career; and the view from the top -- as well as the loneliness that can occur when you're the best at what you do. In another segment Lara Logan spends time with a Green Beret unit as it trains a group of Afghan soldiers and faces the Taliban.
 7 P.M. (TV One) FAIR GAME?Mario Van Peebles asks the question, ''Are we, in fact, in a postracial era?'' and tries to glean the answer in interviews with Chris Rock; Spike Lee; Ice Cube; the author and professor Cornel West; the basketball star Amare Stoudemire; Mayor Cory Booker of Newark; Sean Combs, a k a Diddy; Jamie Foxx; and Mr. Peebles's father, Melvin Van Peebles.
 7 P.M. (HBO) A FAMILY IS A FAMILY IS A FAMILY: A ROSIE O'DONNELL CELEBRATION They come in all shapes and sizes, but the common denominator is love, says Ms. O'Donnell, left, who interviews children about what makes their families unique. She also addresses her separation from her longtime partner, Kelli Carpenter. The family portraits are interspersed with animated interludes and musical performances, by, among others, Ziggy Marley; his mother, Rita; and his sister Cedelia singing ''I Love You, Too.'' 
 7:20 P.M. (ESPN) N.F.L. PRO BOWL: N.F.C. VS. A.F.C. Conference all-stars face off in an exhibition game at the Sun Life Stadium in Miami.
 8 P.M. (Fox) THE SIMPSONS Homer blows off a date with Marge to buy a $1 million lottery ticket. Chris Martin of Coldplay appears as himself.
 8 P.M. (TLC) 19 KIDS & COUNTING: SPECIAL DUGGAR DELIVERY Why stop at 18 when you can add one more? Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar welcome a baby, Josie, into the flock. 
 9 P.M. (13, 49) EMMA Romola Garai stars in the conclusion of this ''Masterpiece Classic'' presentation of Austen's novel about the rich, beautiful and clueless Emma Woodhouse, whose matchmaking attempts go disastrously awry, and whose own love life doesn't fare much better. Jonny Lee Miller plays her tenderhearted friend, Mr. Knightley, who can't quite hide his affection for her despite his occasional scoldings. 
 9 P.M. (NBC) SNL PRESENTS: SPORTS ALL-STARS Jason Sudeikis and Will Forte step into character as the fictional ''ESPN Classic'' commentators Pete Twinkle and Greg Stink in this showcase featuring the athletes Peyton Manning, Derek Jeter, LeBron James, Michael Jordan, Tom Brady and Charles Barkley. 
 9 P.M. (HBO) BIG LOVE Bill Henrickson (Bill Paxton) takes extreme measures to save his candidacy for state senate when an audit uncovers more than one Henrickson wife on the payroll. Sarah (Amanda Seyfried) tries out motherhood with someone else's child. Alby (Matt Ross) can't get Roman (Harry Dean Stanton) out of his mind. And Bill sends his son (Douglas Smith) packing. Blame Margene (Ginnifer Goodwin). KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); BASKETBALL (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); SMUGGLING (68%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (64%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%); TALIBAN (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); EXTREME SPORTS (61%); SKATEBOARDING (50%); SNOWBOARDING (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: KEITH URBAN (79%); LIL WAYNE (78%); MICHAEL JACKSON (73%); LADY GAGA (58%); TAYLOR SWIFT (58%); CELINE DION (58%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (58%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (58%); CARRIE UNDERWOOD (58%); EVAN BAYH (51%); CHRIS ROCK (50%); ARNE DUNCAN (50%); BEN BERNANKE (50%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (50%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



947 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''The investor in America sits at the bottom of the food chain.''
 John C. Bogle, founder and former chairman of the Vanguard Group. Some analysts and investors say banks like Citigroup, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley are rewarding their employees at shareholders' expense. 
 ''I'm saddened to see a company known for building good things make some unnecessary mistakes.''
 James P. Womack, an author and expert on Toyota's manufacturing methods. Toyota is temporarily stopping production and sales of eight models, after two major recalls since November, while it tries to fix a problem with their accelerator pedals.
 ''If we don't hold Chairman Bernanke accountable, what precedent are we setting for future regulators?''
 Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the top Republican on the Senate Banking Committee. The Senate gave Ben S. Bernanke a second term as head of the Federal Reserve after critics excoriated the bank's conduct in the years leading up to the financial crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (72%); BEN BERNANKE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010



948 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: One Year Down, a Presidency Yet to Go: Ronald Reagan, A Man With a Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD V. ALLEN

 BODY:
Political platforms are usually written for election campaign purposes, then quickly scrapped after a presidential election. But the 1980 Republican platform bore a simple five-word title: ''Family, Neighborhood, Work, Peace, Freedom,'' and was planned and written with the purpose of creating an agenda for a Reagan administration on Day One, Jan. 20, 1981. My signal memory of Reagan's first year in office is that we were actually able to stick to the plan that he insisted we put in place. 
 Coupled with the basic policy framework, Reagan's was one of the most carefully planned presidential transitions in modern political history, replete with teams of ''Reaganauts'' dispatched to each department and agency in the days following the election. Staffing lists were compiled, and presidential and subcabinet appointments were made swiftly, background and vetting checks completed and requisite Senate hearings scheduled. 
 The plan from the outset was to put in place the Reagan economic program as the major priority and foundation for every major initiative, domestic and foreign. Tax cuts were high on the president's agenda, and work began, quietly and in the background for the most part, on a huge ''get well'' program for the nation's defenses. 
 While Reagan received an immediate boost with the Inauguration Day release of the American hostages in Iran, it's doubtful that the incident altered his approach. In his first press conference he declared that the Soviets ''reserve the right to lie and cheat'' to achieve their goals, setting some teeth on edge. He knew precisely what he wanted to say and made a point not to reveal it to staff in two preparatory sessions.
 There were, of course, unexpected moments that first year: Alexander Haig's bizarre behavior as secretary of state; David Stockman's effort, as budget director, to undercut the president's budget; and, of course, the assassination attempt outside the Washington Hilton in March. Remarkably, Reagan recovered from all these.
 One other thing stands out: Reagan's ability to get along with Democrats, something he had shown he could do as governor of California. Although the House of Representatives was controlled by Democrats, the president managed to pass his tax reduction package. He also found a way, through one-on-one sessions with senatorial opponents of both parties, to gain Congressional approval of the sale of Awacs radar planes to Saudi Arabia. By 1991, the deployed aircraft were a decisive military asset in the Persian Gulf war.
 As Reagan's debut year came to a close, I remember thinking how remarkable it was that he had managed to stay the course. Having watched subsequent presidencies lurch in response to political pressure, I find the president's first-year feat even more remarkable today. -- RICHARD V. ALLEN, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and national security advisor to President Ronald Reagan

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGETS (72%); RADAR SYSTEMS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); ASSASSINATION (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); HOSTAGE TAKING (65%); DESERT STORM (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

 
