

601 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; LIFE'S WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Dear Valued Worker, You're Fired

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN. 
E-mail: belkin@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE woman was all but led out the door in handcuffs. A security guard by her side, she was told to leave the building immediately. She'd been crying, and her mascara was running, but she wasn't permitted into the restroom to splash water onto her face, so she walked past her (former) colleagues with raccoon eyes.
 Her offense? She lost her job, laid off in the wave of dismissals on Wall Street at an investment firm you have been reading about. (She did not want her name or her employer's name used because she is still haggling over money she says she is owed.)
 ''There are some very wrong ways to fire people,'' said Rachelle Canter, who has spent 20 years in executive outplacement as president of RJC Associates in San Francisco, working with people who have been fired, and companies that are firing. 
 Treating a downsizing victim like a criminal, she said, is one of those ways. Yes, sometimes it is in the interest of company security to ask an employee to leave right away, she said, but it can be done politely. 
 So there are wrong ways to dismiss someone. But is there really a right way to do it?
 It is a particularly relevant question in an economy like this one, where the news is filled with people losing their jobs. New York City is expected to lose 33,000 finance jobs this year, according to the Independent Budget Office in Manhattan. 
 Retail chains are closing stores -- Starbucks alone will shutter 600 locations around the country, meaning as many as 12,000 workers will lose their jobs. 
 Manufacturing is taking a hit. General Motors announced last week that it was closing four plants, and reducing its salary costs by 20 percent.
 All those statistics eventually become individuals taking their final walk through their workplace. For every person who is fired, there is someone whose job it is to fire them, and those who have dismissed colleagues say it is something they dread.
 And it is a job made more complicated by the fact that most people who fire others are figuring it out as they go along. Not that such knowledge makes it easier if you are the one being let go. 
 If you find yourself being fired, the most important thing to remember (besides that it's actually O.K. to cry) is that you'll be in shock, and you won't be thinking straight, so don't feel the need to ask every question then and there.
 You should make sure to leave the room knowing how to contact someone who can answer your questions later on, when you have a chance to calm down. Try not to become defensive or argumentative; if there are issues to be disputed, you can do that later. 
 The same general advice applies to those charged with doing the firings, namely, keep things short and calm. 
 ''The goal is to do it in a way that you don't feel awful about yourself, you treated someone with respect,'' said Donna Flagg, who has fired more than two dozen people during her decade in retail sales, and is now president of the Krysalis Group, a business and management consulting firm. ''I don't think anyone is actually good at it,'' she said.
 When those with experience were asked for the dos and don'ts of how to fire an employee, they all agreed on one thing: don't ever use the word ''fire.''
 ''It's time for us to part company,'' is Ms. Flagg's preferred phrasing.
 Barry Maher, a business consultant who was fired from his first job after two hours when a more qualified candidate walked through the door, prefers the phrase ''let you go.'' Or, as one of his clients says when breaking dismissal news, ''It's time to help you succeed elsewhere.''
 There are two kinds of exit conversations, those that are personal (an employee has done something to warrant dismissal) and those that are not (the company is foundering or merging and someone has to go).
 Of the two, the first is far more complicated. The dismissal is in fact a direct attack on a worker's worth. There is no ego-shielding veil, like the economy, to hide behind.
 Dr. Canter, who has a Ph.D. in social psychology, said that those handling such dismissals should make it a goal ''to treat the employee like a person, not like an item you can just delete from your screen.'' That would be her advice based solely on the Golden Rule, she said, but it also happens to make good business sense.
 Every dismissal has an audience, she pointed out, consisting of employees who remain. People talk. And if you march a staff member out of the office sobbing, people watch. ''The best of your staff can always get good jobs elsewhere, even in the worst economy,'' she said. ''And they will if you make it clear that you are willing to mistreat others.''
 While this has always been true, it is even more so in the Internet age, as management at Paul Hastings, a California law firm, found out in May. They terminated an associate six days after she suffered a miscarriage. The employee, Shinyung Oh, did not say the firing was related to the miscarriage but rather calls it a case of terrible timing. She responded by e-mailing a lengthy account of what she described as her callous treatment to associates firm-wide. It quickly found its way to every corner of the legal community. 
 ''If this response seems particularly emotional, perhaps an associate's emotional vulnerability after a recent miscarriage is a factor you should consider the next time you fire or lay someone off,'' she wrote. ''It shows startlingly poor judgment and management skills -- and cowardice -- on your parts.''
 And speaking of the Internet, another rule on the list of don'ts, veterans say, is to never use it as a way to fire people. Radio Shack made headlines when it did that in 2006, sending an e-mail message to 400 employees in its Fort Worth headquarters that read: ''The work-force reduction notification is currently in progress. Unfortunately your position is one that has been eliminated.''
 The free-for-all of cyberspace has become part of the dynamic in the second category of dismissals, too -- the large-scale layoff. While it is less of an ego blow to be fired because a company is flailing, it is certainly as stressful and the end result is the same: you are out of a job. It's no wonder that employees vent that stress online.
 When Starbucks announced pending downsizing earlier this month, employees gathered at the virtual water cooler -- on starbucksgossip.com, a site not affiliated with the company -- looking for information.
 ''Does anyone have a list of stores that were already informed?'' ''Does anyone know anything about any TX stores? please respond!!! ''Anything in the Chicago area?''
 Howard Schultz, the company's chief executive, said in a statement at the time that no list would be released until the managers of the targeted stores had a chance to tell employees in person. 
 But the delay did not sit well with employees waiting to learn if their jobs were about to disappear, and last week, the company released a list of the 600 locations.
 THAT employees were in fact notified before the list was made public placated many. At one Starbucks in Mississippi, a state that is losing more than 20 percent of its Starbucks locations, a worker said her manager ''did an exceptional job'' with the notifications. (The worker would not give her name because company policy does not allow employees to talk to the news media.)
 ''It was quick,'' she said. The manager ''found out at 12:45 on a certain day, and she gathered us all immediately. By 6 p.m., she had all 20 employees assembled. That's pretty hard to do, given our varied schedules and everything. I just don't see how she could have personally done any more.''
 For others, the personal touch did not make up for the weeks of uncertainty. ''I think it could of been handled differently,'' wrote one poster to starbucksgossip.com, who identified himself only as Mike. ''I don't know how exactly,'' he wrote, ''but there has to be a better way.''
 Or is there? 
 You can rip off the bandage quickly or slowly. But the bottom line is that whether delivered by e-mail message or scented note, by brash bureaucrat or sensitive superior, and whether it is called a layoff or a dismissal or a parting of the ways, you are still being fired.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KOREN SHADMI) (pg. G2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RETAILERS (64%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



602 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; THE FIX; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Time to Worry About Heat Bills

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
IT may seem like an odd time to be thinking about heating your house, but this is a good moment to do so, before the frigid weather sets in and you're wondering why the heating bill is so huge. 
 One thing to consider is switching to an electric-powered heat pump for all or part of your home. Alex Wilson, executive editor of Environmental Building News, a building industry publication, said that a heat pump is basically an air-conditioner that works for cooling and heating. 
 An ordinary air-conditioner, he said, extracts heat from the air, exhausts that heat outside and vents the cooled air into the home. A heat pump works in the opposite direction, extracting heat from the outside air and blowing it inside. 
 ''While we think of 30- to 40-degree air being cool, there is still heat in it,'' Mr. Wilson said. The heat pump ''concentrates and increases it.'' An electric-powered heat pump, he said, can take 40-degree air and raise it to 100 degrees or more.
 While electricity has traditionally been the most expensive way to heat a home, Mr. Wilson said, homeowners who use heating oil or propane gas are likely to find that as the price of oil and gas increases, using electricity to run a heat pump will seem appealing. 
 Harvey Sachs, a senior fellow at the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy in Washington, said that a whole-house heat pump can be used to replace or supplement the furnace section of a forced-air heating and cooling system. 
 As with a central air-conditioning system, Mr. Sachs said, a whole-house heat pump has a compressor outside, a coil and air-handler inside, and lines containing a refrigerant that circulates through the system. The air-handler, placed in the basement or attic, circulates the cooled air through ductwork. 
 In winter, he said, the heat pump is set to heating mode and it becomes a heater, although the efficiency of the unit decreases as the outside air gets colder. When the heat pump can no longer produce adequate warmth, a ''strip heating'' system inside the unit turns on. Strip heating, he said, is basically a resistance-heating element, like the wire in a toaster or a traditional electric heater. Generally, Mr. Sachs said, heat pumps generate the biggest energy savings when they are producing enough heat to warm the home without using the resistance element. So, he said, the time it will take to recoup the cost of installing a heat pump will vary depending on prices of electricity, oil and gas; the quality of the installation; and even the weather.
 According to Kevin Waldo, a product manager for Carrier Corporation in Indianapolis, a whole-house system costs anywhere from $6,000 to $13,000, including installation, in a home that already has the necessary ductwork in place. Another option for homeowners is to buy a heat pump for an individual room.
 Andrew Arthurs, president of alpinehomeair.com, a wholesaler of heating and air-conditioning equipment, said that with a ductless mini-split system, typically the size of a room air-conditioner, the air handler portion of the heat pump is mounted inside on a wall, the compressor is mounted on the outside of the wall and the electrical supply and lines containing the refrigerant are connected between the two units through a two-inch hole cut in the wall. Such systems can range from $1,000 to $1,500. Installation is about $1,500. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEFF HOLLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HVAC SYSTEMS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); GREEN BUILDING (76%); PROPANE (76%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (75%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); HEATING OIL (71%)

COMPANY: CARRIER CORP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3585 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%) INDIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



603 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Cut Back on Spending as Prices Climb Further

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Americans are cutting back on everything from cars to food to name-brand products, the Federal Reserve said on Wednesday, in another sign that the economy could slow significantly as money from the federal stimulus checks dries up. 
 The Fed's beige book report for June and July, considered a snapshot of the economy, highlighted fears that economic growth will stagnate as Americans cut back in the face of a weak job market and higher gasoline prices. Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's total growth. 
 Prices are also rising, particularly for fuel and food, even as wages stay steady. And while some businesses said they had not raised prices for fear of losing customers, there were signs that inflation was bubbling up. 
 The findings reinforced expectations that Fed policy makers will hold interest rates steady when they meet again in August, as the central bankers weigh the threat of inflation against a clear downturn in the economy. 
 Businesses across the country said that consumer spending was ''mixed, weak or slowing'' in June and July, according to a survey conducted by the Fed in late spring and early summer. Retailers and housing-related stores were hit hardest, as Americans shifted their shopping to discount outlets. (The Cleveland Fed district was alone in reporting ''stable to improving'' sales.)
 Restaurants reported fewer customers, and automobile sales slowed significantly, with demand ''especially poor for large vehicles such as trucks, S.U.V.'s and some minivans,'' according to the report. 
 ''Perhaps most troubling is that the massive tax rebates that were sent out during the April/mid-July period are having only a very limited effect on consumer spending,'' wrote Brian Bethune, an economist at Global Insight, a research firm.
 The beige book surveys businesses in the 12 Fed districts. Of those, seven areas reported weaker or sluggish growth, two said their economies were little changed and three reported that economic activity had risen.
 Businesses in every region described price pressures as ''elevated or increasing.'' 
 ''It was the strongest description of heightened inflation risks to appear in a beige book thus far,'' Peter Kretzmer, an economist at Bank of America, wrote.
 Activity at manufacturers slowed throughout much of the country, but high demand for exports, spurred by the weak dollar, propped up the balance sheets of businesses. However, ''manufacturers in several districts anticipated further factory weakness in the near future,'' the report said. ''While most districts expected stable capital spending heading forward, a few noted manufacturers' plans to re-evaluate based on current economic conditions.''
 Real estate markets remained soft, with fewer residential sales across much of the country, including a dip in apartment sales in Manhattan. Commercial buildings did not fare any better, with Boston-area real estate agents describing the situation as ''decidedly morose.'' Vacancies grew in Manhattan's two major business districts, a trend echoed in Philadelphia and Atlanta. Home prices declined sharply in parts of Arizona, California and Nevada.
 Credit standards remained tight in most regions, especially for mortgages. Local and national banks were more reluctant to give loans to individuals and businesses given the uncertain economic climate, a hesitation that has further reduced the prospects for a quick recovery.
 Businesses in all 12 regions said they faced higher input costs, especially from wholesale fuels, metals and chemicals. Job markets were ''unchanged or slightly weaker,'' the report said, and wages actually fell in San Francisco among workers in the construction, finance, real estate and retail industries. Businesses in Boston and Dallas said that some workers were asking for wage increases to make up for higher prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RETAILERS (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTEREST RATES (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



604 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHIFTING CAREERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Mission Beyond Profit For Venture Financiers

BYLINE: By MARCI ALBOHER

 BODY:
CITIES have long offered tax incentives to encourage companies to stay and newcomers to relocate. But another option is gaining currency in old manufacturing cities looking to prop up their struggling economies -- homegrown nonprofit groups that nurture new businesses from the ground up. 
 One of the more innovative of these groups is the five-year-old Jumpstart Inc., which provides seed money to entrepreneurs with promising businesses in the Cleveland area. Like a venture capital firm, Jumpstart identifies companies to invest in and advises them on their next steps. 
 But unlike a venture firm, Jumpstart relies on charitable donations, many of them from the private sector, for its financing and does not return a share of profits to those who provide the investment dollars. The return comes as satisfaction for elevating a region's economic standing. 
 Robert Litan, director of research for the Kauffman Foundation, a nonprofit organization focused on fostering entrepreneurship, is among those who see great value in Jumpstart's approach. ''The traditional model for helping relatively depressed areas of the country is smokestack chasing, where a city provides incentives to attract companies or to keep them from leaving,'' he said. ''But the problem with that approach is that it is very expensive and it is a zero sum game from the point of the country as a whole, because if I attract a company to my city, then I win, but the city where the company used to be from loses.'' 
 If a city can successfully spawn more businesses locally, Mr. Litan said, then they are more likely to stay at home.
 Early results on the impact of Jumpstart's work are promising. According to a report it commissioned from Cleveland State University, Jumpstart's investments have generated ripple effects throughout northeastern Ohio, like the $56.3 million in goods and services produced and the creation of 346 new jobs. While the numbers are small now, Jumpstart believes those ripples will spread exponentially.
 Similar efforts at spurring economic development have been bubbling up around the country, with varying degrees of government and private support, and they are often the biggest source of early stage financing for technology companies in their regions. They tend to be found where there is a steady supply of innovation coming out of nearby research universities. 
 One of the pioneers was the Ben Franklin Technology Partners in Pennsylvania, which was created in 1983 by the state's governor at the time, Richard Thornburgh, to breathe new life into the state.
 Jumpstart is led by Ray Leach, a serial technology entrepreneur who says he knows what it is like to build a successful company in northeastern Ohio because he has done it himself. 
 After a 20-year career building companies and advising others, Mr. Leach said he was ready to turn his attention to the macroeconomic condition of his home community and to lay a foundation for his own reinvention as a venture investor. Using a team of other serial entrepreneurs, former investment bankers and a board of local business luminaries, Jumpstart plays many roles. 
 Synapse Biomedical, a medical device company, is a typical Jumpstart company. Anthony Ignagni, one of the founders, encountered Jumpstart when he entered a business plan competition in 2003 at Case Western Reserve University, where a Jumpstart staff member was a judge. The company won $20,000 as well as introductions to people who gave feedback on its business plan. 
 In 2005, Jumpstart invested almost $300,000 in Synapse, and then worked closely with the company as it went on to raise nearly $5 million in a first round of venture financing. Just last month the company received approval from the Food and Drug Administration for a device intended to shorten the length of time patients remain on a respirator. Now that Synapse is more mature, Jumpstart plays a much smaller role.
 Warren Goldenberg, a lawyer who specializes in technology deals, represented several clients working with Jumpstart before becoming a client himself when he assumed the chief executive's role at CardioInsight Technologies, another medical technology company born out of research at Case Western Reserve. 
 ''In Boston or Silicon Valley, you don't need entities like Jumpstart. But here in the Midwest, you need a little goosing, and CardioInsight is a good example of a company that would not have existed if a group of organizations had not proactively worked to pull the pieces together to form it,'' Mr. Goldenberg said. 
 Jumpstart relies on financing from a mix of private companies, foundations and government entities, all of whom are committed to nurturing local companies in northeastern Ohio. The region was so economically battered that in 2002 it was ranked last out of the 61 largest metropolitan areas in the United States in a survey by Entrepreneur Magazine of the best regions for entrepreneurship. 
 Mr. Leach likes to point out that by 2006, Cleveland had risen to the 23rd position. ''My most cynical side says it's a happy coincidence,'' he said. ''But clearly the momentum was starting.''
 The federal government has also gotten behind Jumpstart's efforts. Robert Sawyer, the Chicago regional director of the Federal Economic Development Administration, awarded it a $750,000 grant. Mr. Sawyer's region encompasses six states -- Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan and Illinois. ''If I could seed a Jumpstart in each of those states, I would,'' he said. 
 Innovation Works in Pittsburgh is a regional partner of the Ben Franklin Technology group and, like Jumpstart, is run by a former technology entrepreneur, Richard Lunak. 
 ''When people think of technology entrepreneurs and venture capital, they think of Silicon Valley and that's where they think it ends,'' Mr. Lunak said. ''But there is a lot going on in regions like Pittsburgh, which has over a billion dollars of federally funded research pouring into its universities annually.'' 
 According to the Kauffmann Foundation, the most successful of these organizations are those led by a chief executive who has stood in the shoes of a start-up in that region. Mr. Lunak certainly fits the bill.
 ''I'm the C.E.O., but 18 years ago I helped start a medical technology company, Automated Healthcare, which was started with an $89,000 loan from Ben Franklin Technology Partners,'' he said. ''When I left, the company, which had since been acquired by McKesson Corporation, employed about 1,800 people. But it is still located in Pittsburgh. In that time, it has grown and acquired other businesses that have relocated to our region.''
 He added that ''it also drives a lot of other regional businesses, like suppliers of motors, amplifiers and sheet metal, so it has created both blue- and white-collar jobs. This is why these technology-based companies have sustainable competitive advantages.'' 
 The Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center, a nonprofit affiliate of the city's chamber of commerce, has been working to expand that city's future businesses since 1999. David Weinstein, who was Mayor Richard M. Daley's technology adviser before starting a couple of technology companies, prides himself on knowing what fledgling entrepreneurs need. ''It comes down to three things: customers, capital and mentors,'' Mr. Weinstein said.
 To bolster the capital part of that equation, the Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center also started the Illinois Innovation Accelerator Fund, a $10 million for-profit venture fund that invests $250,000 to $1 million in companies that have yet to produce revenue. 
 Asked about the center's results, Mr. Weinstein cites the connections it makes for its companies. ''We measure how many introductions a year we make to our clients to potential customers and investors, and on average it is about a thousand a year,'' he said. ''It is all really tangible.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Shifting Careers column on the Small Business page on Thursday, about nonprofit groups that nurture new businesses, misspelled the surname of Chicago's mayor, whose former technology adviser, David Weinstein, is president of one such group, the Chicagoland Entrepreneurial Center. The mayor is Richard M. Daley, not Daly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ray Leach, chief of Jumpstart, an Ohio venture group that relies on donations and grants.
 Anthony Ignagni, chief of Synapse Biomedical, which got its start with a Jumpstart investment, holds his company's device intended to help the breathing of people with spinal injuries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); FINANCING ROUNDS (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); GOVERNORS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%)

COMPANY: JUMPSTART INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (94%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



605 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Everything's Fine! My T-Shirt Says So.

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
 WHEN the temperature here broke into the 90s at lunchtime on Saturday, it was too hot to smile.
 Standing in the green grass of Boston Common, well out of reach of the shade of bordering elms, Travis Piotrowski, the director of information technology for Northwestern Mutual in Milwaukee, nevertheless wore a big grin, literally painted across his face.
 It was not his own smile, mind you, but that of a cartoon stick figure named Jake, the mascot for the contagiously popular line of T-shirts with the motto -- somewhat out of step with the times -- ''Life is good.''
 ''I think the happiest people alive are the ones who are happy with the simple things,'' said Mr. Piotrowski, who, with his wife and their two daughters, were among the thousands in the park for a Life is good festival, one of about 17 such events around the country this summer for the growing legion of Jake fans. 
 The Piotrowskis discovered the brand while camping in Wisconsin several years ago and have since acquired at least 20 T-shirts, 4 coffee mugs, matching pajamas and a paddleball set that show Jake's uncynical and ever-smiling face, which never seems to be discomforted by humidity, adversity or even that he looks more like a French mime -- with his beret and white face -- than a symbol of American optimism.
 But Mr. Piotrowski and his family appreciate Jake's perspective on life. ''With this type of economy, people really need to take a step back and look at the big picture,'' he said. ''Be happy with an ice cream sundae or playing with your kids in the backyard.''
 It is hard to say whether Jake is just a fad or, judging by the crowds here, a movement. As many as 30,000 people attended, according to Life is good Inc., which renders its brand name like a complete sentence.
 Last year, the company sold 4.2 million of its $25 T-shirts and had sales of roughly $107 million, said Bert Jacobs, who along with his brother, John Jacobs, founded the business in Needham, Mass., in 1994 with only a handful of styles and a van.
 They were trying to create ''a symbol about what was right in the world,'' he said; Jake would be a character ''who was happy not because of anything he had or because he was materialistic.'' Their most popular style has Jake and his pie-faced grin sitting in an Adirondack chair as if there was nothing more to life than kicking back.
 ''People relate to the concept because it's simple,'' Mr. Jacobs said, ''and because too much of what is happening in the world is complex.''
 Like the mass popularization of smiley face buttons in the early 1970s, which coincided with another oil and economic crisis, Life is good T-shirts have caught on among people who feel the products are spreading a positive message in a troubled world. 
 The invention of the smiley face is largely credited to Harvey Ross Ball, an advertising executive from Worcester, Mass., who drew the symbol in 1963 to improve worker morale at an insurance company that had merged with another.
 It later became a fad when printed with the slogan ''Have a nice day,'' selling countless pieces of merchandise as an almost subversively counterintuitive message that in many ways seems to be repeating with ''Life is good'' today.
 ''The years when the company has thrived the most have been the most economically, politically and socially challenged years,'' Mr. Jacobs said, adding that the company is on track to reach $135 million in sales this year through retail stores and a Web site. (In addition to the 4,500 stores that carry the Life is good merchandise, there are about 105 independently owned shops in airports and cities across the country that sell only Life is good products.) ''The people who face the most adversity are the ones who embrace 'Life is good' the most,'' he said. 
 The festivals, which began in 2003, are extraordinary in that they draw thousands of adults (and their children) to socialize with like-minded cheerleaders, while partaking in folksy contests like relay races, dog-bowl bowling and watermelon-seed spitting. The events have also raised more than $3 million for children's charities.
 Those who have embraced the brand have done so wholeheartedly, buying T-shirts as vacation souvenirs and collecting styles that reflect the many sides of Jake: playing a guitar, sharing an ice cream cone with his dog, golfing, barbecuing or drinking coffee.
 They have bought hats, beach towels, flip-flops, bracelets, dog bowls and flowerpots. One T-shirt shows a pair of sandals with the phrase, ''Not all who wander are lost.''
 It would be fair to describe most of the brand's customers as family oriented, and among them are a surprising number of educators. Dawn Morris, a special education teacher from Wallingford, Conn., has at least six T-shirts, and her husband has 15, she said, as they shopped for more under a blue tent at the festival. Tim Seston, a high school teacher at Concord Academy, wears them so often that his students ask him whether he owns anything else. Both were inspired by the product's positive messages, which could be described as the antithesis of the sexualized branding of American Apparel.
 ''I'm Life is good obsessed,'' said Shelby Dames, a teacher from Lunenburg, Mass. ''We have the Jeep wheel covers and the backpacks. We have it all. I have my Life is good coffee mug in the morning, and I drive into work with it. It makes me remember that things are not so bad.''
 The day before, in a Fenway Park skybox, Bert Jacobs spoke to 42 sales representatives with his arms spread wide, casting a crosslike shadow against a PowerPoint projection behind him showing childlike drawings of the designs for the next season. They looked not unlike those of the 20 to 30 preceding seasons, printed on the same dusty dishwater pastels: blue, green, gray and a pink resembling the byproduct of a pair of red socks tossed into a load of whites.
 ''I don't see recession,'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''I see opportunity.''
 Life is good is expanding, he explained, with pocket T-shirts and a polo shirt, denim shorts and skirts, new workout clothes (which carry the phrase, ''powered by optimism'') and a green collection made of bamboo and hemp fabrics (''optimistic by nature'').
 But it may be that what happened to the smiley face -- people became tired of it and started making frowny faces -- is now happening to Life is good. One company now sells a line of T-shirts with the phrase, ''Life is cruel.'' 
 There will always be those who see the glass as half-empty. Mr. Jacobs chooses to believe his own message.
 ''There's going to be optimism in the world, and there's going to be pessimism,'' he said. ''Our attitude is that these things will come and go, but in the long run, you won't even see that other stuff in the rearview window.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HALF FULL: Travis Piotrowski attending a Life is good festival in Boston.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BODIES BY JAKE: Children and adults gathered to play in Boston Common, all drawn by a smiling icon and a three-word philosophy/simple business plan.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (75%); FESTIVALS (73%); ICE CREAM (72%)

COMPANY: NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



606 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Revisiting 'Brideshead,' With All the Signs of Its Times (and Beyond)

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
In certain quarters the film version of ''Brideshead Revisited,'' opening Friday, will bring doubt, dismissal, sourness and myriad other disappointments, reflexively and with no particular regard for its merits. For loyalists, the 1981 British television adaptation of Evelyn Waugh's novel of faith and dissipation, first shown here on PBS in 1982, obviated any need for a revival.
 ''Brideshead Revisited'' was the sort of epic television event that gave rise to phrases like ''epic television event.'' Among its legacies, it helped establish Jeremy Irons as a star. He plays Charles Ryder, the novel's central figure, a man reflecting on his life and country from the vantage point of middle age, a stand-in for Waugh's belief in the loneliness of agnosticism. 
 ''Brideshead'' expanded the book's 351 pages to 11 episodes and took 47 weeks to shoot. It is less interpretation than stenography; lengthy passages of text are recapitulated without alteration. What doesn't reassert itself as dialogue takes the form of Ryder's slow, sibilant, mournful voice-overs, expressions of his longing and detachment. So faithful is the production to the spirit and letter of Waugh's 1945 original that it seems as if its creators feared that any variance or economy might constitute an assault on the entire enterprise of literature itself. 
 Twenty-six years after its American broadcast, ''Brideshead Revisited,'' which was rereleased on DVD in 2006, is both pleasure and punishment, anachronism and forecast. It starts and finishes with Ryder in the military toward the end of World War II, an occasion that returns him to Brideshead, the now barren estate of the Flyte family, where the ecstasies and misfortunes of his narrative unfold. He encounters the Flytes first through Sebastian (Anthony Andrews) at Oxford, during the bon vivant years between the wars, and later through Sebastian's married sister, Julia (Diana Quick), his lover until her commitment to Roman Catholicism sends them each toward solitude.
 Devoted to the university years, the first quarter of ''Brideshead'' is a tedious evocation of the freedoms and entitlements of the Bright Young Things, reveling in their epicurean fetishism. Too many tuxedos, too many luncheons and plover eggs, too many Champagne flutes and too much recuperation: it feels like 24 hours of the Fine Living Network. 
 Long, lingering shots of Brideshead abound and establish Ryder as a man whose sexual fluidity is less relevant to our understanding of him than the constancy of his reverence for the traditions and securities of wealth. In England, where the series fared only moderately well in the ratings, cultural critics aligned it with the politics of Thatcherism. Waugh made Ryder both the narrator of his past and the recorder of a larger one. An architectural painter, Ryder tells us explicitly that it is buildings, in all their permanence, that he holds in highest esteem -- higher, presumably, than the mercurial creatures who reside in them.
 ''Brideshead'' remains, undisputedly, a milestone in the history of mainstream depictions of homoerotic life. It enlivened the relationship between Ryder and Sebastian that the novel merely implies, slavishly submitting it to the forced naturalism of '70s cinematic style. From a distance the camera fixates on the two as they languish in green fields, smoking and silently gazing at each other as if to say: ''You are the essence of divinity. And I love your cashmere.'' The series only heightens the obviousness of some of Waugh's connotation; for instance it shows, early on in scene after scene, Sebastian clutching a large teddy bear -- he calls it Aloysius -- the unambiguous symbol of his resistance to maturity. (In London, after the series was first broadcast, stuffed animals became stylish accessories in nightclubs.)
 No one ever talks about ''Brideshead Revisited'' in the same breath as ''The Lost Weekend,'' but it should be counted as one of the great treatises on alcoholism in the pre-therapeutic age. Sebastian's submission to addiction is where the television version begins to find its bones, tracking with a grim precision the shift from youthful incaution to the uglier and abiding practice of drinking without contingency. 
 ''I do not mind the idea of his being drunk,'' Sebastian's mother, Lady Marchmain (Claire Bloom), remarks in her sublime and mannered naivete. ''It is the thing all men do when they are young. I'm used to the idea of it. What hurt last night is that there was nothing happy about it.''
 Without the tools or language of recovery, Sebastian's family imagines that cutting his allowance and hiding the decanters will save him. The stupendous failure of their methods is brilliantly satirized during a moment at the dinner table when Sebastian, passing his hand over his wineglass as the butler makes another round with a bottle, pauses and demands whiskey instead.
 Sebastian's romantic inclinations eventually take him to Morocco, where he supports a lover, a German officer of the Foreign Legion, emotionally broken and physically crippled. Sebastian's disease -- a term absent from the era's vernacular for alcoholism -- lands him in an infirmary, suffering from, of all things, pneumonia resulting from his worn immunity. The first AIDS film would not come until the mid-1980s, but the image of Sebastian, pallid, listless and emaciated, casts ''Brideshead'' as a chilling predictor of the epidemic, 1981 being the year that cases of a syndrome later identified as AIDS were reported in the United States. 
 It is worth considering that ''Brideshead Revisited'' appeared during -- to borrow a phrase of Waugh's -- the ''dead years'' of television. Long-form narrative had yet to wield its powerful influence on the medium. In 1982 American viewers had a choice between the sensuous exploration of love, fidelity and money that ''Brideshead'' provided and ''The Facts of Life'' (or ''One Day at a Time'' or ''T. J. Hooker''). Like the budding food revolution, it was a gateway to new kinds of consumed sophistication -- the beginning of something, and the end.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeremy Irons, top, and Anthony Andrews in the 1981 television series ''Brideshead Revisited.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY GRANADA TELEVISION/COURTESY OF THE EVERETT COLLECTION)
 Matthew Goode as Ryder in the new ''Brideshead Revisited'' film, which opens Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLA DOVE/MIRAMAX FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

TITLE: Brideshead Revisited (TV Program)>; Brideshead Revisited (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



607 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Profit at McDonald's

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Consumers helped bring McDonald's back to profitability in the second quarter by spending on breakfast biscuits, chicken sandwiches and drinks despite the tough economy. 
 But the hamburger chain, the nation's biggest, also warned on Wednesday that it expected beef and chicken costs to rise substantially in the United States and Europe through the rest of this year, and it said it was testing several options that might change the makeup of its popular dollar menu.
 McDonald's earned $1.19 billion, including a gain from the sale of its stake in the sandwich chain Pret A Manger, solidly topping Wall Street estimates. McDonald's shares fell 46 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $59.66. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); PRET A MANGER (EUROPE) LTD (58%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



608 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Sweeping Effort To Help Housing

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House approved far-reaching government assistance on Wednesday for the nation's housing market, including broad authority for the Treasury Department to protect the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies from collapse.
 The measure also includes an aggressive plan to help hundreds of thousands of troubled borrowers avoid foreclosure by refinancing their mortgages with more affordable government-insured loans. 
 The White House, citing an urgent need to restore market confidence in the two mortgage giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said President Bush would sign the measure despite his opposition to the inclusion of nearly $4 billion in grants for local governments to buy and refurbish foreclosed properties. 
 Mr. Bush's support assures that the bill will become law after final passage by the Senate, possibly on Saturday. The House approved the bill 272 to 152, with just 45 Republicans joining 227 Democrats voting in favor. 
 The weak support among House Republicans was remarkable given the president's position, and suggested an emerging split between Mr. Bush, who is nearing the end of his term, and lawmakers in the House, who are all up for re-election in November.
 Republicans said they would not support a bill that puts taxpayer money at risk while potentially bailing out irresponsible borrowers and greedy lenders.
 Lawmakers and experts described the legislation as a landmark shift in the government's role in the housing market, extending a helping hand to both Wall Street and Main Street. They said it would rank in importance with the creation of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to prevent foreclosures in the 1930s as part of the New Deal, and legislation in 1989 responding to the savings and loan crisis. 
 ''We are at a time of considerable turmoil in the private financial markets, and that is a traditional time when government support is needed and called upon,'' said Thomas H. Stanton, an author and expert on the mortgage finance industry. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, said: ''This is the most important piece of housing legislation in a generation.''
 Mr. Dodd appeared at a news conference with Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the committee. They said they expected the Senate to pass the bill with overwhelming support. 
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and a primary author of the legislation, said troubled homeowners might get relief within days of Mr. Bush signing the bill, because lenders have long known details of the legislation and could move quickly to help borrowers refinance. ''Many of these institutions know this is coming,'' he said. ''I hope they will be able to take advantage of it right away.'' 
 But the legislation, much of which has been debated and fretted over on Capitol Hill for months, also leaves numerous questions unanswered. The biggest unknown is whether the measure will be adequate to slow the downward spiral of home prices and help the economy recover from what many analysts now expect to be a prolonged slowdown. 
 Perhaps most significantly, the legislation hardens the government's long-implicit assurance that it would step in to rescue the two mortgage giants who together own or guarantee about $5.2 trillion of the nation's $12 trillion in mortgages. Currently, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guarantee financing for about 80 percent of new mortgages. 
 To accommodate a potential rescue for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the bill raises the national debt limit to $10.6 trillion, an increase of $800 billion.
 The Treasury Department has said it hopes never to use the authority to spend unlimited taxpayer funds -- perhaps hundreds of billions of dollars -- to maintain the solvency of the mortgage giants because they are in sound financial condition. Still, shares in the two companies rose sharply on Wednesday in a sign of the market's positive view of having a federal rescue plan in place. 
 The independent Congressional Budget Office said on Tuesday that the rescue plan for the mortgage finance companies should appear on the federal budget as a $25 billion charge in fiscal years 2009 and 2010, but officials conceded that this was only an estimate based on complicated probability calculations. 
 The budget office said the chances were better than even that a rescue would not be needed before the Treasury Department's authority to orchestrate a bailout ends at the end of 2009, and the cost to taxpayers would be nothing. But it also said that there was a 5 percent chance that the mortgage giants could lose $100 billion or more, potentially costing taxpayers that much or more. 
 The bill authorizes the Federal Housing Administration to insure up to $300 billion in refinanced loans for homeowners at risk of foreclosure, aiming to help as many as 400,000 homeowners trade expensive adjustable-rate mortgages for more affordable 30-year fixed-rate loans. To participate, each borrower's lender must first voluntarily agree to reduce the principal balance of the loan to about 85 percent of each home's current value. The borrowers must demonstrate the ability to pay the new loan and must also pay a 1.5 percent annual insurance fee to protect the government from future defaults.
 The bill creates a permanent affordable housing trust fund that will initially help pay for the mortgage refinancing plan and eventually sponsor the creation of rental housing for Americans too poor to buy homes. 
 The legislation provides some $15 billion in housing-related tax incentives, including a $7,500 tax credit for first-time home buyers who meet certain income qualifications. And it permanently increases the so-called conforming-loan limit, which typically qualifies mortgages for lower rates, to $625,500 in the nation's most expensive housing markets. 
 The bill also grants authority for state and local housing agencies to issue $11 billion in tax-exempt bonds to refinance bad mortgages, calls for stricter oversight of mortgage brokers and sets new disclosure requirements to make loan terms more transparent.
 Some experts, including Mr. Stanton, say the new regulator was not given enough authority.
 Mr. Bush has long supported tighter regulation of the mortgage giants. But until Wednesday he had threatened to veto the bill over $3.9 billion in grants for local governments, a provision the White House regards as a giveaway. 
 Mr. Bush set aside those objections on the advice of the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., who told Mr. Bush the overall package was necessary to help stabilize the troubled housing and credit markets, according to the White House press secretary, Dana Perino, who announced the switch Wednesday morning. 
 She said the gravity of the crisis, and the tight Congressional schedule resulting from the coming summer recess, left no option. 
 ''The president would not have signed this bill if we had a lot of extra time on our hands,'' Ms. Perino said. ''We don't.'' She said Mr. Bush thought he could have won a veto fight with Congress, but he had concluded ''a prolonged veto fight would not be good for the housing industry right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the banking committee,left, and Richard C. Shelby, the panel's senior Republican.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (76%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



609 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: PLAN WOULD USE ANTITERROR AID ON PAKISTANI JETS

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration plans to shift nearly $230 million in aid to Pakistan from counterterrorism programs to upgrading that country's aging F-16 attack planes, which Pakistan prizes more for their contribution to its military rivalry with India than for fighting insurgents along its Afghan border. 
 Some members of Congress have greeted the proposal with dismay and anger, and may block the move. Lawmakers and their aides say that F-16s do not help the counterterrorism campaign and defy the administration's urgings that Pakistan increase pressure on fighters of Al Qaeda and the Taliban in its tribal areas. 
 The timing of the action caught lawmakers off guard, prompting some of them to suspect that the deal was meant to curry favor with the new Pakistani prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, who will meet with President Bush in Washington next week, and to ease tensions over the 11 members of the Pakistani paramilitary forces killed in an American airstrike along the Afghan border last month. 
 The financing for the F-16s would represent more than two-thirds of the $300 million that Pakistan will receive this year in American military financing for equipment and training.
 Last year, Congress specified that those funds be used for law enforcement or counterterrorism. Pakistan's military has rarely used its current fleet of F-16s, which were built in the 1980s, for close-air support of counterterrorism missions, largely because the risks of civilian casualties would inflame anti-government sentiments in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
 State Department officials say the upgrades would greatly enhance the F-16s' ability to strike insurgents accurately, while reducing the risk to civilians. The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because Congress was weighing the plan, said the timing was driven by deadlines of the American contractor, Lockheed Martin. 
 Having the United States pay for the upgrades instead of Pakistan would also free up cash that Pakistan's government could use to help offset rising fuel and food costs, which have contributed to an economic crisis there, the State Department officials said. 
 Under the original plan sent to Congress in April, the administration intended to use up to $226.5 million of the aid to refurbish two of Pakistan's P-3 maritime patrol planes, buy it new airfield navigation aids and overhaul its troubled fleet of Cobra attack helicopters. The State Department notified Congress last week that the administration had changed its mind and would apply the funds to the F-16s. 
 Lawmakers immediately bridled at the shift, questioning whether the counterterrorism money could be spent more effectively. ''We need to know if this is the best way to help Pakistan combat Al Qaeda and the Taliban,'' Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who heads the appropriations subcommittee on State Department and foreign operations, said in a statement. 
 Representative Nita M. Lowey, a New York Democrat who heads the House appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations, said in a statement, ''It is incumbent on the State Department and Pakistan to demonstrate clearly how these F-16s would be used to fight Al Qaeda and the Taliban in order to get Congressional support.''
 In a two-page notification to Congress, the State Department said that upgrading the avionics, targeting and radar systems of Pakistan's older F-16s would ''increase the survivability of the aircraft in a hostile environment'' and make the ''F-16s a more valuable counterterrorism asset that operates safely during day and night operations.'' The notification said the modernized systems would also increase the accuracy of the F-16s' support of Pakistani ground troops, lessening the risks of civilian casualties. 
 Many Congressional officials remain unconvinced. ''Using F-16s this way is like hitting a fly with a sledgehammer,'' said one senior Senate Democratic aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the current negotiations. It remains unclear whether any lawmaker will block or postpone the financing, and risk harming relations with Pakistan any further. 
 Even if approved, the upgraded F-16s would not be available until 2011, said one House aide who had been briefed on the issue, and who spoke on condition of anonymity, raising the question whether the funds could be spent on counterterrorism equipment that could be employed more quickly. 
 Pakistan agreed to buy about 70 F-16s in the 1980s, and about 40 were delivered before Congress cut off all aid and military sales in 1990, citing Pakistan's secret development of nuclear weapons.
 A new deal was struck after the Sept. 11 attacks to allow Pakistan to buy newer models, in part to reward Pakistan's cooperation in fighting terrorism. In 2006, Pakistan was a major recipient of American arms sales, including the $1.4 billion purchase of up to 36 new F-16C/D fighter aircraft and $640 million in missiles and bombs. The deal included a package for $891 million in upgrades for Pakistan's older F-16s.
 At that time, the United States agreed to use $108 million of its annual security aid to Pakistan to retrofit the older F-16s with equipment to make them comparable to the newer models that will be delivered in the next several years. But the administration promised Congress that the Pakistani government would pay for the rest of the upgrades with its own funds. With Pakistan now facing economic hardships, top Pakistani leaders appealed to senior State Department officials to help defray the costs of the ongoing upgrades. 
 The debate over the F-16 financing comes at a time when Congress has grown increasingly frustrated with the administration's Pakistan policy, arguing it has been weighted too heavily on security assistance. The United States has given more than $10 billion in military aid to Pakistan since the Sept. 11 attacks, when President Pervez Musharraf agreed to become an ally in the campaign against terrorism. Of that amount, $5.5 billion was specifically intended to reimburse the counterinsurgency efforts by the Pakistani Army, but Congressional auditors have said that Pakistan did not spend much of that money on counterinsurgency. 
 Senior administration officials, including top military officers, are also voicing increasing exasperation with Pakistan's efforts to combat militants in the mountainous region along the border with Afghanistan. ''We need Pakistan to put more pressure on that border,'' Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said on ''The NewsHour With Jim Lehrer'' on PBS on Tuesday. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani of Pakistan, center, is scheduled to meet next week with President Bush in Washington.(PHOTOGRAPH BY T. MUGHAL/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERTERRORISM (94%); TERRORISM (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALIBAN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (72%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (67%); HELICOPTERS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



610 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: For Ford, the Road Ahead Is Full of Smaller Cars

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich. 

 BODY:
In recent months, as Ford Motor Company executives watched $4 a gallon gas and a softening economy take a growing toll on sales and market share, the chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, prodded his management team for answers.
 ''Everybody says cut and cut some more, but how are we going to sustain this company?'' Mr. Mulally said in one meeting in his office on the 12th floor of Ford headquarters, according to people in attendance. ''What does a sustainable Ford look like, gentlemen?''
 In less than two years since he arrived as an outsider from Boeing to run Ford, Mr. Mulally had already mortgaged the company to raise cash, sold off three brands and cut truck production in the face of rising gas prices.
 ''Why are we in business?'' he repeatedly asked the group. ''We are in business to create value. And we can't create value if we go out of business.'' 
 On Thursday, the company will officially announce its response to those questions -- a huge shift in production to build more small cars, and fewer pickups and sport utility vehicles.
 It's a big bet on the future of the American auto industry, involving the redirection of billions of dollars in investment, that Mr. Mulally hopes will help Ford thrive, not just survive.
 There are no guarantees that it will pay off, of course. But industry analysts are beginning to see Mr. Mulally as an executive who is willing to take big chances to reinvent a way of doing business in Detroit. The old way, relying on sales of big, profitable trucks and S.U.V.'s, increasingly looks out of step with the times.
 ''He has become the symbol of change for the American auto industry,'' said John Casesa of the consulting firm Casesa Shapiro Group. ''Because he's from the outside, he's not tied to the past.''
 Mr. Mulally, who will turn 63 next month, has been unavailable for interviews in advance of Thursday's announcement of Ford's new direction and its second-quarter earnings.
 Rapidly shifting consumer tastes have forced Mr. Mulally to quickly find a way to break Ford's dependence on pickups and sport utility vehicles for profits in North America.
 After losing a combined $15.3 billion in 2006 and 2007, Ford surprised the industry by posting a $100 million profit in the first quarter of this year.
 But with gas prices rising and truck sales collapsing, Mr. Mulally stunned the industry less than a month later by announcing that Ford was abandoning its 2009 profit goal and drastically scaling back truck production.
 Analysts said the company, long considered the least nimble of Detroit's automakers, usually would have waited at least until another quarter passed before dropping such bombshell.
 ''Mulally is far more of an activist than the traditional Ford chief executive who was a 35-year lifer in the company,'' said David Healy of Burnham Securities.
 Mr. Mulally has also made a believer of Kirk Kerkorian, the financier who has invested more than $1 billion in Ford stock since April.
 Mr. Kerkorian had previously taken large stakes in General Motors and Chrysler, and then sold out after running afoul of management. But his interest in Ford appears primarily based on Mr. Mulally's leadership and strategic direction.
 In fact, Mr. Kerkorian substantially increased his stake in Ford after his top deputy, Jerome York, had a meeting with Mr. Mulally. ''Alan is the real deal,'' Mr. York said.
 On Thursday, Ford is expected to report a second-quarter loss that includes charges to cover the temporary shutdowns of several assembly plants and reductions in its salaried and hourly work forces.
 But investors and analysts will be focusing more on Ford's radical plan to shift production to smaller cars and crossover vehicles.
 ''This is not a sure thing by any means,'' said Rebecca Lindland, an auto analyst with the forecasting firm Global Insight. ''The question is whether Ford can produce the styling and quality in cars that consumers want.''
 Where once Ford built its car line around the midsize Taurus sedan, the company will now make its compact Focus the linchpin of the lineup.
 Restoring Ford's car business has been a paramount concern for Mr. Mulally since he succeeded William C. Ford Jr., a Ford family scion, as chief executive.
 As recently as 2004, two-thirds of Ford's United States sales were of truck-based products. Many people in the company were skeptical that Ford could be profitable with more small cars in the showroom.
 But Mr. Mulally has challenged those notions.
 At a town hall-style meeting this year, he expressed frustration when one employee suggested that making small cars was a money-losing proposition.
 ''Why can't we make money on small cars?'' Mr. Mulally said, according to two people in attendance. ''Do you think Toyota can't make money on small cars?''
 At virtually every management meeting, Mr. Mulally would repeatedly refer to charts showing that smaller vehicles constituted 60 percent of the global automotive market.
 Each time an executive suggested that Ford's future lay in expanding its truck business, Mr. Mulally pulled the charts out.
 ''Let's see, the global share of large vehicles is 15 percent,'' he said at one such meeting, according to people in attendance. ''And you're telling me you want to invest more in them?''
 He often exhorts his employees to ''take a point of view of the future,'' and then devise a plan supporting it.
 By betting on the growth of small cars, Ford will move billions of dollars in investments away from the pickups and S.U.V.'s that have provided the bulk of its profits for nearly two decades.
 Mr. Mulally is committed to building global platforms for Ford cars that can be sold throughout North America, Europe and Asia.
 And his senior managers have been hand-picked for their expertise in international markets.
 Mark Fields, who heads Ford's Americas division, was formerly a top executive with Ford's Japanese partner Mazda. Derrick Kuzak, the company's product chief, previously ran European vehicle programs.
 Mr. Mulally also recruited James Farley from Toyota to lead Ford's global sales and marketing efforts.
 Besides recasting his executive team, Mr. Mulally changed how they worked together.
 Ford had been famous for its culture of executive fiefs that insulated senior officials from one another. One of Mr. Mulally's first tasks was to institute regular Thursday meetings of top managers to review business plans and encourage debate among departments.
 He also created a new mantra for all employees to help break down walls: ''One Ford, One Team, One Plan, One Goal.''
 Having spent 37 years with Boeing, Mr. Mulally often refers to his old company in describing how Ford can emerge from crisis conditions.
 As head of engineering for the Boeing 777 airliner in the early 1990s, Mr. Mulally would urge employees to stay focused even as the economy and airline industry struggled.
 In a documentary film about the making of the aircraft, Mr. Mulally repeatedly stressed that sticking to the plan was paramount, words that could as easily apply to Ford today.
 ''We can't let the anxiousness of today's environment in any way slow us down,'' he said. ''Don't let current events affect our intensity of getting this program done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As chief, Alan R. Mulally has begun the reinvention of Ford.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 The chief of Ford, Alan R. Mulally, left, and Mark Fields, who heads its Americas division, on the assembly line for the Focus.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB WIDDIS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



611 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER MARC BY MARC JACOBS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Marc Jacobs's Excellent Vacation

BYLINE: By MIKE ALBO

 BODY:
Provincetown, Mass.
HERE I am in this highly gay summer vacation village at the end of Cape Cod, trying to be mellow and uncritical for a month. But one day last week I was standing on Commercial Street, the town's main thoroughfare, when -- I am not exaggerating -- a dozen men walked by dressed in those puffy pleat-pocket Abercrombie & Fitch cargo shorts, scuffed-up baseball hats and tight-fitting tank tops with blocky, meaningless team numbers on the fronts and backs.
Suddenly my mellow was harshed. I wanted to grab each guy by his knotty lats and say, ''You don't have to live this way!'' Like that tinny ''oonce oonce'' music that emanates from the dance clubs here, the sporty college jock look has been a reigning summer style for guys for more than a decade, and it needs to die. 
Fortunately , Provincetown has a handful of stores to coax men out of the baggy shorts and tight, trying-too-hard tanks. All American Boy has a terrible name, but carries some good finds, including short-sleeve madras shirts by Canterbury of New Zealand ($138). Marine Specialties has super-cheap military surplus that could look surprisingly hip if you work it -- like a cheese-cutter's smock ($2.95) or a Danish insulating mesh shirt ($6.95).
Item has Parke & Ronen swim trunks, John Varvatos for Converse shirts and a wide selection of graphic tees. And the revered boutique MAP, in its 14th year in town, carries carefully selected vintage clothing, cool labels like Rogan, Rogues Gallery and Rockmount Ranch Wear and a huge array of pendants, bracelets and other masculine jewelry.
Now a Marc by Marc Jacobs has set up shop here. I thought it would be full of precious, overpriced safari bags -- and it does have them -- but here's the shocking thing: a lot of stuff here is cheap and pretty great.
The small barnlike space has a wide doorway, with a generous heap of free condoms to the left as you walk in. Up front are tiered shelves offering random gewgaws: rhinestone bubble rings ($5), charm bracelets with dangling silver pesos ($5), lipstick pens ($1.50) and leather straps emblazoned with sexy-sounding Latin phrases like Inter Nos ($7). So if you have only $5 to your name, you can still feel the Marc Jacobs experience.
Right away you notice the staff: a pretty girl with blond punky hair and three adorable boys in their early 20s, all with gracefully tattooed arms and pale S.P.F. 50 skin. Together they look like the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, or the Ting Tings, or some other ''it'' band of the hour. They were busy rearranging merchandise after the constant waves of shoppers had picked it over: polo shirts emblazoned with a Stinky Rat logo ($35), soft, thin T-shirts that say Super Hardcore ($29) and tops with henley-style buttons at the collar. These were only 20 bucks and came in shades of gray and blue.
There are lots of items you may have forgotten to pack: vintage-style flip-flops ($11), Panama hats ($34) and assorted swim trunks, including a pair of cute red short shorts ($98) that would look best if you maintain an adolescent-man's-Olympic-figure-skating body.
At the rack of men's tops and jackets, I found a short-sleeve beige shirt printed with a lovely purple and yellow floral pattern for $168, and a great pair of shorts in a gray plaid, for $178. Though the combined price equaled my food budget for the month, I was relieved to see fashion alternatives for the visiting gaycationer other than the same old jock drag.
By the door were bags and wallets in shiny quilted material: a snap wallet ($18), an evening bag ($35) and a bucket bag ($59). They looked gaudy and ostentatious, but in a fun ghetto-fabulous way, almost a satire of the overpriced luxury bags this label also manufactures. Nearby on a wall of shelves, those worshipped ''real'' Marc Jacobs bags were displayed, including a $558 tote in shiny, soft black leather, along with other bags of many colors. The display looked like an exhibit of Eva Longoria's swag from 2005.
I am totally confused by the whole must-have Marc Jacobs handbag mania. Do people in our feeble 2008 economy still actually obsess over these things? Uh-huh, yup.
As you can imagine, when Marc by Marc opened last summer, some Ptown regulars grumbled that it was too snooty for this salty, sexy town and would dilute the charming local flavor. But anyone with a speck of taste would choose the place any day over that irritating Black Dog store down the street.
With luck Provincetown can hold on to its lovable eclecticism. It's actually not that easy to get rid of because there is only one lucrative season and Commercial Street lies within the historic district, where merchants must comply with strict guidelines regarding facade, renovation and construction -- 1,000 square feet is considered a big store space here. That should be enough to discourage Dolce & Gabbana from coming with a line of luxury slutgear and matching chowder bowls.
THEN again, Marc by Marc Jacobs has enjoyed immense success. It is one of the few stores open year round, and it turned a profit after just a year in business. Who knows these days.
The image of precious fashion boutiques lining the street may gross you out, but the Marc Jacobs makes sense. It complements MAP and the other cool clothing shops, creating a healthy, stylish ecosystem for the town. And anyway, the brand's trend-making, gossiped-about namesake is brazenly gay, has a messy love life and can't stop posing half-naked in front of people.
Sounds like Provincetown to me.
Marc by Marc Jacobs 184 Commercial Street, Provincetown, Mass.; (508) 487-0723. MARC UP The big-time American designer sets anchor on the tip of the Cape, bringing some surprisingly inexpensive clothes along with his hipster luxury-wear. HOP TO Be sure to check out stores like Item, Marine Specialties and especially MAP, the excellent clothing and accessories shop at 141 Commercial Street. SNOWED IN Stuck on the Cape for winter but still want to shop like a cast member of ''The Hills''? No worries: the store stays open year round (except Tuesdays and Wednesdays).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); RETAILERS (72%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (83%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (83%); AFT (FRA) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010



612 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: With Arizona Changing, McCain Focuses on Home

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
As a general rule, Senator John McCain does not alert the news media when he eats breakfast in Arizona. 
 But on a Monday morning this month, Mr. McCain campaigned in a local diner, after a Sunday stop at his campaign office here, where he urged volunteers to ''make sure we get our voters registered, to make sure we are organized.''
 In the sea of uncertainty that defines American politics, presidential candidates have generally been able to count on the residents of their home state, Al Gore's loss of Tennessee in 2000 being a notable exception. 
 But a variety of factors have made Mr. McCain's chances in Arizona less assured than they ordinarily would seem, which his campaign has acknowledged. 
 The number of independent voters in Arizona has risen 12 percent since 2004, and those voters have helped send a Democrat to the governor's mansion and given the party four of the state's eight Congressional seats -- including two in 2006, one in a historically Republican district.
 At the same time, Arizona Democrats, like many of their counterparts around the country, have outpaced Republicans in voter registration, adding almost 20,000 voters to the rolls since March, compared with the Republican majority's 8,600 new voters. The second-term Democratic governor, Janet Napolitano, remains wildly popular. 
 Last month, the McCain campaign startlingly added Arizona to its list of 24 ''battleground states,'' a fact that state Democrats have clung to like sprinkles on a soft-serve ice cream cone. 
 ''John McCain has striking vulnerabilities here,'' said Emily DeRose, spokeswoman for the Arizona Democratic Party. ''We are going to take him to the mat. We are not giving him a pass in Arizona.'' 
 What is more, the state's Republican Party is more or less in disarray, split between its moderate and staunchly conservative factions. Its chairman, who cheerfully attended a Ron Paul campaign event here just two months ago, has been a thorn in Mr. McCain's political side for years. On Super Tuesday, Mr. McCain captured 47 percent of his party's voters, hardly the resounding victory that a candidate who has represented his state for over 25 years might expect. 
 The Democratic ambitions may be largely bluster. Neither Mr. McCain nor Senator Barack Obama, his presumed rival this fall, appears to be spending money in the state. There are no advertisements, and the Obama campaign has no paid staff here.
 Mr. McCain's political director, Sarah Simmons, said the campaign's designation of Arizona as a battleground state was simply a recognition that voters there do not always vote for Republicans for president.
 ''Obviously, any state that has swung before, we pay attention to,'' Ms. Simmons said. (Arizona has gone to the Democratic presidential candidate twice since 1948 -- Harry S. Truman won it that year, and Bill Clinton in 1996.)
 Mr. McCain's recent visit to his southwest regional campaign headquarters here to cheer on volunteers and his breakfast photo op were unusual for an election with so many states in play. 
 Mr. McCain may be trying to appeal to people like Steven Townsend, a software executive from the upscale Paradise Valley neighborhood of Phoenix, who said he had voted for Mr. McCain several times.
 ''I represent a large group of Republicans in this state who feel disenfranchised,'' Mr. Townsend said, citing the war, the economy and Mr. McCain's occasional forays into socially conservative territory as reasons for his disenchantment.
 ''You've got such a large percentage of the population that is here now that doesn't care about the popular history that many here have about him,'' he said. ''I believe he is susceptible here. It is not as clear-cut as some people may believe.''
 Indeed, demographic trends may not favor Mr. McCain. Roughly 20 percent of the state's voters are Latino, a group that tends to support Democrats in this state. Many Republicans in Arizona, including the sheriff of the most populous county, have taken an extremely hard line on illegal immigrants. 
 Further, there has been a large influx of younger voters, who tend to favor Democrats over Republicans by about two to one, said Bruce D. Merrill, a state polling expert. Many of these people are registering for the first time. 
 ''I've never voted, and I never cared to vote,'' said Sandy Simmons, 28. ''But this is such an exciting time in our history.'' She said she planned to vote for Mr. Obama.
 Also, Mr. McCain's state party has not been his staunchest supporter. It recently came under the control of its most conservative, activist branch, which was infuriated last year by Mr. McCain's support of a Senate bill that would have offered a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants. The state Republican chairman, Randy Pullen, has often shown support for other candidates, and he attended a rally for Mr. Paul in late May. 
 ''He is the best pick almost by luck of the draw,'' Mr. Pullen said of Mr. McCain in an interview at the party's headquarters here. 
 Mr. Pullen shrugged off the many disparaging remarks he had made about Mr. McCain in the past, most revolving around what he saw as the senator's lack of conservative credentials. ''That was then, this is now,'' he said. ''At this point, I very much support John McCain.''
 Mr. McCain's more relevant concern in this state may be the independents, who have been registering at a breakneck speed since the last presidential election and who, along with crossover Republicans, clearly helped elect Democrats in 2006. 
 For example, while registered Democrats accounted for only 33 percent of voters in 2006, Ms. Napolitano won re-election with 63 percent of the vote. In the state's Fifth Congressional District -- which Republicans had controlled since 1985 -- a Democrat, Harry Mitchell, unseated the Republican incumbent, J. D. Hayworth, even though only 27 percent of voters were registered Democrats then, the same percentage as Republican voters. A similar dynamic drove the race in the Eighth Congressional District, where a Democrat prevailed in a race for an open seat. 
 ''My research shows that in Arizona, the new independent is a different type of person from seven years ago,'' said Mr. Merrill, the polling expert. ''That voter was more libertarian, more get-government-out-of-my-life. The new independents, which went heavily Democratic in the last election, are much younger, better educated and overwhelmingly antiwar.''
 While Democrats welcomed the McCain campaign's description of Arizona as a battleground state, the pronouncement could also have been a strategic move, done to raise money or motivate volunteers at home, or to mess with the minds of the opposition. 
 ''I didn't take that too seriously,'' said Mr. Pullen, the Republican chairman. ''I probably should have called them to ask why. It could have been a trap for Obama.''
 Ms. Simmons, the McCain staff member, said the lack of resources being shown by both campaigns was an indicator that there was no real race in Arizona. 
 ''I think it would be a real stretch to say Arizona is a battleground state for us,'' she said, ''just as it would be a stretch to say Illinois is a battleground state for Obama.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about John McCain's campaign efforts in Arizona, his home state, referred incorrectly to Paradise Valley, the home of a Republican voter who said he was disenchanted with Mr. McCain. It is a town near Phoenix, not a neighborhood in Phoenix.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, at the Eggery in Phoenix, has stepped up his campaigning at home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); ICE CREAM (75%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); AL GORE (58%); RON PAUL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%) ARIZONA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



613 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 426 words

 BODY:
HOUSING BILL The House approved a far-reaching government assistance package for the nation's housing market, and the White House said President Bush would sign the bill. 
 SHIFTING FOCUS Alan R. Mulally, the chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, is betting that the future direction of the American auto industry will be toward smaller cars. [C1.]
 General Motors, pummeled by falling sales in the United States, lost the global sales lead to Toyota Motor in the first half of this year. [C9.]
 ENERGY CHALLENGE With oil trading at $125 a barrel, the economics of converting waste to fuel have improved, creating a rush to be the first to market. [C1.]
 IMPLANT PROBLEMS Shares of Zimmer Holdings tumbled after the orthopedics device maker said it would suspend sales of a hip replacement component in the United States. [C1.]
 ARCTIC RESERVES A geological survey found that the Arctic might hold as much as 90 billion barrels of undiscovered oil reserves, vindicating the rising interest among oil companies. [C1.]
 POCKET CHALLENGES Sigma has introduced the world's first compact camera with a big sensor, but it's far from perfect. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 SPENDING WEAKENS The Federal Reserve says that Americans are cutting back in the face of a weak job market and higher gasoline prices. [C2.]
 LAWSUIT SETTLED Nokia and Qualcomm said they agreed to settle a high-stakes licensing dispute and end a legal battle that was scheduled to go to trial. [C3.]
 SELLING HIS NAME George Foreman has been striking deals to promote products as varied as vitamin shakes and shoes for diabetes patients. Advertising. [C3.]
 DRUG WARNING The Food and Drug Administration said some patients are at a far higher risk of a serious adverse reaction to a widely used drug for H.I.V. infection and AIDS. [C3.]
 RADIO MERGER The Federal Communications Commission is said to be close to supporting a deal between XM and Sirius. [C3.]
 CROWDED DESKTOP Marketers use preinstalled software on computers to entice users with free versions of their programs, but these little devils can bog down operating systems. Basics. [C6.]
 FACEBOOK CONNECTS Mark Zuckerberg, below, Facebook's chief executive, demonstrated the company's new design to developers and predicted that social networks would start to decentralize into a series of social applications spread across the Web. [C8.]
 EXECUTIVE DEPARTS Kevin Johnson, the executive in charge of Microsoft's struggling online business, is leaving the company to become chief executive of Juniper Networks. [C8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SALES & SELLING (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); ORTHOPEDICS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (70%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (69%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (66%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%); LITIGATION (65%); DIABETES (63%); SATELLITE RADIO (62%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (53%); EMPLOYMENT (52%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (57%); ZIMMER HOLDINGS INC (56%); QUALCOMM INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (52%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (57%); TYT (LSE) (57%); TM (NYSE) (57%); 7203 (TSE) (57%); ZMH (SWX) (56%); ZMH (NYSE) (56%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%); JNPR (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALAN MULALLY (72%); KEVIN JOHNSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



614 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: The Oil Man Cometh

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
There he is, the sound of money in a wizened Texas drawl, the tired realist looking a bit like the John Huston character from ''Chinatown'' as he warns in national television ads that we should just listen here and do as he says.
 And what the 80-year-old T. Boone Pickens says, in a $58 million campaign, is that we can't drill our way to lower gas prices. By implication, anybody who tells you otherwise -- including the fellow Texan he helped put in the White House -- is a fraud. 
 This is a political parable for the ages: the guy who was behind one of the knockout punches to John Kerry four years ago is now doing Democrats the biggest favor of the election by calling Republicans on their phony energy campaign. 
 ''Totally misleading'' is the way Pickens describes Republican attempts to convince the public that if we just opened up all these forbidden areas to oil drilling then gas prices would fall. He's not against new drilling, but he is honest enough to say it wouldn't do anything. 
 Republicans are furious at their longtime benefactor. Senator John McCain is currently running an ad in which he directly blames Barack Obama for $4-a-gallon gas at the pump -- as bogus a claim as anything yet made in 2008. 
 Then along comes Pickens, Texas oilman and billionaire corporate raider, overwhelming the McCain attack with a saturation message that has the added value of being true, as Henry Kissinger once said about another matter.
 Pickens was a geologist before he found a deep pool of money, so when he says ''the geology just isn't there'' to reduce oil imports through new drilling in offshore areas, he has some cred. 
 But, more importantly, Pickens is betting $10 billion in constructing what he says will be the world's largest wind farm in the gusts of West Texas. If the mighty winds of the American midsection were harnessed, it could free up plentiful natural gas for vehicles -- a relatively quick step away from foreign oil. 
 Would it enrich him further? Yes. But perhaps it's not about money. In ''Chinatown,'' the old man played by Huston was asked by Detective Jake Gittes what more he could possibly buy at his age.
 ''The future, Mr. Gittes. The future.'' 
 But before T. Boone poses for his statue, he has to answer to his past. Pickens was the moneybags, to the tune of $3 million, behind the Swift Boat attacks that made Senator Kerry's honorable service in Vietnam sound like Rambo tangled up in lies. He even promised to pay $1 million to anyone who could challenge the veracity of the claims.
 After a group of veterans presented him with documents identifying 10 lies of the Swifties, Pickens broke his promise. The vets misunderstood the precise details of the $1 million offer, he said last month. Sorry, but thanks for your service, boys! 
 The old-fashioned term for this is welshing on a bet, which dishonors Wales.
 Because so much is at stake in the energy debate, some are quick to embrace Pickens. An endorsement from Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club, is prominently displayed on the Pickens Web site. 
 ''To put it plainly,'' Pope says, ''T. Boone Pickens is out to save America.'' I asked Pope why he lent his words to someone who had so much to do with giving us another four years of the oil intransigence of the Bush administration.
 ''Ten billion dollars gets my attention,'' he said. 
 No doubt, the Pickens plan makes sense. Just last week, Texas state officials gave preliminary approval to the biggest investment in clean energy in American history, backing a $4.9 billion plan to build transmission lines for wind energy.
 Meanwhile, looking bravely to the past, Bush and McCain are trying to convince us that more oil drilling will save us from $5-a-gallon gas. History says otherwise. The number of oil and gas permits on federal land doubled in the last five years, with no effect on price or supply. And Bush's own Energy Information Administration says increased drilling wouldn't move the market in the short term. 
 McCain knows this, despite the brazen lie in his Obama gas ad. He now says drilling offshore would have ''a psychological impact.'' Just like that ''mental recession'' his former chief economic adviser Phil Gramm spoke of. These guys need to get off the couch.
 It's sad to see McCain go down this path, an easy sell for a fast-food nation. Straight talk distress.
 Winning the argument may depend on who has the bigger megaphone. Advantage Pickens. Which means advantage Obama. Unless, of course, McCain wants to Swift Boat him, and then he knows who to turn to. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); WIND ENERGY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (68%); IMPORT TRADE (62%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



615 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: A Nation of Debtors: Some Theories

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Culture of Debt,'' by David Brooks (column, July 22):
 Mr. Brooks does not mention one important reason societies develop good habits or bad ones: Our leaders can have transformative impact. 
 Franklin D. Roosevelt calmed us down. John F. Kennedy got us to volunteer. Ronald Reagan made us less dependent on government. George W. Bush could have asked us to sacrifice. He didn't. His post-9/11 advice was to go shopping. Obviously, too many of us did just that. Mel Sokotch 
 New York, July 22, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 David Brooks cites the argument that ''free societies depend on individual choice and responsibility.'' But as long as our educational institutions fail to teach our youngsters the responsible use of credit cards; when and how to finance a home and/or a car and perhaps most important, how to live within a personal budget, a good many of those attending our schools are not free to exercise individual choice and responsibility.
 Much of the blame for our current credit card and mortgage mess belongs with our schools, most of which permit students to graduate without having to demonstrate any financial awareness whatsoever. Who's to blame for this, Mr. Brooks? William Dusenberry
 Broken Arrow, Okla., July 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 While focusing on the decline of the American culture of thrift as an explanation for the current subprime mortgage crisis, David Brooks doesn't detail an accompanying decline of a sense of community by lending institutions.
 In the years before they had the ability to sell off to third parties the loans they provided, banks had a vested interest in ensuring that each borrower had the ability to pay down the mortgage in the first place. The borrower's risk was also the bank's risk, and thus the bank was financially wedded to the borrower and, by extension, the community.
 How can we return to those good old days? Peter Homans
 New York, July 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks does not mention the government's failure to deal with a troubling component of a society that values consumption over thrift: the widening gap between the wealthy and the poor and the squeezing of the middle class.
 Many factors beyond government policy have contributed to the gap between rich and poor. But far from trying to ''re-right the norms,'' the government under President Bush has largely reinforced this gap, particularly through tax cuts for the wealthy and policies that encourage consumption.
 Moreover, it may be necessary to rescue failing financial institutions, but if government agencies under the Bush administration had been able to use their oversight and enforcement powers properly, these failures, and the fallout from them, would not have been likely to have happened to begin with. Nancy Haven
 Montclair, N.J., July 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks rightly points out that lack of social protections, individual responsibilities and environmental pressures are all important variables that factor into our culture of hyper-consumption and debt. But in referring to our penchant for ''retail therapy'' and unhealthy financial decision-making, he did not mention a broader social problem: the very deliberate creation of irrational needs to mitigate our reasoning ability and get us to spend. 
 Our desire to spend more than we have is directly related to the emotion-laden tsunami of marketing messages we swim in daily, a flood that only keeps increasing in intensity. To ignore the role of an unharnessed public relations industry when discussing the hows and whys of our choices is to ignore a much more insidious, and remediable, cultural problem. Yosef Brody
 New York, July 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In an otherwise balanced and thoughtful column about the current economy, David Brooks writes, ''The turn in the market punishes many of those seduced by financial temptations.'' Would that this were true.
 In fact, a great many of us who borrowed carefully or not at all are also being punished as we watch our retirement savings eaten away. Bruce Katz
 Silver Spring, Md., July 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (84%); BUDGETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



616 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Reports Find Errors and Fraud in Small Business Administration Contracts

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Two government reports have uncovered millions of dollars in federal contracts that were supposed to go to small businesses but instead were awarded to companies that had not qualified or had obtained the contracts fraudulently.
 In one report, the inspector general for the Interior Department found that contracts listed as going to small businesses went to a dozen Fortune 500 corporations, including the Xerox Corporation and the John Deere Company. 
 The report, based on a sampling of the department's small business contract awards in fiscal years 2006 and 2007, uncovered no fraud but found that large businesses received the contracts because of data entry errors, incorrect data and failure by contracting officials to verify the actual size of the business. 
 The report also said that in several cases, corporations appeared to have misrepresented themselves as small businesses on the federal contractor data base. 
 Xerox and John Deere said they were moving to correct those errors, and Senator John F. Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, called for all federal agencies to audit their small business contracting practices.
 The second report, by the Government Accountability Office, found that numerous private firms had tapped into the Small Business Administration's set-aside program for small businesses in economically distressed areas by falsely claiming they were located in a Historically Underutilized Business Zone, or HUBZone.
 Ten randomly selected companies in the Washington area, according to the agency, had set up virtual offices or rented mail boxes in poor communities solely to obtain a HUBZone business address. Over two years, those companies and others won more than $100 million in HUBZone contracts, according to the report presented to the House Committee on Small Business last week.
 ''You have to wonder about a system that lets individuals self-qualify for a program of this size,'' said Nydia M. Velazquez, the New York Democrat who heads the committee. 
 In response, the S.B.A. released a statement that outlined the steps it planned to take to correct the problems and verify that companies are eligible. 
 Officials at the Interior Department said the inspector general's report uncovered only $5.7 million in misdirected contracts. That was a small fraction of the agency's overall small business contract awards, which totaled $1.39 billion in fiscal year 2006 and $1.6 billion in fiscal year 2007.
 But Earl E. Devaney, the department's inspector general, said what his audit team uncovered ''was the tip of the iceberg'' because it was based on a review of three-tenths of a percent of contracts from a cross-section of offices -- ranging from Indian affairs to surface mining -- in the huge department.
 ''These are not just clerical mistakes that can be tagged on two little clerks,'' Mr. Devaney said. ''This is not one single report, but our fourth in the contracting area.''
 P. Lynn Scarlett, the Interior Department's deputy secretary, said the department was ''working to correct these issues.'' Her office did not return further calls, and her statement was included in a response to the report by the S.B.A., which also monitors how well the federal government meets its small business contracting goals.
 Congress has required that 23 percent of all federal contracts, which total more than $400 billion annually, be set aside for small businesses. Agencies are required to state whether they have met their annual contracting goals. But several inquiries, including one by the G.A.O. in 2003, have raised questions about the accuracy of the S.B.A.'s reporting.
 The inspector general's report ''is the latest maddening evidence that big businesses are being handed federal contracts that should be going to small businesses,'' Mr. Kerry said. He added that he would ''be sending letters to every federal agency asking them to audit their small business contracts and report back to the committee.''
 Steven C. Preston, the former administrator of the agency, adopted rules last year that small businesses recertify their size when they merge with a larger business or are at the five-year point in a contract. 
 The American Small Business League, a small business association, said the problems with small business contracts went far deeper than even the inspector general found. The league's president, Lloyd Chapman, said large companies were getting the contracts not simply because of errors but because of ''the intentional diversion of federal small business contract dollars to Fortune 500 firms.''
 Two years ago, the Interior Department said it had awarded more than 55 percent of its contract dollars to small businesses. But the inspector general's evaluation said that contracting officers acknowledged that some of the companies were not small and ''were incorrectly coded as small.''
 One of the companies cited, John Deere, won more than $617,000 in small business contracts from the Interior Department in 2006 and 2007. The company, with 52,000 employees and revenue nearing $23 billion last year, said that it was moving to correct the errors in the government database that listed it as having $2 million in annual revenue and under 500 employees. The government defines a small business as one with fewer than 500 employees.
 ''A marketing unit of Deere had correctly listed the number of employees in that small business unit on a government form, and this number has been used by government agencies to define the entire Deere enterprise as a small business,'' said Ken Golden, a company spokesman.
 The Interior Department report also found that contracting officers ''failed to consistently check'' the central contractors registry to determine the company's true size. 
 A spokesman for Xerox, William McKee, said the company's review of the central registry revealed ''several errors where business size was entered incorrectly'' from such agents, and said the company was going to correct the mistaken data.
 ''Xerox is not a small business, and has never attempted to portray itself as one,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Nydia Velazquez, left
Earl E. Devaney, the Interior Department's inspector general
 and Senator John Kerry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC CONTRACTING (94%); SMALL BUSINESS (93%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); AUDITS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MINES & MINING (50%); SURFACE MINING (50%)

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); EARL DEVANEY (77%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



617 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2386 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, July 24, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 CORRUPTION AND DIVISION CITED
 In Afghan Narcotics, Official Says
 Corrupt Afghan officials, a reluctant military and divisions over policy, as much as the Taliban, have contributed to a failing policy to fight narcotics in Afghanistan, a former Bush administration official says. The government of President Hamid Karzai has shielded the cultivation of poppies from American eradication efforts, writes the official, Thomas Schweich, and the combined failure has turned Afghanistan into a virtual narco-state. PAGE A12 
 IRAQ HEAD VETOES ELECTIONS LAW
 Iraq's president vetoed legislation on provincial elections, sending it back to lawmakers for revisions as political leaders continued to try to strike a deal that would allow the vote to be held this year as planned. Provincial elections are seen as central to political progress in Iraq, but their timing was thrown into doubt on Tuesday when Kurdish lawmakers boycotted the parliamentary vote on the legislation, insisting that it be rewritten. PAGE A8 
 CLERIC LOSES APPEAL IN BRITAIN
 An Egyptian-born Muslim cleric fighting extradition to the United States on terrorist charges failed in his bid to take the case to Britain's highest appeals court in the House of Lords. One of the country's most senior judges ruled that there was ''no point of law or general importance'' that justified a further appeal. The ruling moved the 51-year-old cleric, known by the pseudonym of Abu Hamza al-Masri, a step closer to facing trial in the United States. PAGE A10 
 KARADZIC MAY DEFEND HIMSELF
 A lawyer for Radovan Karadzic said that his client would defend himself in any war crimes trial if he were handed to the United Nations tribunal. ''He is convinced that with the help of God he will win,'' the lawyer said. PAGE A6
 WINEMAKERS' RELATIONSHIPS SOUR
 A French court's ruling has set winemaking families in the French medieval village of St.-Emilion against one another after some lost promotions they had been given in the 2006 classification of the region's wines. The area, which contains 770 winegrowers and produces more than 30 million bottles a year of some of Bordeaux's most expensive wines, represents an enormous collective business and, now, judicial and commercial confusion. PAGE A10 
 QUAKE SHAKES NORTHERN JAPAN
 An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 6.8 jolted northern Japan, injuring at least 91 people, trapping hundreds in halted trains and temporarily cutting off electric power to thousands of homes. The Japan Meteorological Agency said there was no threat of a tsunami. PAGE A14 
 Rice Meets Korean Counterpart A14 
 National
 MCCAIN CAMPAIGN STOP ON OIL RIG
 Is Thwarted by Hurricane Dolly
 Senator John McCain had plans designed to steal at least a little attention from Senator Barack Obama's speech in Berlin: He was to travel to an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico and meet with a possible Republican vice-presidential pick. But Hurricane Dolly thwarted the presumptive Republican nominee's plans to talk up offshore drilling and why he says it is safe. PAGE A21
 NEWSOM. GAVIN NEWSOM.
 Whoever casts the next James Bond movie may want to consider Gavin Newsom, mayor of San Francisco, for the title role. Mr. Newsom was enlisted on Monday afternoon to coax a secret code out of a city engineer who prosecutors say has effectively hijacked a large part of the city's computer systems. And where computer technicians and private hackers failed, Mr. Newsom succeeded. PAGE A17 
 CAN MCCAIN COUNT ON ARIZONA?
 For a presidential candidate, home is where the Electoral College votes are. Or they should be, at least. So John McCain should be able to count on his home state of Arizona for its 11 votes in the Electoral College. But a variety of factors have thrown a dash of doubt into that equation. PAGE A21 
 OBAMA MEETS MIDDLE EAST LEADERS
 Barack Obama met with the leaders of both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Continuing his much-scrutinized trip abroad, Mr. Obama said it was in Israel's interest to make peace with the Palestinians. He also emphasized that Israel has a right to defend itself. PAGE A20
 CRIME AND TERROR BATTLE FOR FOCUS
 Like most of the country's more than 18,000 local law enforcement agencies, the Providence Police Department went to war against terror after 9/11, embracing a fundamental shift in its national security role. But much has changed. Now, police officials in Providence express doubts about whether the imperative to protect domestic security has blinded federal authorities to other priorities. The department is battling homicides, robberies and gang shootings that the police in a number of cities say are as serious a threat as terrorism. PAGE A17
 5 IN POLYGAMOUS SECT FACE ARREST
 Texas rangers and prosecutors prepared to arrest five members of a polygamous Mormon sect indicted the day before with their imprisoned leader Warren Jeffs. The charges are related to underage marriages and bigamy. PAGE A2 
 An Awakening. A Surge. PAGE A2
 Judge Rules on Berkeley Tree PAGE A19
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 GATES AND BLOOMBERG PLEDGE
 $500 Million to Prevent Smoking
 Bill Gates and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced that they would spend $500 million to stop people around the world from smoking, which the World Health Organization estimates will kill up to a billion people in the 21st century. Mr. Bloomberg's foundation plans to commit $250 million over four years on top of a $125 million gift he announced two years ago. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is allocating $125 million over five years. PAGE B1
 THE LITTLE TRAIN THAT CAN
 With its two cars, single track and four stops, the Franklin Avenue shuttle in Brooklyn looks less like a part of the New York City subway system than a way to get around Mister Rogers's neighborhood. But the little shuttle is punctual: it has been named the most on-time train in the subway system by New York City Transit. PAGE B1 
 Rebuilding Ground Zero Church B2 
 BUSINESS
 FORD CHIEF SLASHES AND BURNS
 To Grow His Company
 In less than two years, Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, has mortgaged the company to raise cash, sold off three brands and slashed truck production in the face of rising gas prices. Industry analysts are beginning to see him as an executive who is willing to take big chances to reinvent a way of doing business in Detroit. PAGE C1 
 SALES OF HIP PARTS SUSPENDED
 Shares of Zimmer Holdings Inc., the nation's biggest producer of orthopedic devices, fell as the company announced it was suspending sales of an artificial hip component. The company said it was halting sales of a hip socket known as the Durom cup after some doctors have complained that the device was failing. PAGE C1 
 A MORE SOCIAL FACEBOOK
 Facebook unveiled a new feature, Facebook Connect, a way that other Web sites can integrate parts of Facebook's service, in order to broaden its reach online and to recalibrate its sometimes contentious relationship with the thousands of developers writing programs for the service. PAGE C8 
 A MISSION BEYOND PROFITS
 Cities have long offered tax incentives to encourage companies to stay and newcomers to relocate. But another option is gaining currency in old manufacturing cities looking to prop up their struggling economies: homegrown nonprofit groups that nurture new businesses from the ground up. PAGE C5 
 ARTS
 SUMMER OF THE SUPERHERO
 May Face Its Autumn
 As Comic-Con begins in this season of superheroes -- Batman, The Hulk, Iron Man, Hancock and Hellboy have all made appearances -- A.O. Scott asks: Are the Caped Crusader and his colleagues basking in an endless summer of triumph, or is the sun starting to set? PAGE E1 
 A MEMOIR OF FORGERIES
 Signed with a swooping ''Noel,'' a short, gossipy letter appears alongside hundreds of others in ''The Letters of Noel Coward,'' an acclaimed volume published by Alfred A. Knopf last year. But the letter, and another much like it, were actually written by Lee Israel, a biographer and editor in New York who spent two years writing forgeries and selling them to autograph dealers. Or so Ms. Israel says in her new memoir, ''Can You Ever Forgive Me?'' PAGE E1 
 HUNT FOR EQUITY IN ARTS FINANCING
 The Cultural Equity Group, a coalition of arts organizations in New York City, is seeking to shift the arts funding paradigm to get more money and technical assistance for groups specifically run and served by blacks, Hispanics, Asian-Americans and Native-Americans. Its quest has reignited a lively debate in the arts world about just what cultural equity means. PAGE E1 
 Charles Isherwood Samuel Beckett's 'First Love' E1 
 Styles
 AMID CURRENT LAYOFFS,
 Pointers for Friendly Firings
 In an economy like this one, where the news is filled with people losing their jobs, is there a right way to fire someone? New York City is expected to lose 33,000 finance jobs this year and Starbucks will shutter 600 locations around the country. But for every person who is fired, there is someone whose job it is to fire them, and those who have dismissed colleagues say it is something they dread. PAGE G1 
 NOVELS WITH FASHION SENSE
 A look at the current batch of Romantic novels, which includes Lauren Weisberger's ''Chasing Harry Winston,'' James Patterson's ''Sunday at Tiffany's,'' and Jane Green's ''The Beach House.'' Although the plots are at times thin, the books are faithfully informed by the values and brands of the fashion world and its parallel universes of entertainment, media and publishing. PAGE G1 
 HALF-MARATHONS RACE WITH WHOLE
 Half-marathons -- races of 13.1 miles -- have been growing in popularity, among runners who consider them a friendlier challenge than a whole marathon. Mary Wittenberg, the president of the New York Road Runners, which organizes the city's Marathon and Half-Marathon, said ''We believe the half-marathon is the new hot distance.'' PAGE G8 
 HOME
 A GEIGER COUNTER FOR THE KITCHEN COUNTER?
 As the popularity of granite countertops has grown -- demand for them has increased tenfold in the last decade, according to the Marble Institute of America -- so have the types of granite available. And with increased sales and variety, there have been more reports of ''hot'' or potentially hazardous countertops. ''I had them ripped out that very day,'' said one woman, after an inspection revealed her counter had elevated levels of radon. PAGE F1 
 TIME TO WORRY ABOUT HEAT BILLS
 It may seem like an odd time to be thinking about heating your home, but this is a good moment to do so, before the frigid weather sets in and you're wondering why the heating bill is so huge. One thing to consider is switching to an electric-powered heat pump for all or part of your home, writes Jay Ramano in The Fix. PAGE F2 
 GARDENS HARVEST RAINWATER
 The construction is simple: rainwater flows down a spout from the roof until it reaches a T, where a filter catches leaves and other matter. The water is then directed into a tank and then into the ground. There is not enough pressure to power a sprinkler, but there is enough for 150 feet of soaker hose, which is why many community gardens are starting to rely on the systems. PAGE F7 
 Obituaries
 VICTOR A. MCKUSICK, 86
 A cardiologist who went on to become a founder of medical genetics and helped make the discipline a central part of medicine, he was a proponent of mapping the human genome 34 years before the feat was achieved. He also influenced the training of the vast majority of medical geneticists through his textbooks. PAGE B6 
 CHARLES Z. WICK, 90
 The longest-serving director of the United States Information Agency, he was a friend of Ronald Reagan, a relationship that led to his appointment and gave him influence to recharge the agency with bigger budgets, superior technology and aggressive policies. PAGE B6 
 Sports
 PINE TAR BAT INCIDENT REVISITED
 It remains one of baseball's most riveting images: George Brett, eyes bulging with rage, bolting out of the visiting dugout at Yankee Stadium, intent on enacting a most primal impulse. He wanted to kill the ump. The object of Brett's fury, Tim McClelland, was back in the Bronx this week, working his first series at Yankee Stadium as a respected crew chief. PAGE D4 
 FOLLOW THE YELLOW JERSEY
 With a formidable display of climbing prowess on the toughest mountain in this year's Tour de France, Carlos Sastre took the race leader's yellow jersey and set up a four-man showdown for the Tour victory in Saturday's final time trial. PAGE D1
 Editorial
 A LESSON NOT LEARNED
 The controversy over Florida's infamous butterfly ballots should have led to sweeping reforms. Years later, ballots around the country are still far too confusing, and poor instructions have disenfranchised hundreds of thousands of voters. Page A24
 I'M COMFORTABLE, HOW ABOUT YOU?
 Defense Secretary Robert Gates is right to demand full accountability from the Air Force. . We recommend that the new leaders start by questioning at least four generals about how ''comfort capsules,'' luxury pods for the top brass, will help defeat Al Qaeda. Page A24
 ONE VERY SCARY JALAPEnO
 Federal health officials have finally found a jalapeno pepper tainted with the rare form of salmonella that has poisoned more than 1,200 people since April. But finding one bad pepper cannot close the lid on the largest outbreak of food-borne illness in America in a decade. Page A24
 Op-Ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 On his visit to the Middle East, Barack Obama gave ritual affirmations of his support for Israeli policy. But what Israel needs from America isn't more love -- it's tougher love. Page A25
 TIMOTHY EGAN
 A political parable for Campaign '08: T. Boone Pickens, the guy behind one of the knockout punches to John Kerry four years ago, is now doing Democrats the biggest favor of this election by calling Republicans on their energy campaign. Page A25
 PAYING DOCTORS TO IGNORE PATIENTS
 By reimbursing doctors for each individual service they provide, Medicare encourages them to order unnecessary tests and treatments. A better approach, writes Peter B. Bach, an Op-Ed contributor, would be to reimburse doctors a set amount for each patient based on the person's condition. It would save Medicare money and encourage better patient care. Page A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); VETO (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (75%); LAWYERS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); JUDGES (70%); BOYCOTTS (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (67%); TERRORISM (67%); WINE (67%); WINERIES (67%); HURRICANES (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); WAR CRIMES (63%); METEOROLOGY (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); GULF OF MEXICO (74%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008



618 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: California Orders Low-Sulfur Fuel for Ships

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
California on Thursday ordered the 2,000 big ships calling on its ports every year to switch to low-sulfur fuel whenever they were within 24 miles of the coast, in what state officials said was the world's strictest emissions standards for marine diesels. 
The rule, promulgated by the California Air Resources Board, would require switching to a fuel with 97 percent less sulfur. Sulfur in diesel fuel combines with other pollutants to make tiny particles that are linked to cancer and other illnesses.
''That's the stuff that kills people when it comes out of the pipe,'' said David Pettit, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, which favored the change. ''It's good news for people who breathe, and it's within the economic ability of the shipping industry to handle it.''
Mary Nichols, chairwoman of the air resources board, said in a statement, ''This regulation will save lives.'' According to her agency, the regulations will prevent 3,600 premature deaths from 2009 to 2015.
Shipping companies argue that traffic in international waters should be governed by international law, and environmentalists expect them to try to overturn the California rule in court. The International Maritime Organization, an organization affiliated with the United Nations that sets such laws, has been considering limits on marine fuel.
Ships typically burn fuel with a sulfur content of 3.5 percent; under the California rule, that would be cut to 0.5 percent in 2009 and 0.1 percent in 2012. In contrast, Mr. Pettit noted, trucks in California now use diesel fuel about 60 times cleaner than the 2012 requirement.
Earlier this year, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit overturned a California rule that sought to regulate the engines that ships use to make electricity. The court ruled that under the Clean Air Act, only the federal government could impose such a regulation.
On Thursday, the state tried again, adopting a rule on fuel that does not address the engine itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); ADMIRALTY LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (65%)

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%); INTERNATIONAL MARITIME ORGANIZATION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



619 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: At Ford, End of Era Takes a Toll

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Ford Motor Company tallied the financial impact on Thursday of falling sales of its big pickups and sport utility vehicles, which contributed to the worst quarterly loss in its 105-year history.
 While Ford's auto operations lost $1 billion in the second quarter, the bulk of the company's $8.7 billion loss came from write-downs in the value of its truck factories and lease portfolios.
 The huge charges reflect the diminishing value of both the plants and the vehicles they produce. 
 ''These write-downs are another result of the tremendous movement in the marketplace away from trucks and S.U.V.'s,'' Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said in an interview.
 As expected, Ford announced sweeping changes in its future product plans, to shift its focus more to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars, rather than trucks.
 But the costs of the unprecedented drop in demand for trucks will likely ripple through the auto industry for some time.
 Analysts also expect General Motors to take big charges to cover the sinking value of pickups and sport utility vehicles coming off leases.
 One analyst, Brian Johnson of Lehman Brothers, said GMAC Financial Services, which is 49-percent owned by G.M., will likely follow Ford and write down the value of its vehicle loans.
 ''This trip to the financial confessional increases the pressure on GMAC and G.M. to look at potential loan losses on their books,'' Mr. Johnson said Thursday.
 The United States market for pickups and S.U.V.'s began collapsing in the spring when gas prices hit $4 a gallon, as consumers moved rapidly to buying small cars.
 So far this year, sales of large pickups are down 25 percent, and S.U.V.'s have fallen 32 percent, according to the trade journal Ward's Automotive Reports.
 But the impact is hurting automakers in more than just sales of new trucks.
 ''There are multiple second- and third-order impacts,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''We're seeing it in lease residuals, we're seeing it in loan losses, and we're seeing an impact in the showroom, because people can't get enough on their old cars to make it worthwhile to get into a new car.''
 Ford took a $5.3-billion charge to write down the value of its plants that build pickups and S.U.V.'s. Ford Credit, its auto loan arm, took a $2.1 billion write-down to cover the shrinking value of its lease portfolio.
 The company said that during the quarter, auction values for Ford vehicles coming off 24-month leases had dropped an average of $2,700 from a year earlier. The value of vehicles with 36-month leases fell about $2,400.
 The drop-offs were directly tied to the dwindling resale value of pickups and S.U.V.'s coming off lease, said Brenda Hines, a spokeswoman for Ford Credit.
 ''I can tell you that about 85 percent of the impaired vehicles were trucks and S.U.V.'s,'' she said.
 One analyst said that pickups and large sport utility vehicles have lost about 25 percent of their value since last year.
 ''The three-year-old large S.U.V.'s are feeling it the worst,'' said Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis for Edmunds.com, an auto-research Web site.
 Many used sport utility vehicles are being sold directly to auction houses because dealers will not take them as trade-ins, he said.
 ''Even when they do take them, some dealers are low-balling,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''In other words, a large S.U.V. may be worth $15,000, but when you take it to the dealership they're only willing to give you $10,000.''
 As a result, untold numbers of used S.U.V.'s and pickups are being sold cheaply at auction.
 Some consumers are scooping up bargain-priced sport utility vehicles because the savings allow them to cover the higher cost of gas, Mr. Toprak said.
 While Ford's loss underscored the drastic decline in demand for bigger vehicles, it spurred the company to accelerate changes in its future production plans.
 The automaker will convert three of its North American assembly plants from truck-based products to small cars, and bring six of its upcoming European vehicles to the United States market by the end of 2012.
 Within two years, Ford plans to spend two-thirds of its product development costs on cars and crossover vehicles. Currently, the company spends about half on cars and half on trucks.
 ''While we have no intention of giving up our longtime truck leadership, we are creating a new Ford in North America on a foundation of small, fuel-efficient cars and crossovers,'' said Mark Fields, the president of Ford's Americas division.
 The company plans to use more global vehicle platforms to sell similar cars in North America, Europe and elsewhere. Ford said that it would cut its total platforms for small cars, midsize cars and vans from 25 to nine.
 The critical issue is how well Ford can ride out the softening economy and weak sales in the United States market.
 Ford said Thursday that it expects full-year sales in the United States this year of 14 million to 14.5 million vehicles, which would be the lowest level in more than a decade.
 Mr. Mulally said Ford expects the American economy to begin a gradual improvement in 2010. He expressed confidence that Ford has enough cash to finance its transformation plan until then.
 Ford reported that it had $26.6 billion in cash reserves as of the end of June, a decrease of $2.1 billion from the end of the first quarter. That means Ford is burning through roughly $700 million a month to run its operations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Louisville, Ky., where Ford announced on Thursday that two plants would be kept and retooled, Gov. Steve Beshear, center, and Mayor Jerry Abramson, right, were all smiles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT MCDONOGH/THE COURIER-JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (98%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (74%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (74%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (74%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: STEVE BESHEAR (59%); ALAN MULALLY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (74%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



620 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section WT; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drop Sharply; Banks Lead Decline

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Widespread fear about the financial sector brought a dramatic end to the recent stock rally, as investors scrambled to take profits from bank shares and sent the Dow Jones industrials down more than 280 points, its worst loss in a month. 
 Financial shares, coming off a six-session winning streak, plunged after the regional bank National City and Washington Mutual, the nation's biggest savings and loan, were besieged by gloomy analyst reports. 
 WaMu was forced to take the unusual step of issuing a public statement about its financial strength, for the second time in a week. 
 Investors are worried that the worst of the tight credit market still lies ahead. The nation's banks have struggled to escape the cascading effects of paralysis in the debt markets and the decline in home values. Sales of previously owned homes declined in June at nearly double the rate that economists had expected, according to a report on Thursday.
 The sell-off in financial shares brought down the broader market, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finishing down 2.3 percent. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 2 percent. All the major indexes headed downward at the opening bell and never recovered. 
 ''We've had such a strong run especially in the financials,'' Ryan Larson, a trader at Voyageur Asset Management, said. ''A lot of people are taking money off the table.''
 Big bank stocks like Citigroup and Lehman Brothers, which had seen record gains in the last week, plunged again. As a group, shares of financial firms listed in the S.&P. 500 lost 6.3 percent on Thursday alone.
 National City shares lost 2.1 percent after the holding company reported a $1.8 billion loss for the second quarter. Washington Mutual was off 13.3 percent after losing more than 20 percent on Wednesday.
 Oil prices also moved higher. Crude oil futures rose $1.05, to $125.49 a barrel in New York trading.
 The painful home sales report, released before the markets opened, started the day off on a sour note. Sales of previously owned homes, which make up most of the housing market, tumbled 2.6 percent in June after a 2 percent increase in May, according to a private trade group.
 The report from the National Association of Realtors reinforced fears that the weak job market and scarcity of credit are discouraging Americans from buying homes. Those who may be in the market for a house may find it harder to take out a mortgage.
 Housing-related stocks were among the day's worst performers. Shares of Fannie Mae, which had recovered in recent days, dipped 20 percent. Its sister company, Freddie Mac, was off 18 percent. 
 The declines came a day after the House passed legislation aimed at shoring up the beleaguered mortgage buyers. The bill will potentially help hundreds of thousands of Americans avoid foreclosure with an infusion of government-backed loans and state financing. The Senate is expected to take up the bill this week and President Bush has said he will reluctantly sign it.
 But the Realtors' report suggested that the woes in the housing market would not end soon. June sales slowed to an annual rate of 4.86 million, adjusted for seasonal variables, after a 2 percent increase in May. Total sales were 15.5 percent below their level in June 2007.
 Western states reported higher sales, with a 1 percent increase. But every other region saw declines, with sales falling 6.6 percent in the Northeast, 3.4 percent in the Midwest and 3.1 percent in the South.
 Across the country, the decline came from a 3.2 percent drop in sales of single-family homes; apartment and condominium sales increased 1.7 percent for the month. 
 The report was ''a little bit of a catalyst'' for the stock market, said Richard Sparks, an analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research. But he said the declines in the Dow were more likely attributable to profit-taking after the market's recent gains. ''No one in a general sense was really expecting anything great out of those numbers anyway,'' he said, referring to the home sales report. 
 At the current sales rate, it would take more than 11 months to sell off the current inventory of unsold homes, and some economists thought that estimate may be understated.
 ''Inventories are very high relative to sales rates, and would probably be even more so if all those wishing to sell their home actually had the house on the market instead of pulling it off in the face of weak demand and eroding prices,'' wrote Joshua Shapiro, chief domestic economist at the research firm MFR.
 Home prices have risen modestly for the last four months, but they remain 6.1 percent below their level from a year ago. The median price of a previously owned home in June was $215,100. 
 Many Americans expect home prices to fall further in the next year, the Realtors group said, which means many would-be buyers are holding out. 
 Weak job prospects are also having a dampening effect. In a separate report on Thursday, the Labor Department said that new unemployment claims rose 34,000 last week to 406,000, the highest level since the month after Hurricane Katrina. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); FUTURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%); VOYAGEUR ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (54%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



621 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Growth Rate In New York Slows Down

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
The growth of New York City's economy slowed to a crawl at the start of this year, falling below the national growth rate after exceeding it for most of the last two years, according to a report released on Thursday by the city comptroller.
 The city's total output, known as the gross city product, increased by 0.8 percent in the first quarter of 2008, slower than the 1 percent growth in the gross domestic product, the comptroller's report showed. 
 Those figures marked a turnaround from the last quarter of 2007, when the city's output rose by 1.4 percent while the nation's increased just 0.6 percent.
 ''We were outpacing the national economy for a while there, certainly,'' said Frank Braconi, chief economist in the comptroller's office. ''We've kind of come back to earth in terms of converging with the national economy. The fact is that we have converged to a slowing national economy.''
 The city's economy had shown few symptoms of the national slowdown through the start of this year. Employment was still on the rise, tourism was booming and taxes collected on sales and income were continuing to grow.
 But as the turmoil in the financial markets that started last summer has persisted and spread, its effects have begun to show. Layoffs on Wall Street have mounted in the last few months. In June, the city's unemployment rate, which had been lower than the nation's, rose to 5.4 percent, about equal with the national rate, 5.5 percent.
 The city's growth rate in the first three months of the year was its lowest since the fall of 2003, when the local economy finally pulled out of a recession that started in 2001 and was aggravated by the terrorist attacks of 9/11. 
 Since then, the gross city product had grown by at least 2.8 percent every quarter through last fall, the comptroller's data showed.
 Already, city and state officials are wondering about the potential impact on the city's tax revenue and budget.
 ''The greatest risk to the city's budget is the extent and the depth of the slowdown, particularly as it affects Wall Street,'' said Kenneth B. Bleiwas, the deputy state comptroller for New York City. ''Nobody knows how long it will take to get through this mess.''
 Economists were divided over whether the nation was in the throes of a recession, but until now, there had been general agreement that New York City's economy, while slowing, was not in recession. 
 However, the comptroller's report, along with other indicators, suggests that if there is a full-blown national recession, the city's economy is likely to fall into one as well. Some said that with the fallout from the troubles on Wall Street so concentrated in the metropolitan area, the local economy could wind up in a recession even if the national economy rebounded. 
 William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, said he was not forecasting a recession for the local economy. Instead, he said, ''we're hitting a period where we would be stagnant.'' 
 Mr. Braconi said the state and the city had entered a ''period of unusually low growth'' that could last three or four years. He said there was no sign that a particular sector was likely to lead the city back to faster growth, as real estate development has done in the past.
 ''Where would the positive jolt to the economy come from?'' Mr. Braconi said. ''We don't see any place that it could possibly come from.''
 Mr. Thompson said he was ''concerned'' about the city's economy, but added: ''Then again, we have seen the city come through tougher times and bounce back stronger than ever.''
 He was alluding to the period from 2001 to 2003, when the city was mired in a recession long after the national economy had recovered and was growing again. 
 An analysis of the federal government's measure of the economic output of metropolitan areas from 2001 through 2005 showed that several, including Washington, Miami and Los Angeles, grew faster than the New York area, according to the comptroller.
 But, he said, the New York metropolitan area, which contains 6.6 percent of the nation's population, still contributed an outsize share of the gross domestic product in 2005, 9.1 percent of the total. ''Those in Washington who are making policy decisions may want to factor in how important this metropolitan area is to the nation,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CITIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); LAYOFFS (66%); TERRORISM (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



622 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Put Shares In a Tailspin

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A sharp drop in June home sales started the stock market off on a sour note Thursday and new worries about banks sent shares into a slide.
 Financial shares plunged, snapping a six-session winning streak, as profit-taking dragged the Dow Jones industrial average down 283.10 points, or 2.43 percent, to 11,349.28, its worst loss in a month. 
 ''We've had such a strong run especially in the financials,'' said Ryan Larson, a trader at Voyageur Asset Management. ''A lot of people are taking money off the table.'' 
 Poor earnings at a regional bank, National City, and a gloomy report on the savings and loan, Washington Mutual, were two of the more obvious catalysts. And the disappointing home sales report for June renewed worries that the housing crisis could hound banks for months to come.
 The sell-off in financial shares brought down the broader market. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 29.65 points, or 2.31 percent, to 1,252.54, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 45.77 points, or 1.97 percent, to 2,280.11. 
 A glance at the day's worst performers highlighted the overlap between bank woes and mortgage troubles. Shares of Fannie Mae, the mortgage buyer, dipped 20 percent despite a rebound in recent days. Its sister company, Freddie Mac, was off 18 percent.
 Shares of National City lost 2 percent after the Cleveland-based bank reported a $1.8 billion loss for the second quarter. It increased its reserves to $1.6 billion to protect against losses, more than 10 times the level from a year ago. ''We aren't going to be in a big hurry to declare that the corner has been turned and it all gets better from here,'' said the chief executive, Peter E. Raskind.
 Shares of Washington Mutual, which reported a $3.3 billion loss on Tuesday, fell 13.8 percent after losing more than 20 percent on Wednesday. 
 An analyst at Gimme Credit suggested that many of the bank's creditors were ''quietly pulling funds,'' a claim the bank called misguided.
 The report, however, forced Washington Mutual to take the unusual step of issuing a statement about its financial strength for the second time in a week.
 A California savings and loan, Downey Financial, watched its stock drop 34 percent after announcing its fourth consecutive loss and a shake-up in management. The bank said it was exploring ''strategic alternatives,'' which most likely means a sale, analysts said, given the challenge of raising capital.
 Big banks like Citigroup and Lehman Brothers, which had record gains in the last week, plunged. As a group, shares of financial firms listed in the S.& P. 500 lost 6.3 percent Thursday.
 Oil prices also moved higher. Crude oil futures settled $1.05 higher, at $125.49 a barrel in New York trading.
 Before the market opened, the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of previously owned homes, which make up most of the housing market, tumbled 2.6 percent in June after a 2 percent increase in May. The report reinforced fears that a weak job market and tight credit were discouraging home buyers. 
 June sales slowed to an annual rate of 4.86 million, adjusted for seasonal variables. Total sales were 15.5 percent below their level in June 2007.
 Western states reported higher sales, with a 1 percent increase. But every other region saw declines, with sales falling 6.6 percent in the Northeast, 3.4 percent in the Midwest and 3.1 percent in the South.
 Across the country, the decline came from a 3.2 percent drop in sales of single-family homes; apartment and condominium sales increased 1.7 percent for the month.
 The report was ''a little bit of a catalyst'' for the stock market, said Richard Sparks, an analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research. He said, however, that the declines in the Dow industrials were more likely attributable to profit-taking after the market's recent gains.
 At the current sales rate, it would take more than 11 months to sell the current inventory of unsold homes, and some economists thought that estimate may be understated.
 ''Inventories are very high relative to sales rates, and would probably be even more so if all those wishing to sell their home actually had the house on the market instead of pulling it off in the face of weak demand and eroding prices,'' wrote Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at the research firm MFR.
 Home prices have risen modestly for the last four months, but they remain 6.1 percent below a year ago. The median price of a previously owned home in June was $215,100.
 Many Americans expect home prices to fall further in the next year, the Realtors group said, and many would-be buyers may be holding out.
 In a separate report on Thursday, the Labor Department said that new unemployment claims rose 34,000 last week, to 406,000, the highest level since the month after Hurricane Katrina.
 In the bond market, the price of the 10-year note rose 30/32, to 99. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, dipped to 4 percent, from 4.12 percent on Wednesday.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of five-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. Chart details daily activity.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing singlefamily homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. Chart details bar graph.
 Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted.(Source: National Association of Realtors) Chart details line graph.(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); FUTURES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); VOYAGEUR ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%); U S BANCORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); USB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



623 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1940 words

HEADLINE: Charleston On the Cheap

BYLINE: By CHRIS DIXON

 BODY:
WHEN celebrities and other well-heeled travelers fell in love with Charleston, S.C., drawn by its air of 19th-century elegance and its palm-fringed seacoast setting, the $400-a-night hotel room and the $100 dinner entree inevitably followed. But this progressive and mystically lovely city, surrounded by water and wilderness, can still be a destination for the budget-conscious, too. 
 Many of the area's most captivating historic attractions are essentially free. Beaches and an outstanding farmers' market are open to all, and the sweet tea and fabulous food can be found in off-the-beaten-path restaurants well known to the locals. With some careful shopping in advance, even a hotel room or condo can be affordable. 
 In summer or early fall, Charleston's renowned bed-and-breakfasts are pricey and may be booked solid. But there are hidden gems. The Cottage Room at Palmer's Pinckney Inn, just off East Bay Street near the old market, can be had for $150 a night on weekends and $135 midweek. For an additional $5, you can have a hot breakfast at the majestic Palmer Home Bed and Breakfast and access to its pool and its broad porch overlooking Charleston Harbor. 
 The NotSoHostel is a basic but homey little compound of 19th-century homes and valuable parking spaces off busy Spring Street. Private rooms with shared baths start at $60 a night, and if you don't mind risking snoring neighbors, you can bed down in a bunk room for $21. The hostel offers bike rentals (highly recommended for exploring downtown nooks and crannies), linens, Wi-Fi and full kitchen with a cook-your-own waffle breakfast. 
 You might also book a vacation property directly from its owner through VRBO.com. Listed amid expensive Isle of Palms beach houses you'll find condos for $100 to $150 a night in the charming, walkable and often overlooked Old Village section of Mount Pleasant -- near Sullivan's Island beaches and Charleston's stunning walkable and bikable Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge.
 If you're in for a weekend, your first Saturday stop should be the Farmers Market at Marion Square Park. It runs April into December and features the wares of local food growers and juried local artisans, along with pony rides and regional musical acts from gospel to bluegrass. Stop among the stroller-pushing couples and skateboard-toting students from the College of Charleston for heirloom tomatoes, otherworldy peaches or some mesclun from growers like Rita's Roots. A graduate of the College of Charleston, Rita Bachmann, 26, worked organic farms in central California and New York State before returning to the South Carolina Lowcountry. From a plot on nearby Wadmalaw Island, she has become a local hero of Charleston's slow food and community-supported agriculture movements. 
 Among the vendors of prepared food who are supplied by Ms. Bachmann are Angie and Traci Colyer of Savory Catering. Turn a brunch appetite toward a bowl of their local shrimp and grits ($6) or a slice of vine-ripe tomato pie ($5) filled with fresh basil and herb cream sauce and topped with puff pastry. 
 Roam on among the artisans and tourists, and when the summer heat gets to you, recharge in the shaded courtyard or the air-conditioned indoors at Kudu Coffee, an African-themed gallery and coffeehouse that has become a gathering place for musicians, students and professionals. After a blended frappe of Zimbabwe espresso (worth every penny of $4.95), you'll be ready for a walk through the emerging Upper King design district. 
 As the lower reaches of King Street have attracted national chain stores, the palmetto-lined row of century-old retail spaces north of Marion Square has become a magnet for new restaurants, boutiques and home design businesses. Amid many still-vacant storefronts, you'll find pioneering retailers like Andrea Serrano, a Brooklyn native who moved to Charleston three years back with her husband, Gustavo, to open B'zar, a lower Manhattan-worthy streetwear boutique. B'zar sponsors local fashion shows and carries clothes by Dope Couture, Crooks and Castles and Obey (T-shirts are $33 to $40), the subversive art and clothing company launched two decades ago by a Charleston native, Shepherd Fairey. 
 Farther up are Wonderland, a children's boutique, and Global Awakening, an eclectic little shop that sells organic cotton clothing, jewelry fashioned by local craftsmen and unusual goods like soaps ($5.99) from the Enterprising Kitchen, which employs economically disadvantaged women in Chicago. 
 Just behind Upper King lies St. Philip Street, gateway to the ivy- and oak-draped College of Charleston and the lower peninsula's gorgeous historic neighborhoods. You may want to stop into the Redux Contemporary Art Studios, a nonprofit gallery; admission is free. It will also cost you nothing, after that, to continue a meandering walk down St. Philip, through the gorgeous square at Saint George Street and down to the graveyard of St. Philip's Church, resting place of John C. Calhoun, the pre-Civil War senator and vice president, and Dubose Heyward, author of the novel ''Porgy'' and the libretto of George Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess.'' 
 On smaller streets like Archdale and Legare (pronounced Le-GREE), you'll wander among 200-year-old neighborhoods that feel alternately French and English before reaching White Point Gardens along Charleston's historic waterfront battery. 
 For dinner, take a trolley for $1.25 back up to King Street to Monza for Neapolitan-style pizzas ($7 to $12) topped with local cheeses, meats and vegetables, or to Raval, a dark and sumptuous little wine and tapas bar where a glass of house red or white will set you back only $5.50. 
 Downtown Charleston can keep you busy as long as you want to stay. But if the weather is hot, take a short drive from downtown to the beach. 
 Folly Beach is a funky surfer's village of dense trees and tumbledown houses. One of Charleston's best breakfasts can be found at Folly's Lost Dog Cafe. Sit on the porch of this old beach house and enjoy pancakes and fruit ($5.75) or biscuits with sausage gravy ($4.95).
 Folly's most beautiful beach can be found by driving all the way up to Folly Island's north end along East Ashley Avenue and parking at the dead end. Walk or take your bike through the gate and head a quarter-mile north past the foundation of an old Coast Guard station, and you'll find yourself on a secluded and protected beach in the shadow of the spooky old lighthouse that stands guard over Morris Island. After a conservation battle that lasted more than a decade, this uninhabited barrier island is soon to become a public park. Swimming is safe here; just don't go out beyond the breakwater. 
 Heading back out of Folly, take in a few sights most visitors never see. At 1409 Folly Road, on James Island, you'll find a nondescript and nearly abandoned old strip mall called the Berle Shopping Center. The mall is home to a popular little bar called Buffalo South, but what lies behind is an astonishing series of graffiti murals by a local artist, Douglas Panzone. A quick drive-by is well worth the time. 
 Adjacent to the shopping center is oak-shrouded Riverland Drive, a seven-mile-long shortcut to the largely rural Johns Island. If the beach made you hungry, the barbecued pork and chicken at JB's Smokeshack on the island will make you happy. A large sandwich plate with excellent baked beans, slaw or potato salad is $6.15, but if you have the appetite, opt for a buffet ($8.39) with barbecued meats and sides that include barbecue pork hash, okra gumbo, sweet potatoes and butter beans. 
 Down a quiet dirt road about a mile and half from JB's, in a small park, stands a live oak known as the Angel Oak, reputed to be 1,400 years old but really more like 300 or 400. At 65 feet, it's not particularly tall, but it more than makes up for that with a trunk circumference of some 25 feet and a shaded canopy extending out over 17,000 square feet -- more than a third of an acre. Admission to the park is free, but the little shack beneath the canopy is a city-run gift shop whose proceeds go to maintaining the park. 
 On the way back into Charleston along Maybank Highway, you'll find an eclectic small neighborhood called Riverland Terrace, with a beautiful riverfront park and two well-stocked antiques stores, Attic Treasures and Terrace Oaks Antique Mall, and the hip little Terrace shopping center. The Terrace Theater is Charleston's only true independent movie theater. In recent months, it has hosted the surf films ''Bra Boys'' and ''Surfwise,'' and a Heath Ledger film festival. Tickets are $9 and the selection of over 50 beers and a multitude of wines will keep you happy even if the film's a tear-jerker. 
 Just next to the Terrace on Maybank, the Mustard Seed is part of a small chain of South Carolina restaurants and is remarkably affordable considering the quality and consistency of its largely local menu. If you're on a super tight budget, you could eat well from a couple of baskets of its delicious rosemary bread and a caprese salad ($7). There's a delicious sweet potato ravioli for $10, and most specials, often featuring local fish, seldom exceed $20.
 Just across the street, in a nondescript wooden building, is the Pour House, which features live entertainment and a new outdoor stage and bar. Acts range from Leon Russell to North Carolina bluegrass to reggae to a Phish tribute band called Strange Design; weekend admission generally runs around $12. Head back into town for drinks and a stellar sunset from the roof of downtown's beautiful Market Pavilion hotel. Its newest specialty drink is a sweet tea martini (fresh lemonade, Firefly Sweet Tea Vodka and a lemon wheel garnish) for $12. Pricey, but still not a bad deal for the best view in town. 
 VISITOR INFORMATION
 WHERE TO STAY 
 Palmer's Pinckney Inn, 19 Pinckney Street; (843) 722-1733; www.pinckneyinn.com.
 NotSoHostel, 156 Spring Street; (843) 722-8383; www.notsohostel.com.
 WHERE TO EAT AND DRINK
 Kudu Coffee, 4 Vanderhorst Street; (843) 853-7186; www.iheartkudu.com.
 Monza, 451 King Street; (843) 720-8787; www.monzapizza.com.
 Raval, 453 King Street; (843) 853-8466; www.ravalwinebar.com.
 Folly's Lost Dog Cafe, 106 West Huron Street, Folly Beach; (843) 588-9669; www.follybeach.com/lostdogcafemenu.php.
 JB's Smokeshack, 3406 Maybank Highway, Johns Island; (843) 557-0426; www.jbssmokeshack.com.
 Mustard Seed on Maybank, 1978 Maybank Highway; (843) 762-0072. 
 Market Pavilion hotel, 225 East Bay Street; (843) 723-0500; www.marketpavilion.com.
 WHAT TO SEE 
 Farmers Market at Marion Square Park;www.charlestoncity.info/dept/content.aspx?nid=553. 
 Redux Contemporary Art Studios, 136 St. Philip Street; (843) 722-0697; www.reduxstudios.org.
 St. Philip's Church, 142 Church Street; (843) 722-7734; www.stphilipschurchsc.org.
 Berle Shopping Centermurals, 1409 Folly Road, James Island; www.webmaster.ccpblogs.com/2008/06/05/photos-the-sickest-murals-in-charleston.
 Angel Oak, 3688 Angel Oak Drive, Johns Island; (843) 559-3496; www.charlestoncity.info/dept/content.aspx?nid=1027.
 Terrace Theater, 1956D Maybank Highway; (843) 762-4247; www.terracetheater.com.
 Pour House, 1977 Maybank Highway; (843) 571-4343; www.charlestonpourhouse.com. 
 WHERE TO SHOP 
 B'zar, 541 King Street; (843) 579-2889; www.shopbzar.com.
 Wonderland, 511 King Street; (843) 577-0079; www.wonderlandlove.com. 
 Global Awakening, 499 King Street; (843) 577-8579; www.globalawakeningmarket.com.
 Attic Treasures, 2024 Wappoo Drive; 843-762-0418.
 Terrace Oaks Antique Mall,
 2037 Maybank Highway; (843) 795-9689; www.terraceoaksantiques.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEET UP: The NotSoHostel offers private and bunk rooms in 19th-century homes.
AFFORDABLE: Upper King Street, top
photographing a Douglas Panzone mural, middle
Amanda Russell, left, and Raegan Powell at the farmers' market at Marion Square, above left
 Manny Colon and his son, Manny, at Folly Beach, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) MAP Map details area of Charleston. (pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); BEACHES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); AGRICULTURE (75%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (72%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); GARDENING (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (96%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



624 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'SOME AMERICANS ABROAD'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: This Blessed Plot, Those Incurable Anglophiles

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
If the mere sight of a tea cozy sends you into paroxysms of pleasure, you might enjoy the revival of Richard Nelson's putative comedy ''Some Americans Abroad'' that opened Thursday night at the Second Stage Theater. But only frantically Anglophile theatergoers -- maybe pathologically Anglophile theatergoers -- are likely to derive much joy from this limp two hours of high-toned cultural tourism in the company of uninteresting American academics.
 The title all but announces the play's antiquity, doesn't it? ''Some Americans Abroad'' is set in 1989, when it was first staged at the Royal Shakespeare Theater, back in those halcyon days when not just some but many Americans could afford to travel abroad. Quite a few of the laughs I got from the show were of a darkly bitter flavor, inspired by the American characters talking enthusiastically of the insane bargains to be had in Old Blighty. Today you need to take out a mortgage for afternoon tea in London. If you can find a bank to give you one, that is. 
 I digress, but then ''Some Americans Abroad'' is a talky and digressive play. The opening scene is a chat-fest at an Italian restaurant in Covent Garden presided over by Joe Taylor (Tom Cavanagh), the young chairman of the English department at an unnamed but fancy American university. Joe and a few of his colleagues are in England to teach a summer course in theater to students from their institution.
 Days and nights are spent at the National Theater and in Stratford-upon-Avon; at Foyles bookstore in London among the shelves of lit crit; on a field trip to Rye to visit the famous Lamb House, where Henry James once lived, writing his decidedly more momentous stories of Americans abroad. The audience trails along after Joe and his colleagues, eavesdropping on their shallow debates about the merits of Shaw, and waiting more or less in vain for something interesting to occur. 
 The central dilemma in the play finds Joe agonizing over how to tell a fellow professor, Henry McNeil (Anthony Rapp), that he will be out of a job come the fall. Henry's unfitness for the faculty apparently boils down to having a degree from an insufficiently impressive college. On that visit to Rye, Joe is encouraged by both the ex-chairman of the department, the tactless and pompous Orson Baldwin (an amusingly snooty John Cunningham), and his colleague Philip Brown (Corey Stoll) to give Henry the bad news right away. 
 Still Joe hesitates, a glimmer of humanity still alive in him somewhere alongside all those brilliant ideas for a monograph about ''Antony and Cleopatra.'' While he's weaseling out of facing up to this task, Joe is presented with another problem involving a female student who has gone AWOL from the relentless theatergoing, apparently to chase around with a boy from Amherst.
 If Mr. Nelson's primary aim is to satirize the tendency of overeducated Americans to worship at the altar of all things English, the comic point is mostly dulled into obscurity in this revival. (When the visitors gather in a final scene to sing a chorus of ''God Save the Queen,'' it's not so much funny as baffling.) In Joe's condescending attitude to Henry, Mr. Nelson may be intimating that Britain-worshipping Americans have imported all the wrong things from the mother country, beginning with class snobbery. But this idea gets lost as the sex-scandal subplot in the second act moves to center stage.
 The production, directed by Gordon Edelstein, proceeds at a leaden pace. Mr. Edelstein seems to believe all the pauses in the dialogue are authentically freighted with ambiguity and subtext. But onstage as in life some silences are just awkward. Since we get no glimpses of appealing inner lives from these characters, when they stumble through their awkward moments, we do not agonize with them; we get impatient.
 For the most part the actors give respectable accounts of their characters. Mr. Cavanagh, former star of the television series ''Ed,'' is suitably priggish as the diffident Joe, Mr. Rapp touchingly abject as the desperate Henry. The arguably even wispier female roles are competently played by Emily Bergl, as Henry's resentful wife; Enid Graham as a professor secretly carrying on with a colleague; and Cristin Milioti as Joe's daughter, Katie.
 Halley Feiffer gives a performance that's fussy but fun as an expatriate former student of Joe's who has arranged all the theater tickets. She giggles and prattles about the irritations of giggling and prattling Americans, blissfully unaware that she is a sterling example of the type. No doubt this caricature of a gauche American, and the walk-on role of a still more buffoonish Yankee who accosts Joe at the theater, helped endear the play to the British. (The play was nominated for an Olivier Award for best comedy.)
 But there is less to endear it to New Yorkers today, particularly given the incredible shrinking dollar and the generally bruising economic climate. The appetite it might whet for a London theater spree could be seriously detrimental to the retirement account.
 SOME AMERICANS ABROAD
 By Richard Nelson; directed by Gordon Edelstein; sets by Michael Yeargan; costumes by Jennifer von Mayrhauser; lighting by Donald Holder; original music and sound by John Gromada; production stage manager, Charles M. Turner III; stage manager, Courtney James; associate artistic director, Christopher Burney; production manager, Robert G. Mahon III; general manager, Don-Scott Cooper. Presented by the Second Stage Theater, Carole Rothman, artistic director; Ellen Richard, executive director. At the Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Manhattan; (212) 246-4422. Through Aug. 2. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes. 
 WITH: Emily Bergl (Betty McNeil), Tom Cavanagh (Joe Taylor), John Cunningham (Orson Baldwin), Fiona Dourif (Donna Silliman), Enid Graham (Frankie Lewis), Halley Feiffer (Joanne Smith), Cristin Milioti (Katie Taylor), Pamela Payton-Wright (Harriet Baldwin), Anthony Rapp (Henry McNeil), Corey Stoll (Philip Brown) and Todd Weeks (an American). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some Americans Abroad: Academics can't get enough of England in Richard Nelson's play at the Second Stage.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
American professors in London: Tom Cavanagh, left, and Anthony Rapp in Richard Nelson's ''Some Americans Abroad.''
 A scene from the play at the Second Stage Theater, directed by Gordon Edelstein.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); THEATER (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (93%)

TITLE: Some Americans Abroad (Play)>; Some Americans Abroad (Play)>

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



625 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2794 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: July 25, 2008

 BODY:
International
 AFTER KARADZIC'S CAPTURE,
 Pain Endures in Bosnia
 The West celebrated the capture this week of Radovan Karadzic, the wartime leader of the Bosnian Serbs accused of masterminding the worst massacre since World War II. But in Srebrenica, Bosnia, where the massacre took place, locals said they had little faith in a legal process undertaken by the United Nations tribunal in the Hague 13 years after the hunt for Mr. Karadzic began. PAGE A6 
 35 DEAD IN SOUTHERN AFGHANISTAN
 Fierce fighting broke out in southern Afghanistan when scores of Taliban insurgents attacked an Afghan Army convoy on the main highway south of the capital. Afghan officials said that the Taliban were beaten back by soldiers and police officers, that 35 insurgents were killed, including several foreign fighters, and that five were captured. PAGE A12 
 8 DIE IN IRAQ BOMBING
 A huge explosion on one of the main thoroughfares in Baquba, Iraq, killed a pro-American Sunni militia leader, a police captain, a local politician and five other people. The blast was at first believed to be a car bomb, but evidence later discovered suggested that a female suicide bomber might have been responsible. It would be at least the 16th time that women have donned bombs and exploded themselves in Diyala Province since last year. PAGE A2 
 MOSLEY WINS SUIT AGAINST TABLOID
 A judge in London ruled that a British tabloid newspaper breached the privacy of Max Mosley, the overseer of grand prix motor racing, when it published a story in March claiming he had participated in a sadomasochistic ''orgy'' with a Nazi theme. Mr. Mosley was awarded damages equivalent to about $120,000, as well as legal costs in his suit against the newspaper, The News of the World. PAGE A6 
 NEW MUSEUM TO OPEN IN GAZA
 The first museum of archaeology in Gaza will open this summer, showing how this increasingly poor and isolated coastal strip, ruled by the Islamists of Hamas, was once a thriving multicultural crossroad. While the display might be pretty standard stuff shown most anywhere else -- arrowheads, Roman anchors, Bronze Age vases and Byzantine columns -- life is now so gray in Gaza that the museum, with its glimpses of a rich, outward-looking history, seems somehow dazzling. PAGE A8 
 AN AEROBIC TREND IN CHINA
 Mostly considered the domain of strippers in the United States, pole dancing is China's newest, and most controversial, fitness activity. Pole dancing -- but with clothes kept on -- is nudging its way into the mainstream Chinese exercise market, with increasing numbers of gyms and dance schools offering classes. PAGE A13 
 NATIONAL
 COMMITTEE ON SHRINERS CHARITIES
 Finds Internal Ethics Violations
 The findings of an investigative committee established by the joint boards of the Shriners of North America fraternal organization and the Shriners Hospitals for Children offer a glimpse into the inner workings of what is the nation's wealthiest charity. They also suggest that questionable financial dealings identified at local Shrine temples may also plague the national organization. The committee found that the chairman of the Shriners Hospitals board of trustees and another board member violated the organizations' conflict-of-interest policy as well as their ethics code. PAGE A14 
 WHY THE NORTHERN LIGHTS DANCE
 Researchers working on a NASA mission to understand the interplay of magnetic fields and charged particles blown outward from the sun have identified the trigger for the colorful electrical storms in the polar regions. They hope this is a step in developing reliable forecasts of geomagnetic storms that can disrupt satellites in orbit and electric power grids on the ground. PAGE A14 
 DETAILS ON STATUS OF C.I.A. METHODS
 When Central Intelligence Agency interrogators used waterboarding and other harsh techniques on Qaeda suspects, agency rules required records of each method used, its duration and the names of everyone present, according to heavily redacted government documents obtained by the American Civil Liberties Union. PAGE A19 
 MCCAIN'S VERY LONG WEEK
 While Senator Barack Obama met one-on-one with Israeli and Palestinian leaders, Senator John McCain was in a Pennsylvania supermarket awkwardly shopping with a mother and her son. Mr. McCain's plans to steal the spotlight from his Democratic rival by visiting an oil drilling platform were then upended by Hurricane Dolly. For the presumptive Republican nominee, there's always next week. PAGE A18 
 ONLINE GIVING SYSTEM GOES GREEN
 GlobalGiving, the online system through which donors can give money to support international charitable projects, is going green. The group will introduce a new Web site, GlobalGiving Green, listing 25 projects that it has determined entail minimal greenhouse gas emissions. PAGE A15 
 OHIO THIEF IS SENTENCED
 The man who masterminded what is believed to be one of the largest thefts in Ohio history, Roger L. Dillon, was sentenced to eight years in prison. Mr. Dillon, 23, said he carried out the theft of more than $8 million from the vault of the armored car company where he worked because he felt frustrated by a difficult upbringing. PAGE A16 
 Citizen Journalist Project a Year Old A18 
 BUSINESS
 STREAK OVER AS SHARES PLUNGE
 In Dow's Worst Loss in a Month
 Investors who had been thinking the worst might be over for bank stocks reached a slightly different conclusion Thursday: take the money and run. Financial shares plunged, snapping a six-session winning streak, as a dash for profits dragged the Dow Jones industrials down 283 points, its worst loss in a month. PAGE C1 
 A SPLIT OVER MENTHOLS
 Free cigarettes are no longer handed out at Congressional Black Caucus functions. And it has been years since anyone referred to Edolphus Towns, Democrat of Brooklyn, as the ''Marlboro Man'' for his campaign contributions from the tobacco industry. But the Congressional Black Caucus has not severed its financial ties to big tobacco. And that can complicate matters when the political discussion involves smoking's impact on African-Americans. PAGE C1 
 WHAT'S IN IT FOR YOU
 If you're ignoring the housing bailout bill because you think it only benefits troubled homeowners, you may miss out on a windfall. The bill does offer incentives to overextended borrowers and mortgage lenders. But it also includes a host of handouts to first-time home buyers, longtime homeowners, returning veterans and senior citizens seeking to tap their home equity. PAGE C1 
 UBS ACCUSED OF FRAUD
 The attorney general of New York accused UBS of consumer and securities fraud, saying the bank misled investors when it sold them auction-rate securities last winter. Even as an executive at UBS called the market ''a complete loser,'' the bank pitched the securities as short-term investments, according to the complaint. PAGE C7 
 Metro 'GOOD KID' GETS DAY IN COURT,
 Again and Again
 Yiskar Caceres had been arrested three times on cocaine charges and had pleaded guilty to each one. And that came after four arrests for marijuana. A judge gave Mr. Caceres, 19, yet another chance, but three months later, he was back in jail. Inside the thinking of a repeat offender. PAGE B1 
 THEY GET NO RESPECT
 At the end of one day, Agent Nathaniel W. O'Bleanis had been shoved, bitten on the arm and suffered a fractured knuckle. He had subdued a man with a headlock and brooked both a racial slur and a threat of being shot in the face. He is not a police officer. He is one of the city's 3,000 traffic agents, who this week achieved a level of respect many say was far too long coming: assaulting a traffic agent is now a felony. PAGE B1 
 Weekend
 THE DAY A DAREDEVIL 
 Danced Between the Towers
 The feat sounds like something stolen out of the recently revived ''Ocean's Eleven'' franchise. For almost 45 minutes on the morning of Aug. 7, 1974, a man balanced himself in the sky over Lower Manhattan, tightrope walking on a metal cable strung between the two World Trade Center towers. A.O. Scott writes that the cinematic bravado of French daredevil Philippe Petit's stunt may be why James Marsh felt compelled to make ''Man on Wire,'' a lovely, touching documentary. PAGE E1 
 TOO APT A NAME
 The basic premise of ''Pretty Ugly,'' a group exhibition split between Gavin Brown's Enterprise and the Maccarone Gallery in New York City, is that our ideas of beauty in art are changing. But we have known that for years, Holland Cotter writes. Pretty and ugly have been the poles of contemporary figure painting for ages now. Merged together, they turn into weird. And weirdness is what ''Pretty Ugly'' is about. PAGE E1 
 AN OLD BAG OF TRICKS FALLS FLAT
 If there there is such a thing as reincarnation for movies, ''Step Brothers,'' produced by Judd Apatow and Jimmy Miller, is an argument against the practice, Manohla Dargis writes. The film stars Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly, playing two slackers who become forced brothers and eventually turn friends. In a previous life this movie went by ''Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby,'' and was a lot funnier. PAGE E18 
 INSPIRED BY VIKINGS AND VOLCANOES
 As New York heads into one of the muggiest, most unbearable stretches of summer, the art world is enjoying a blast of Nordic cool. ''The New York City Waterfalls'' by the Danish-Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson is drawing crowds to the downtown waterfront, while ''Arctic Hysteria,'' an exhibition of artists from Finland, is at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Queens. A review by Karen Rosenberg. PAGE E2 
 Obituaries
 EUGENE A. FOSTER, 81
 A pathologist, he helped establish genetically the long liaison between Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States, and his slave mistress Sally Hemings. A long line of Jefferson historians had concluded that the affair was unthinkable. PAGE B7 
 RICHARD C. WADE, 87
 An urban historian, he helped put cities on the map as an academic subject and advised Democratic candidates including Adlai Stevenson, Robert F. Kennedy and George McGovern. At the University of Chicago, his application of social-science techniques to the analysis of cities decisively influenced students like Kenneth T. Jackson and Howard P. Chudacoff. PAGE B7 
 Weekend
 THE DAY A DAREDEVIL 
 Danced Between the Towers
 The feat sounds like something stolen out of the recently revived ''Ocean's Eleven'' franchise. For almost 45 minutes on the morning of Aug. 7, 1974, a man balanced himself in the sky over Lower Manhattan, tightrope walking on a metal cable strung between the two World Trade Center towers. A.O. Scott writes that the cinematic bravado of French daredevil Philippe Petit's stunt may be why James Marsh felt compelled to make ''Man on Wire,'' a lovely, touching documentary. PAGE E1 
 TOO APT A NAME
 The basic premise of ''Pretty Ugly,'' a group exhibition split between Gavin Brown's Enterprise and the Maccarone Gallery in New York City, is that our ideas of beauty in art are changing. But we have known that for years, Holland Cotter writes. Pretty and ugly have been the poles of contemporary figure painting for ages now. Merged together, they turn into weird. And weirdness is what ''Pretty Ugly'' is about. PAGE E1 
 AN OLD BAG OF TRICKS FALLS FLAT
 If there there is such a thing as reincarnation for movies, ''Step Brothers,'' produced by Judd Apatow and Jimmy Miller, is an argument against the practice, Manohla Dargis writes. The film stars Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly, playing two slackers who become forced brothers and eventually turn friends. In a previous life this movie went by ''Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby,'' and was a lot funnier. PAGE E18 
 INSPIRED BY VIKINGS AND VOLCANOES
 As New York heads into one of the muggiest, most unbearable stretches of summer, the art world is enjoying a blast of Nordic cool. ''The New York City Waterfalls'' by the Danish-Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson is drawing crowds to the downtown waterfront, while ''Arctic Hysteria,'' an exhibition of artists from Finland, is at P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Queens. A review by Karen Rosenberg. PAGE E2 
 Obituaries
 EUGENE A. FOSTER, 81
 A pathologist, he helped establish genetically the long liaison between Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States, and his slave mistress Sally Hemings. A long line of Jefferson historians had concluded that the affair was unthinkable. PAGE B7 
 RICHARD C. WADE, 87
 An urban historian, he helped put cities on the map as an academic subject and advised Democratic candidates including Adlai Stevenson, Robert F. Kennedy and George McGovern. At the University of Chicago, his application of social-science techniques to the analysis of cities decisively influenced students like Kenneth T. Jackson and Howard P. Chudacoff. PAGE B7 
 ESCAPES
 DOING CHARLESTON
 On the Cheap
 Its 19th-century elegance, palm-fringed seacoast setting and $400-a-night hotel rooms notwithstanding, Charleston, S. C., can still be a destination for the budget-conscious. Among its pricey bed-and-breakfasts are hidden, affordable gems. And it helps that many of its most captivating attractions are essentially free: Beaches and an outstanding farmers' market are open to all. PAGE F1 
 GETTING ALL OF IT THERE AND BACK
 People who pack for trips involving air travel must be mindful of the added charges they might incur. But those who pack up every Friday night for the trip to the weekend home and repeat the process on Sunday for the trip back have their own issues. Many have adopted the rule for Noah's Ark: Two of everything. PAGE F1 
 WHERE THE AIR IS THIN
 Tourists and outdoorsy types are discovering the allure of Leadville, a postcard of a town a lung-searing 10,152 feet high in the Colorado Rockies. Mountain bikers and horseback riders hit the trails; hikers scale the 14,000-foot peaks that dominate the town's skyline; and anglers pull rainbows from high alpine lakes. ''It's not just another slick pop-up ski town,'' said one resident who had relocated from Vail. PAGE F7 
 Old Lyme, Pretty and Paintable F3 
 SPORTS
 BURYING THE PAST, 
 Patriots Focus on the Future
 Even after a devastating Super Bowl loss and a bruising off-season, the Patriots do not do public pathos. At the opening of their training camp, they began the new season by channeling the focus that got them through a spying scandal and put them on the verge of a perfect season. ''Two words: What's next?'' linebacker Tedy Bruschi said. PAGE D3 
 IRAQI ATHLETES MAY SKIP OLYMPICS
 The International Olympic Committee said that it was ''very unlikely'' that Iraqi athletes would compete at the Beijing Games because the Iraqi government refused to reinstate the country's official Olympic committee in time to officially submit most of their names. The deadline to submit the names of competitors in all sports except track and field was Wednesday. PAGE D6 
 WORLD CUP DISPUTE GOES TO COURT
 This spring, just seven weeks after becoming a citizen of Qatar, a Brazilian-born midfielder helped his adoptive nation defeat, and ultimately eliminate, Iraq in a World Cup qualifying match. Now his participation in that game continues to roil Iraq's national soccer federation because he was ineligible to play. The Iraqi federation, citing the rules of soccer's world governing body, believes Qatar should have to forfeit the game and Iraq should be allowed to advance in the tournament. PAGE D7 
 Editorial
 INJURED WARRIORS, EMPTY PROMISES
 The bad news about the Army's treatment of wounded soldiers keeps coming. The generals keep apologizing and insisting things are getting better, but they are not. PAGE A20 
 PARTICULARLY BAD TIMING
 With the global economy slowing, prices soaring for oil and food and protectionist passions boiling up everywhere, it is an especially dangerous time to give up on international trade negotiations. PAGE A20 
 SOME REALITY, PLEASE
 The Senate needs to interrupt its mud-wrestling over partisan placebos for the gas crisis and debate something real: emergency help for the nation's poorest families who face skyrocketing home heating costs this winter. PAGE A20 
 Op-Ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 Barack Obama used the word ''walls'' 16 times in his Berlin speech, and in 11 of those cases, he was talking about walls coming down. He has grown accustomed to putting on this sort of saccharine show, but his words drift far from reality. PAGE A21 
 TO FIGHT POVERTY, TEAR DOWN HUD
 The Department of Housing and Urban Development has always tried to curb inequality, but is it just creating poverty elsewhere? In an Op-Ed article, Sudhir Venkatesh argues that we should dismantle the department and design a regional approach to revitalizing cities and suburbs. PAGE A21 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (91%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ARMIES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); ETHICS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); ARMED FORCES (70%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (70%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); TRENDS (69%); HAMAS (67%); ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); JUDGES (65%); DANCE EDUCATION (64%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (62%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (60%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



626 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK EXTRA

BYLINE: By PETER EDMONSTON

 BODY:
The Short Sales Syndrome
 James Cramer, the hedge fund manager turned ''Mad Money'' host, has proposed a solution to the raging controversy over short-selling. It mostly involves the troubled financial sector getting its act together -- and thus making itself immune to the ''carpet bombs'' that he says hedge funds have been raining down on vulnerable firms like Lehman Brothers.
 In a commentary in New York magazine headlined ''Get Shorties,'' Mr. Cramer looked at the recent debate over whether short-selling investors, notably hedge funds, have been responsible for some of the steep in financial shares of late. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission seemed to acknowledge that was the case last week when it enacted an emergency rule intended to curb an abusive form of short selling in 19 financial stocks -- although many on Wall Street had dismissed the move as little more than theatrics.
 Mr. Cramer said he believed that, in the current environment, almost any Wall Street firm could be taken down by short sellers. Consider what happened to Bear Stearns, he said: ''All the hedge funds had to do was sell Bear stock short in huge amounts, pull their money out of the firm, and tell everyone how worried they were about Bear's solvency.''
 The same fate could easily befall Lehman, he added.
 PETER EDMONSTON 
 Oil Patch Trouble
 It didn't get too much notice outside of the oil patch, but this week's bankruptcy filing by SemGroup L.P. -- which Forbes.com last year called the 12th-largest private company in the United States -- was one of the bigger corporate flame-outs of late. And there may be more where that came from.
 A recent report from Moody's Investors Service noted that 53 companies had its lowest speculative-grade liquidity rating at the end of June, which is more than 10 percent of its 490-company universe for these kinds of ratings. That hasn't happened since early 2003, Moody's said. 
 Of course, SemGroup was brought down by badly timed oil trades. 
 But Moody's does note that since 2002, the average annual default rate for companies rated SGL-4 -- which it says is for companies with ''weak liquidity'' -- has been nearly 19 percent.
 Among the names mentioned in Moody's latest report is Cablevision, the cable company that owns Madison Square Garden. 
 In October, Cablevision's shareholders voted down a $10.6 billion takeover bid from the Dolan family, the largest rejection of a buyout ever. Cablevision's shareholders would have gotten $36.26 a share in cash in that deal; the stock recently traded at about $21.80.
 Moody's says that Cablevision has enough cash flow and borrowing power to get through the middle of next year, but added that things look a bit worrisome after that. The report cited ''a potential material liquidity shortfall'' in the third quarter of 2009, when an additional $900 million of maturing obligations will need to be refinanced.
 While Cablevision may be able roll over the debt with no problem, other companies with weak liquidity might not be so lucky.
 PETER EDMONSTON 
 Street Squeeze
 Wall Street banks and brokerages may cut bonuses for their highly paid workers by about 20 percent this year, Gov. David Paterson, above right, said this week, estimating that each 10 percent reduction in bonus pay costs the state $350 million in tax revenues.
 At a news conference on Monday, the Democratic governor mocked economists who predict that the country will avoid a recession and resume economic growth next year. 
 ''This has finally confirmed to me that flying saucers have landed and that people from outer space are in our midst, influencing policy,'' he said. 
 Predicting the state could lose an estimated $1.7 billion from slumping profits for Wall Street firms, he forecast severe state budget cuts.
 New York's economy has long been dominated by financial companies. Last year, they paid $33.2 billion in bonuses, with the average employee collecting $180,420 in bonus pay.
 Mr. Paterson said he was considering lobbying federal officials for aid to entities like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and federally sponsored organizations, referring to the mortgage finance giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 Busts Gone By
 Analysts at Credit Suisse want you to think back to the days when grunge was getting big and ''Slacker'' was a cult movie hit.
 We're talking about the early 1990s, which is when shares of Citibank, as Citigroup was known at the time, bottomed out at about 0.4 times the company's book value, brought low by a legion of financial woes, including a real estate crash and recession. 
 Credit Suisse analysts led by Susan Roth Katzke think Citibank's previous slide offers some interesting parallels to the current slump in bank and brokerage stocks. 
 In a report published Thursday, Ms. Katzke said shares of Merrill Lynch, Lehman Brothers and Citigroup itself ''have followed the path of Citibank/1990 almost perfectly,'' reflecting the big piles of mortgage-related securities and other complex assets these firms held when the music stopped on Wall Street last summer.
 The report comes as some investors have been suggesting -- or just hoping? -- that the current financial crisis is easing up. Brokerage stocks are 40 percent above their recent lows, Credit Suisse said.
 During the 1990s debacle, Citi's shares fell 77 percent from their peak in October 1989 to their trough in December 1991, the report noted. Prince Walid bin Talal of Saudi Arabia led a daring bailout of the bank, becoming one of its biggest shareholders in the process.
 There was a period of about two years -- ending in late 1992 -- when Citi's shares twitched around in a relatively narrow range. That's not exactly comforting to today's investors, considering that we are only about one year into the current bust.
 PETER EDMONSTON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEON HALIP/CNBC)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); TAKEOVERS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%)

COMPANY: SEMGROUP CORP (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); FORBES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: SEMG (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486910 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS486110 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF CRUDE OIL (82%); NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (82%); NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



627 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Expands Visa Program To Help Iraqis

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Michael Kamber contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Helene Cooper from Washington.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
The American Embassy in Baghdad announced Thursday that it had expanded tenfold its program to help Iraqi employees of the American government here, who faced threats for their work, to obtain visas and ultimately citizenship in the United States.
 Although the program was established by law in January, it has become a practical reality just in the last two to three weeks as guidelines have been finalized and the embassy has brought in staff members and started processing applications. 
 The decision is the latest step in the administration's attempt to answer sharp criticism over its failure to help even those Iraqis who have made the American presence in Iraq possible by serving as translators and supervisors on embassy projects, for the American military and for the Agency for International Development. But critics in the refugee relief community noted that the State Department had promised several times that it would try to speed up the process, and that it had not come through. 
 State Department officials attribute the gap between words and deeds to a cumbersome refugee resettlement system that includes fingerprinting, job checks, name checks and interviews. 
 The program will allow 5,000 Iraqis to go to the United States for each of the next five years. Each person can take immediate family members, who include spouses and children. More distant relatives, including siblings, parents and grandchildren, can apply under another program. So the actual numbers emigrating will probably be considerably higher. The average Iraqi household is estimated to have about six people, according to officials from the International Organization for Migration. 
 Curiously, the new visas were announced in Baghdad, at the American Embassy, and not in Washington, where Gonzalo Gallegos, a State Department spokesman, said he was not initially aware that there was a report of an increase. ''One of the things is that we have been working to allow for a greater number of those Iraqis who did work for us to be able to come to the United States,'' he said. 
 Last year a similar program allowed only 500 Iraqi and Afghan translators to apply, and in 2006 the number was 50. This program, written by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Gordon H. Smith, Republican of Oregon, differs from previous ones because of its scale, because people can apply in Iraq and because they will receive transitional assistance during their first eight months in the United States. 
 Until this year, Iraqis seeking to emigrate had to go to Jordan, Syria or Egypt. For many the trip was too expensive or they were unable to get visas to gain entry to those countries. 
 A second program, also established in January, whose rules were announced about six weeks ago, allows Iraqi employees of American nonprofit organizations, media companies and contractors to apply directly for refugee status instead of waiting for a referral from the United Nations. Like the special immigrant visa program, they can apply in Iraq and will be given support initially in the United States. Technically, anyone who qualifies will be accepted, State Department officials said.
 But immigration experts warn that because there is a global cap on the number of refugees that the United States accepts and the slots are allocated by region -- with some flexibility -- it is possible that either Iraqi refugees will squeeze out others who are equally deserving or that not all Iraqi refugees who are eligible will be granted a space. 
 ''We have to push the U.S. to increase the number of refugees it resettles because this is a massive crisis and we do have primary responsibility,'' said Amelia Templeton, a refugee analyst at Human Rights First, an advocacy group based in New York. She added that the ceiling for the region that includes Iraq is 28,000 people and that the United States target for Iraqi refugees was 12,000. 
 Still, together these programs will cover many of the Iraqis who are at risk of being attacked as collaborators by anti-American groups in Iraq. Richard Albright, the State Department's senior coordinator for refugees and internally displaced people at the embassy in Baghdad, said that he did not believe that the 25,000 cap over five years would cover all American Embassy employees and translators. 
 The visa programs grew largely because of the combined lobbying efforts of ''refugee experts, nonprofit organizations, United States government employees who worked in Iraq and American soldiers and marines,'' Ms. Templeton said. 
 American military officers and State Department employees who were loyal to the Iraqi translators with whom they had worked were forceful in personalizing the plight of Iraqis who were imperiled. Death threats were put on the Iraqis' windshields, bullets were left on their doorsteps, they or family members were kidnapped, and sometimes their homes were bombed. 
 Even if Iraqis make it to the United States, they face the difficulty of finding jobs and supporting family members. Often just one person in a family of six or eight speaks any English, making it difficult for the others to help the family with daily life and to hold down a job. Medical care, which is free in Iraq, must be paid for in the United States. Although it is possible for refugees to apply for Medicaid, there are bureaucratic obstacles that could prove daunting for people who do not speak English. 
 Elissa Mittman, national immigration director for the International Rescue Committee, called the move ''a step in the right direction.'' But she added that the State Department and Congress must still seek ways to expand the program, and to make sure that there was enough financing to help the new Iraqi immigrants once they arrived in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); REFUGEES (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); FAMILY (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: GORDON SMITH (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EGYPT (79%); SYRIA (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



628 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Sunlight On a 'Dark Market'

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Lawmakers have leveled some scathing adjectives at the IntercontinentalExchange, known as the ICE, a technology company whose electronic markets are at the center of fierce debates about commodity speculation raging in Congress recently. 
 It has been called shadowy, conspiratorial, unregulated and opaque. There have been hints, too, of links to market manipulation and even the Enron scandal.
 ''To be clear, ICE is a dark market,'' Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, said during a Senate debate in May. 
 The vitriol seems to roll off the back of Jeffrey C. Sprecher, the 53-year-old founder of the ICE, which started as a private, high-ticket eBay for market professionals to trade esoteric electricity and natural gas derivatives. 
 In eight years, the ICE has purchased three regulated futures exchanges, built its own clearinghouse and invested in its compliance operations. With profit of $240.6 million on 2007 revenue of $574.3 million, it has a market value of more than $6.5 billion, even after the battering financial stocks have taken this year -- and has been included in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index since last September. 
 Yet, time and again, Mr. Sprecher has sat at polished tables in Washington and listened as his brainchild was described as a murky bazaar where prices have been manipulated, and where speculators have run wild and driven up oil prices to the detriment of consumers and the global economy.
 By now, Mr. Sprecher, an engineer with modest small-town roots and a reputation for seeing around technological corners, has gotten a little testy about the ''unregulated'' label. The company's original business, the swaps-trading network, was once exempt from most federal regulation. But that's not true of the company today, he said.
 One ICE subsidiary, now called ICE Futures Europe, has been regulated in London for decades and is now also supervised by regulators in Washington. ICE Futures Canada, another ICE exchange that is a center for canola futures trading, is overseen by regulators in Winnipeg. ICE Futures US, a third subsidiary formerly called the New York Board of Trade, has long been monitored by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 And unlike virtually any other swaps-trading arrangement, ICE's derivatives network is now subject to regulation under provisions of the farm bill enacted last spring. 
 Indeed, some antispeculation bills proposed in Congress this summer simply codify steps that already have been imposed on the ICE. (An oil-market manipulation case announced Thursday by the C.F.T.C. did not involve trading on any ICE-owned exchanges.)
 The ICE as a dark market? ''It's absurd,'' Mr. Sprecher says. As he sees it, he may run ''the most regulated commodity exchanges in the country right now.'' 
 This summer's criticism contrasts sharply with earlier publicity about the ICE founder, who was being widely praised in market technology circles as recently as last year for helping to invent the markets not just for tomorrow, but for the day after tomorrow. (His company's name is ready-made for headline writers -- he has been called ''The Wizard of ICE'' in a feature on ''The ICE Age.'') 
 Although medicine and architecture once appealed to Mr. Sprecher as possible careers, engineering is the lens through which he instinctively looks at life. He graduated in 1978 from the University of Wisconsin with top grades in chemical engineering, and he went to work in Los Angeles for Trane, the air-conditioning giant.
 But he left Trane when he was 28, just as California began deregulating its electricity market, to form a power-plant construction company. His frustration with the state's approach to deregulation led him to develop an electronic exchange to do the job better -- which became the ICE.
 His brainchild, the original ICE trading network, allows giant traders with at least $100 million in assets to trade a host of so-called over-the-counter swaps. These complex instruments had previously changed hands exclusively through private telephone calls among individual traders, beyond the scrutiny of regulators. 
 Mr. Sprecher estimates that the ICE now handles about a tenth of all over-the-counter swaps involving natural gas and electricity, but does no business in crude oil swaps, which still trade privately by telephone. 
 Policy makers talk about regulating the over-the-counter swaps market, Mr. Sprecher said, ''but that is only possible because we've organized it -- there was no central way of knowing about it at all before us.''
 But now, Mr. Sprecher's new engineering task is to prove that the company's technical prowess can be as effective at policing traders as it has been at empowering them.
 One reason he faced such skepticism in Congress is that the pioneer in energy-swaps trading was Enron, which collapsed in a criminal scandal in late 2001.
 In 2000, Enron led the successful fight in Congress for regulatory exemptions for it and other electronic trading systems, like the ICE. But, that same year, Enron's traders were accused of manipulating California's electricity prices.
 At the time, the ICE, with backing from more than a dozen banks and energy companies, was a distant second to Enron. It survived the energy-trading slump after Enron's collapse, moving beyond its roots in 2001 to buy the long-established International Petroleum Exchange in London for $135 million.
 That put the company, renamed ICE Futures Europe, under the scrutiny of the Financial Securities Authority, which also regulates the London Stock Exchange and most of the British financial system.
 But swaps trading still dominated the ICE's business. And just as the Enron stain on that business began to clear, along came Amaranth Advisors, a $6 billion hedge fund that collapsed in September 2006 after making titanic bets on natural gas. 
 Most of Amaranth's trading occurred on the New York Mercantile Exchange, known as Nymex. But when the Nymex ordered the fund to reduce its natural gas futures position, Amaranth substituted private natural gas swaps trading on the ICE.
 That led to the ICE's first searing experience on the congressional griddle -- and, perhaps, to an upturn in its image among lawmakers.
 At a hearing on Amaranth last July, as Mr. Sprecher explained that the ICE had no legal authority to intervene in the disputed swaps trading, Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, snapped, ''Nor do you want it.''
 ''No, that's not true,'' Mr. Sprecher answered.
 The senator did a double-take. Was Mr. Sprecher saying he was willing to police trades on his exempt over-the-counter market? ''Certainly,'' Mr. Sprecher said.
 That was a positive shock for some Congressional critics. ''Before, I had sensed this real frontier mentality at the ICE,'' said one senior Capitol Hill staff member who spoke about back-room reactions to the hearing only if he were not quoted by name. ''But that was the turning point, right there. They weren't this spunky upstart anymore -- they were in the big leagues.''
 The result was provisions in the latest farm bill that make the ICE's over-the-counter natural gas swaps as fully regulated as if they were traded on the Nymex. Any other ICE contracts that become so popular that they affect real-world energy prices will fall under the same regime.
 Moreover, regulators in Washington have extended their supervision to the crude oil futures trading on ICE Futures Europe, already regulated in London. Various bills proposed in Congress would extend that supervision to any foreign exchange with trading terminals in the United States.
 For all their experience with regulators, executives at the ICE still seem more at home talking about its blue-sky technology than its plain-vanilla compliance duties. But the topic is unavoidable because its regulated markets have been the scene of several official investigations. 
 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is looking into a spike in cotton futures prices on ICE Futures US in late February. Mr. Sprecher said the ICE staff is also investigating the disputed trades, which hurt many cotton owners and shippers.
 Regulators are also investigating possible manipulation in a broad spectrum of oil trading, and on Thursday announced civil charges involving energy futures trades on the Nymex. No specifics about other lines of inquiry have been disclosed, and the ICE would not say whether any of its London oil contracts or over-the-counter swaps are under scrutiny.
 Compared with other for-profit exchanges, the ICE board and senior executive suite is a little lean on people with high-profile regulatory credentials. But Mr. Sprecher said the company was addressing that. Dee Blake, a well-regarded former regulator in London, has been hired to oversee compliance at ICE Futures Europe. 
 Fred Hatfield, a former Washington regulator now on the ICE board, is adding the same heft to ICE Futures US, Mr. Sprecher said. And Trabue Bland, a former counsel at the C.F.T.C., was hired this year to build up the over-the-counter compliance operation.
 Despite his Washington grilling, Mr. Sprecher isn't shy about courting more attention. Last month, the ICE bought Creditex, an electronic auction site for credit default swaps -- a controversial derivative that is already on lawmakers' radar.
 Mr. Sprecher said he recently briefed the Treasury and Federal Reserve about Creditex. ''I've learned my lesson,'' he said. ''I want to make sure people in government start to see the vision before we build it, rather than after.''
 To him, the real message of today's disruptive technologies is that the global commodity markets of cyberspace no longer fit within the tidy boxes set up by national regulators. Technology can slice markets into pieces and stitch them together again in new ways, he cautioned.
 While lawmakers puzzled over regulating his over-the-counter swaps market, with big central computers linked to desktop terminals in well-regulated venues, a new ICE acquisition is testing trading networks built around instant messaging.
 Markets may soon consist of a vast ''buddy list'' of traders wielding smartphones from wherever they happen to be, he said, adding, ''And how do you regulate that?''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the IntercontinentalExchange misstated part of the name of the regulator of the company's London futures market. It is the Financial Services Authority, not the Financial Securities Authority.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeffrey C. Sprecher, the founder of the IntercontinentalExchange, which has faced heated criticism.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Four Markets, Three Regulators, One Company: The IntercontinentalExchange, known as the ICE, runs four electronic markets in three countries, but trades on its regulated exchanges can affect food and energy prices around the world.(Source: IntercontinentalExchange) Chart details statistics for ICE. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUTURES (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); SCANDALS (57%)

COMPANY: INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (85%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); ICE FUTURES US (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

TICKER: ICE (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MARIA CANTWELL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) MANITOBA, CANADA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



629 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'AMERICAN TEEN'; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Film in Review

 BODY:
CSNY
 Deja Vu
 Opens on Friday nationwide. 
 Directed by Neil Young
 1 hour 33 minutes
 ''CSNY: Deja Vu,'' Neil Young's film about a Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young concert tour in 2006, has some delicious moments, but you never quite shake the feeling that it's documenting a tempest in a teapot.
 The band was responsible for some of rock's most confrontational songs in the Vietnam era, including ''Ohio,'' about the Kent State shootings in 1970, and two years ago Mr. Young (who directs here under his whimsical alias, Bernard Shakey) went back on the road with Stephen Stills, Graham Nash and David Crosby with some new tunes about Iraq.
 The film tries to play up the mixed reaction engendered by songs like ''Let's Impeach the President,'' and there is one interesting scene of people walking out of a concert in Atlanta because of the show's political tone. But mostly the movie feels like manufactured controversy. In trying to draw parallels to the atmosphere of the 1960s and '70s it only underscores just how long ago it was that music had the power to shape and focus the public debate. 
 So that leaves this a film you watch for the small moments. The man-on-the-street comments captured by Mr. Young and Mike Cerre, a journalist who joined the project, are priceless Americana. And one juxtaposition -- the band performs the anthem ''For What It's Worth,'' then the film cuts to a nutty appearance by Mr. Young on ''The Colbert Report'' -- is particularly sweet. NEIL GENZLINGER
 ''CSNY: Deja Vu'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has some strong language and brief war images. 
 LATE BLOOMER
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Go Shibata
 In Japanese, with English subtitles
 1 hour 23 minutes; not rated
 Certain to inspire worship in some quarters and walkouts in others, ''Late Bloomer'' turns prejudice on its head and adds to a rarefied subgenre: the disabled-serial-killer movie.
 Our singular protagonist is Sumida (an astonishing performance by the severely disabled actor Masakiyo Sumida), a perpetually randy drunk who enjoys pornography, punk-rock concerts and rolling around town in his motorized wheelchair. But when he falls for a fetching college student (Mari Torii), her thoughtless response to his hesitant overtures (''Did you want to be born normal?'') drives him into a funk of fury and impotence that only a killing spree can assuage. 
 Startlingly humane in its insistence that Sumida is no different from any other guy -- here the able-bodied are the fools, oblivious to his desires and internal life -- ''Late Bloomer'' unfolds mainly in fizzy black and white and in a shooting style that mimics the unsettling jerkiness of Sumida's body movements. Like the splendid Korean film ''Oasis'' this movie tackles its uncomfortable subject with the generosity and imagination of a filmmaker (in this case, Go Shibata) unafraid to confront taboos. 
 Weird, wicked and wonderfully perverse, ''Late Bloomer'' pulses with frigid energy. Watching it is like having your finger trapped in a light socket: no matter how much it hurts, you can't quite tear yourself away. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 NO REGRET
 Opens Friday in Manhattan
 Directed by Leesong Hee-il
 In Korean, with English subtitles
 1 hour 54 minutes; not rated
 The best thing in ''No Regret'' is the brothel. Down a dingy alleyway in Seoul, South Korea, the ''host bar,'' as it is euphemistically known, is announced by a sign that suggestively promises ''X Large.'' Inside, young men fresh from the provinces cavort with their jaded city colleagues for the delight of an all-male clientele. There is karaoke, binge drinking, lap dancing and intimate entanglements in private rooms, along with fistfights, trash talking, broken hearts and bonhomie.
 Here, in the overlighted hallways and shady side rooms of X Large, the director, Leesong Hee-il, presents a remarkably frank portrait of low-rent South Korean homosexuality (the film was a succes de scandale at home), alert to the varieties of sexual identity colliding with economic need. 
 The movie shrinks, however, when it leaves X Large to focus on the sentimental education of Sumin (Lee Young-hoon), a handsome, bright-eyed orphan newly arrived in the city. Leaving behind a beloved companion, Sumin makes his way through a series of lousy jobs before gravitating to sex work, where he is pursued by a desperately smitten young businessman, Jaemin (Lee Han). 
 Mr. Leesong fails to extrapolate the insights of the brothel milieu into his larger agenda: a melodramatic love-hate affair between Sumin and Jaemin so schematic it's unintelligible. Randomly veering from indifference to passion, Sumin is frequently undressed but psychologically cloaked. It is perverse that a movie concerned with objectification would reduce its hero to an object. NATHAN LEE 
 BUSTIN' DOWN THE DOOR
 Opens on Friday in New York and California. 
 Directed by Jeremy Gosch
 1 hour 35 minutes; not rated
 ''Bustin' Down the Door,'' a documentary about the rise of professional surfing, hits all the standard notes of the awestruck historical sports saga. There is the golden age of the scene, rhapsodized as a countercultural paradise on the North Shore of Oahu in Hawaii, blessed with an endless supply of good vibes and huge waves. 
 Enter, in the mid-1970s, the Rebels, a clutch of daredevil super-dudes from Australia and South Africa who shake things up with their suicidal bravado and gnarly attitude. Obstacles are overcome (turf wars, condescension, spectacular wipeouts), triumphs are relished, credibility is established, pockets fill with cash. Cue peppy montage and halcyon commentary (by the narrator, Edward Norton). 
 Happily, the filmmaker, Jeremy Gosch, puts his wide-eyed narrative together with an easy touch. With its amazing wall-to-wall footage of oceanic derring-do ''Bustin' Down the Door'' plays like visual air-conditioning. A rather warmer sensation is in store for admirers of half-naked young men with zero percent body fat, sun-bright smiles and faces so dashing they could turn Apollo green with envy. 
 The darker side of the story -- how the advent of pro surfing was taken as an act of cultural colonialism by some of the locals -- adds gravity to this otherwise lightweight, if amiable summer diversion. NATHAN LEE
 THE ANIMATION SHOW
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Short international films compiled by Mike Judge
 1 hour 21 minutes; not rated 
 There is plenty of sleek, expensive-looking computer animation on display in the fourth edition of ''The Animation Show,'' a collection of some two dozen animated shorts made in a variety of mediums (hand drawn, stop motion, claymation, live action hybrids) to varying degrees of success and/or silliness. 
 ''This Way Up,'' from the commercial filmmaking team known as Smith & Foulkes, does pratfalls in pixels with a pair of unlucky undertakers and one slippery coffin. ''Voodoo'' and ''Blindspot,'' products of the French visual arts college Gobelins, merge world-class craftsmanship with distinctly European fatalism. (Though unrated, ''The Animation Show'' isn't intended for the wee ones, as witness the self-explanatory ''Angry Unpaid Hooker.'')
 But the best in ''Show'' is a mouse-click marvel more indebted to Pong than Pixar. ''Love Sport: Paint Balling,'' by the witty English animator Grant Orchard, deploys warring teams of yellow and blue blocks over a camouflage landscape for an abstracted round of paint ball warfare. Brilliantly colored and smartly staged, this two-minute coup deserves to go viral, and judging from its million-plus views on YouTube, it's well on its way.
 Other highlights include ''Western Spaghetti,'' a stop-motion tour de force from a filmmaker who calls himself PES; and ''Hot Dog,'' the latest from the animation superstar Bill Plympton, in which a plump little dog, eager to ingratiate himself with a fire department, inadvertently urinates gasoline on a lovingly hand-drawn conflagration.
 NATHAN LEE 
 CANARY
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
 Directed by Akihiko Shiota
 In Japanese, with English subtitles 
 2 hours 12 minutes; not rated
 ''Canary,'' a mournful Japanese drama about lost children and sundered families, finds inspiration in the deadly sarin nerve gas attacks in the Tokyo subway in 1995.
 Following an act of terrorism (which is never shown), the Nirvana cult is disbanded and its child members taken into care. Angry and confused, 12-year-old Koichi (Hoshi Ishida) escapes from welfare services to search for his younger sister, who has been taken to Tokyo by their grandfather. En route he encounters Yuki (Mitsuki Tanimura), a pretty runaway who survives by offering sexual services to lonely men. Both children have lost one parent and suffered at the hands of the other, but while Yuki wields a fragile erotic power, Koichi clings to the programming instilled in him by months of physical and emotional intimidation. 
 Save for brief flashbacks to Koichi's indoctrination, ''Canary'' plays out as a child's odyssey through an alternately sympathetic and threatening adult world. In images veering from literal to cryptic to surreal, the movie presents a society where the weak are exploited and the vulnerable unprotected. 
 And if the writer-director, Akihiko Shiota, sometimes strains too hard for mythic import, his patience is a gift. As Yuki watches a blind woman fashion an origami bird, the characters' connection to a simpler, collective past is evident in every perfect fold. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''This Way Up,'' part of the collection ''The Animation Show.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SMITH & FOULKES)
 Catch a Hawaiian wave: A scene from ''Bustin' Down the Door.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCREEN MEDIA FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); POP & ROCK (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); MOVIE RATINGS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); CONTENT RATINGS (77%); DISABLED PERSONS (65%); HOMICIDE (60%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (60%); IMPEACHMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



630 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Particularly Bad Timing

 BODY:
With the global economy slowing, prices soaring for oil and food and protectionist passions boiling up everywhere, it is an especially dangerous time to give up on international trade negotiations. Unfortunately, the world's leading trading nations seem ready to abandon the World Trade Organization's seven-year effort to reduce some of the world's obstacles to trade. 
 The talks, initiated in 2001 in Doha, Qatar, were supposed to help the world's poorest countries. An agreement would open markets to their main products, like food and textiles, and reduce the lavish farm subsidies in the rich world that have put poor farmers out of business. After years of wrangling, the negotiations now appear to be deadlocked. 
 While the reluctance to cut farm subsidies in Europe and the United States had been a main obstacle, the big developing countries also bear a lot of responsibility. 
 At marathon meetings this week in Geneva, the United States offered to further lower the ceiling for its agricultural subsidies -- to roughly $15 billion a year from the current $48 billion. Europe -- with France objecting -- also fleshed out a new offer. 
 Big developing countries, notably Brazil and India, however, are insisting on even deeper subsidy cuts. And they are refusing to submit any offers of their own to reduce tariffs on industrial imports. They argue that the wealthy countries really aren't giving up much. American agricultural subsidies, they note, have already fallen sharply as food prices have soared, to about half the proposed new ceiling. 
 We fear the whole process is on the verge of collapse. This is the last chance to get a deal during the Bush administration, experts say. And if talks fail to make substantial progress, the new American president will probably want to start from scratch rather than pick up where his predecessor left off.
 A breakdown would certainly be harmful. And the world's poorest countries would lose the most. 
 Locking in lower farm subsidies would encourage direly needed agricultural investment in Africa and in poor nations that are struggling with soaring food prices. Curbing food export barriers would also push down prices.
 A breakdown of the Doha talks would also weaken the W.T.O. at a moment when the world needs a credible international body to mediate trade disputes. 
 If the world's richest nations give in to the temptations of protectionism, the world's poorest countries will suffer the most. But no one, including the rich nations, will escape the damage to the global economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); AGRICULTURE (74%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (94%); EUROPE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



631 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
A Weekend in Palermo
 After decades of postwar neglect, the Sicilian capital is poised for a comeback. Crumbling roads are being repaved and landmarks are being scrubbed clean. A slide show of some of Palermo's best, including the statues in the Oratorio del Rosario di Santa Cita, far left, and the banyan trees in Piazza Marina, left. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 Baghdad Bureau
 The Road to Anbar
 Alissa J. Rubin blogs about a recent reporting trip to Anbar Province in Iraq, and how the visit brought back vivid memories of previous journeys for her and her Iraqi interpreter.
 nytimes.com/baghdadbureau
 SLIDESHOW: A MUSEUM IN GAZA
 The first museum of archaeology in Gaza opens this month. Gaza was once a thriving multicultural crossroads, and is now isolated and ruled by Hamas.
 nytimes.com/world
 Times Topics
 After the Karadzic Arrest
 Legal experts discuss the arrest of Radovan Karadzic and what it means for the International Criminal Court, war crimes prosecutions and the future of President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan.
 nytimes.com/topics
 AUDIO: THE FAMILY BUSINESS
 The Duplass brothers, directors of the documentary-style fiction horror/comedy ''Baghead,'' interview each other, discussing their film and their fears.
 nytimes.com/movies
 Well
 AUDIO: Does Dieting Work?
 In her weekly podcast, Tara Parker-Pope talks with Gina Kolata about a recent study that casts doubt on whether dieting can help people lose weight.
 nytimes.com/well
 City Room
 AUDIO: 'Only in New York'
 In his weekly podcast, Sam Roberts goes back 30 years to when one of New York City's most monumental laws was passed: Curb your dog!
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: ANOTHER STRIKE
 Even though Yiskar Caceres, 19, was arrested three times last year for selling drugs, a judge gave him another chance. But Mr. Caceres was arrested again in April and could face up to nine years in state prison. From Rikers, he talks about his fate.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 SLIDESHOW: 'PRETTY UGLY' SLIDESHOW: 'HOW SOON IS NOW?'
 Slide shows of two current New York City art shows. ''Pretty Ugly'' is an everyone-into-the-pool group exhibition featuring about 75 artists, Holland Cotter writes. And at the Bronx Museum of Art, ''How Soon Is Now?'' featuring the work of 36 emerging artists, is a cacophony of mediums, materials and styles, Roberta Smith writes.
 nytimes.com/design
 Opinion
 JUDITH WARNER: THE OTHER HOME EQUITY CRISIS
 Women who have lost their jobs in the economic downturn -- or who have left them out of necessity -- should be considered unemployed. They should not be thought of as having chosen to stay home with their children.
 nytimes.com/judithwarner

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Weekend in Palermo: After decades of postwar neglect, the Sicilian capital is poised for a comeback. Crumbling roads are being repaved and landmarks are being scrubbed clean. A slide show of some of Palermo's best, including the statues in the Oratorio del Rosario di Santa Cita, far left, and the banyan trees in Piazza Marina, left. nytimes.com/travel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); SCULPTURE (77%); PODCASTING (76%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); FAMILY (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); FILM (71%); DIETING (70%); HAMAS (69%); ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); WAR CRIMES (67%); FILM DIRECTORS (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LAYOFFS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%)

PERSON: OMAR AL-BASHIR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



632 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Restructuring Costs Reduce Xerox Earnings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Second-quarter profit at Xerox skidded 19 percent on reorganization charges, but the company matched Wall Street's forecast as its supplies and services business hummed along smoothly. 
 The company, based in Norwalk, Conn., makes most of its money from selling ink and other supplies to companies that have already bought or leased Xerox printers, copiers and other machinery, a reliable business that grew 10 percent in the April-to-June period compared with last year.
 The consistency of that business, coupled with the growing demand for expensive color ink and technical support to help companies manage their ever-expanding hoards of digital documents, helped Xerox expand in line with analyst expectations.
 Xerox said Thursday that net income in the second quarter was $215 million, or 24 cents a share, in line with analysts' estimates. That figure was down from $266 million, or 28 cents a share, in the year-ago period.
 Were it not for previously announced overhaul charges, however, Xerox's profit would have been 5 cents a share higher, topping last year's figure by a penny a share. Xerox continues to cut costs as it looks for ways to improve its profitability.
 The reorganization charges were mostly to account for job cuts in the second quarter. Xerox eliminated roughly 1,000 employees, most of them in North America, ending the quarter with 58,000 workers.
 Sales were $4.53 billion, an 8 percent improvement over last year and exactly in line with analysts' average estimate.
 Equipment sales, which are more vulnerable to economic pressures and swings in discretionary technology spending, grew just 2 percent, to $1.16 billion, a sharp decline from the double-digit increases in recent quarters.
 Installation of color digital printers at commercial printing companies declined 12 percent in the second quarter, which Xerox's chief executive, Anne M. Mulcahy, said was ''way off'' historical trends.
 Shares fell 76 cents, to $13.27. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); PHOTOCOPIERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: ANNE MULCAHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



633 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 445 words

 BODY:
TALKING BACK Comcast says its online outreach is part of a larger effort to revamp its customer service, but some people are calling it creepy. 
 PLUMMETING SALES The Ford Motor Company reported that it lost $8.7 billion in the second quarter, the worst quarterly results in its 105-year history. The bulk of the loss came from write-downs in the value of its truck factories and lease portfolios. [C1.] 
 POLITICAL TENSION The Congressional Black Caucus maintains financial ties to big tobacco, which has opened a rift in the caucus over a menthol exemption in a bill to regulate tobacco. [C1.]
 'DARK MARKET' The founder of IntercontinentalExchange, whose electronic markets are at the center of the debate about commodities speculation, is fending off sharp criticism. [C1.]
 Federal regulators sued a Dutch trading company over a scheme to ''bully the market'' by manipulating the prices of crude oil, heating oil and gasoline. [C1.]
 BANK WOES Financial shares fell after a disappointing home sales report for June renewed worries that the housing crisis could hound banks for months. [C1.]
 PROFITABLE QUARTER Southwest Airlines, the largest low-fare carrier in the United States, reported a profit in the second quarter, a contrast to the losses reported by the traditional airlines. [C2.]
 FEDERAL HANDOUTS Millions of people have the potential to benefit from the housing bailout bill moving through Congress. Your Money: Ron Leiber. [C1.]
 FAIR TREATMENT A financial industry agency changed arbitration panels to give investors the option of having their cases heard solely by their peers. [C2.]
 INSURANCE INQUIRY The Senate is investigating whether a severe backlog in applications for Social Security benefits is being caused by insurance companies eager to increase their profits. [C4.]
 VISA DENIED The chief of a BP joint venture in Russia was forced to leave the country after his work visa was denied. [C4.]
 CASTING DOUBT The European Food Safety Authority issued a less reassuring report about the safety of milk and meat from cloned animals. [C4.]
 GLOOMY FORECAST Two European automakers, Daimler and Renault, lowered their outlooks, citing higher costs and an economic slowdown. [C4.]
 SEARCH DEAL Microsoft said that it would begin providing Web search and search advertisements on the American portion of Facebook. Advertising. [C5.]
 EARNINGS FALL Profit at Credit Suisse skidded 62 percent from a year ago, but it was an improvement from the loss it posted in the first quarter of this year. [C5.]
 FRAUD CHARGES Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general of New York, filed a civil complaint against UBS over its sales of auction-rate securities. [C7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); INSURANCE (74%); MEATS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); HEATING OIL PRICES (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%); FOOD SAFETY (66%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (65%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (63%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (63%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (61%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); ICE (NYSE) (56%); LUV (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



634 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Southwest Turns a Profit for 69th Straight Quarter

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
Southwest Airlines on Thursday managed to do something none of the other major airlines could do in the second quarter: earn a profit.
 Southwest, the largest low-fare airline in the United States, reported net income of $321 million for the April-to-June period, compared with $278 million a year ago. 
 Excluding one-time gains, the airline still earned $121 million, or 16 cents a share, which exceeded analysts' forecast of 12 cents. Shares of Southwest fell 98 cents, to $14.90. 
 It was the airline's 69th consecutive profitable quarter, helped by its extensive fuel-hedging program, and it stood in sharp contrast to the losses reported by the six traditional airlines, some of them steep. 
 Collectively, the other major airlines lost $6 billion in the quarter, hit hard by record prices for jet fuel. Southwest did not escape the impact of higher fuel prices, as its fuel costs rose 35 percent in the quarter. The big airlines posted a number of special charges to reflect a variety of steps the industry is taking to fight high fuel costs, which have nearly doubled from a year ago. The carriers have announced thousands of job cuts, eliminated routes, grounded aircraft and put cost-cutting programs in place.
 Southwest's hedges, which cover 80 percent of the fuel that it buys, again proved its best protection against the problems faced by rivals.
 ''No one is better prepared for this environment than Southwest Airlines,'' its chief executive, Gary D. Kelly, said during a conference call.
 Southwest's revenue rose 11.1 percent, to $2.9 billion, in part because of four sets of price increases this year, as well as a program called Business Select, which the airline said could yield $100 million in additional revenue.
 The plan, aimed at business travelers, gives passengers an extra frequent flier credit, a free cocktail and allows them to board in the first group of travelers (Southwest does not give seat assignments.)
 But Southwest had not joined other airlines in charging fees for features that used to be free, like checking bags, and has turned its decision to forgo them into a marketing campaign. ''Bags fly free,'' the airline declares on its Web site (passengers can check two bags free, and must pay for the third).
 Mr. Kelly said the airline, which carries more passengers within the United States than any other carrier, remains reluctant to add baggage charges, even though it is studying whether to impose other fees, which the industry calls ''ancillary revenue.''
 ''We never had any thought that we would charge to check a bag,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We carry more passengers than anybody in the world, and we would probably have a customer revolt on our hands.'' 
 ''It's a really sweet advantage for us right now,'' he added, saying the first question many passengers ask ticket agents is, '' 'do you charge to check a bag?' We are gaining passengers because of that.''
 Mr. Kelly was cautious in speaking about the 2009 market. Southwest has not canceled plans to take delivery next year of 14 more Boeing 737s, the only type of aircraft it flies. But Mr. Kelly said the airline might not increase its flying capacity in 2009, depending on passenger demand.
 ''All signs point to a weak economy in 2009, so we are cautious about our growth plan,'' he said. 
 Like other airline executives, Mr. Kelly emphasized that his company needed to raise fares in order to cover its rising costs. That is an unusual situation for Southwest, which limited fares to $299 each way until early this year, when it abandoned the cap.
 ''We've got a lot of experience over 37 years of lowering fares and stimulating demand,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''We're now in the reverse position of having to raise fares.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maintenance workers washing a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737 in Oakland, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); JET FUEL (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (92%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



635 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Two European Automakers, Daimler and Renault, Lower Outlooks

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
In another sign of stress for automakers, Daimler and Renault reduced their outlooks on Thursday in the face of higher steel and oil prices and an economic slowdown.
 Renault, the second-largest French automaker, cut its 2009 sales goal by 10 percent and said it would eliminate what could be thousands of jobs.
 ''The deterioration in the macroeconomic environment has far exceeded the worst-case scenarios envisaged'' in plans made two years ago under the chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, the company said. 
 As a result, Renault said it would raise prices to absorb higher raw material costs and reduce its overhead by 10 percent through voluntary job cuts, mostly in Europe.
 Daimler said it was assuming ''that the world economy will continue to lose momentum as the year progresses.''
 ''The influence of high raw material prices, rising inflation rates, falling purchasing power and tight capital markets are likely to prevent a significant revival from taking place in the coming months,'' the company said.
 Daimler cut its forecast for 2008 earnings before interest and taxes to ''more than 7 billion euros,'' or $11 billion, down from a previous forecast that its profit would exceed the 7.7 billion euros, or $12.1 billion, that it posted last year.
 ''The Daimler forecast completely overshadowed the second-quarter results, which were actually very good,'' Christian Nagstrup, an analyst at Jyske Bank in Silkeborg, Denmark, said.
 ''It was a shocking change in expectations for this year,'' Mr. Nagstrup said of Daimler. ''They had been pretty bullish right until now.''
 Daimler reported a second-quarter net profit of 1.4 billion euros, or $2.2 billion, a drop of 25 percent from a year earlier, mostly as a result of a charge of 373 million euros from its stake in Chrysler. 
 Revenue rose 6 percent to 25.4 billion euros, as Daimler sold 566,500 cars and commercial vehicles worldwide, up 10 percent.
 The warnings by the two automakers came a day after Renault's larger French rival, PSA Peugeot Citroen, joined Volkswagen and Volvo in saying that the high costs of fuel and raw materials like steel would make for a difficult operating environment.
 These European carmakers are not alone in feeling the pain of a slowing global economy. J. D. Power & Associates, a consulting and marketing firm, forecast that new car sales in the United States would fall 12 percent this year from 2007.
 European car sales fell 7.9 percent in June, while sales in Japan fell 3.6 percent. Markets in Brazil, Russia, India and China are holding up better. 
 Renault said it was now expecting 2009 sales of three million vehicles for its Renault, Dacia and Renault Samsung Motors units, down from its previous forecast of 3.3 million. Its Lada partnership with Avtovaz in Russia is hoping for sales of 800,000 vehicles this year.
 Daimler and Renault said that in addition to the slowdown in important markets, their results were hurt by the strength of the euro, which reduced the exchange value of profits earned overseas.
 A spokeswoman for Renault, Axelle de Ladonchamps, declined to comment on a French radio report that as many as 7,000 jobs would be cut, and said the company could not yet comment on how much worker severance payments would eventually cost.
 ''It's too early to say how many jobs would go, as we have to talk to labor first,'' Ms. de Ladonchamps said. She stressed that any layoffs would be strictly voluntary. 
 Renault employs 47,000 people in Europe, so a 10 percent reduction would affect 4,700 jobs.
 The company also reported that group revenue for the first six months rose 2.3 percent from a year earlier, to 20.9 billion euros, or $32.8 billion, as it sold 1.33 million vehicles, a rise of 4.3 percent.
 Renault pointed to an improvement in its operating margin, a measure of profitability, which rose to 4.1 percent from 3.5 percent a year earlier, as its operating profit rose 23 percent, to 845 million euros. It said it was maintaining a goal of a 4.5 percent operating margin this year and a margin of 6 percent next year.
 The company estimated its net income at 1.47 billion euros, but noted that the results did not yet include Nissan's second-quarter results, which are expected Aug. 1. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Mercedes-Benz line at a Daimler plant near Stuttgart, Germany. A charge related to Chrysler reduced Daimler's profit.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS KIENZLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EURO (87%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INFLATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EBITDA (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SALES PLAN (72%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (94%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (84%); JYSKE BANK AS (54%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (94%); RNO (BIT) (94%); UG (PAR) (84%); JYSK (CPH) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (94%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



636 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: To Fight Poverty, Tear Down HUD

BYLINE: By SUDHIR VENKATESH. 
Sudhir Venkatesh, a professor of sociology at Columbia, is the author of ''Gang Leader for a Day: A Rogue Sociologist Takes to the Streets.''

 BODY:
WITH the nation embroiled in a housing crisis, one would expect the Department of Housing and Urban Development to be playing a central role. But HUD is a marginal player. Although its Federal Housing Administration division has agreed to underwrite new mortgages, it is merely following the leadership of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department. 
 This is no accident. HUD's sidelined role is a product of its anachronistic approach to both housing and cities. It might be best to simply close the agency and create a new cabinet-level commitment to urban development. 
 In 1965, when HUD was created, its mission was to spur growth in and around cities. The agency provided mortgage assistance to veterans and first-time homeowners, it built housing for the urban poor, and the Federal Housing Administration spurred suburban expansion by recruiting developers and home buyers to a relatively new, untested market. 
 Since its inception, HUD has had a fairly straightforward recipe: develop good relations with mayors and local real estate leaders, then award grants and underwrite loans that affirm local development priorities. The longtime mayor of Chicago, Richard J. Daley, was often credited for creating the ''city that works,'' but it was the support of HUD and the housing administration that helped him eradicate slums, build public housing and create the vast array of working-class neighborhoods that are now Chicago's signature. 
 But in the last four decades the urban landscape has changed from discrete, independent cities to vast, interdependent regions where people and goods move freely. Between Los Angeles and Orange County, Milwaukee and Chicago, Boston and Philadelphia, cities have no choice but to collaborate on decisions over land use and economic development. In taxation and zoning, regional agencies like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the Southern California Regional Rail Authority are as powerful as big-city mayors. And for the first time in our nation's history, poverty is rising faster in suburbs than in urban cores. In this new era, HUD's each-city-is-a-separate-whole approach is not only too inflexible and short-sighted, it also hinders effective regional growth.
 To see why, consider HUD's most prominent urban development program: Housing Opportunities for People Everywhere (VI). Introduced with much fanfare in 1993, HOPE helped municipal governments demolish dilapidated public housing projects and revitalize their inner cities. To receive program money, mayors agreed to move families from the projects to low-poverty neighborhoods and build mixed-income housing where the projects once stood. 
 Clinton administration officials were quick to credit HOPE for reducing inner-city poverty. Big city mayors loved it because it gave them license to raze unsightly projects and gentrify their downtowns. Attractive parks and revamped schools -- entirely new communities, in essence -- brought thousands of middle-class families back to the central city. 
 But a closer look reveals a more complicated story. 
 In large cities like Atlanta, Baltimore and Chicago, the program reshuffled project residents to outlying neighborhoods and struggling inner-ring suburbs whose mayors lack the experience and resources to help the incoming poor and stem rising crime and gang activity. More than 80 percent of the families who left Chicago's demolished projects moved into equally poor, racially segregated neighborhoods.
 Lawsuits have appeared every few years since the inception of the HOPE program, alleging that HUD used these funds to resegregate the poor, a violation of civil rights statutes. 
 A 1998 report from the Government Accountability Office also concluded that HUD oversight was lacking, and HOPE VI was giving greater weight to the interests of real estate developers. This raised widespread concern since private developers are less likely to build affordable housing or maintain usable public spaces. 
 And the construction of mixed-income housing on HOPE sites has lagged, leading to concerns that HUD policies have reduced the low-income housing stock.
 How could a program aimed at curbing inequality and helping the poor end up creating new pockets of poverty? The answer lies partly in HUD's myopic focus on gentrifying urban cores. The agency ignored studies showing that former project residents would have difficulty finding rental housing in outlying neighborhoods and did not provide assistance for inner-ring suburbs with high rates of foreclosures. HUD resisted calls to slow down housing demolition and to move the poor to areas of high job growth.
 By making no effort to ascertain needs and resources on a regional scale, HUD has ended up eliminating poverty in one place while creating distressed, low-income communities in others. If HUD had developed a broader vision, one that tied together inner city and suburb, it could have created policies to help both areas adjust to the modern urban landscape.
 In correcting HUD's missteps, we must first separate ''housing policy'' from ''urban development.'' Today, housing policy is dictated by private markets, so why not give the Commerce and Treasury Departments oversight of a single authority that administers Federal Housing Administration financing -- needed to keep homes affordable for the majority of Americans -- and all of HUD's other housing programs? 
 Then, the development needs of our nation's regions -- wide areas like the Northeast corridor or Southern California -- could be considered anew. Block grants could provide incentives for municipal and county governments to collaborate. Regionalism must be embraced, even if it tests local officials who fear losing their traditional sources of government financing. 
 Promoting coherent regional development will also entail linking urban policy concerns like community development and social services with work like rehabbing roads and building railways. With gas prices driving Americans to public transportation, this is a fitting moment to think holistically. 
 But adding a few more buses won't do the trick. Americans live too spread out, and economic activity is no longer limited to downtowns. Community-based initiatives -- from vocational programs to rezoning efforts to designing effective transportation corridors and recreational space -- are sorely needed but will be effective only if they tie into a broader vision that anticipates growth on a large scale. 
 Even our most persistent problems of inequality will require new strategies. A federal agency devoted to regional planning could help the Health and Human Services Department reconfigure anti-poverty programs to aid suburban communities that have so far gone unnoticed but are desperately in need. It could motivate the Labor Department to develop training programs and support the transportation needs of workers.
 We need an agency that can work outside old boundaries and design a regional approach to revitalizing cities and suburbs. Dismantling HUD would be a great place to start.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY RASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (95%); CITIES (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); MAYORS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ZONING (78%); FAMILY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); SUBURBS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); HISTORY (61%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



637 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Health Plan, Dissected

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Health Plan From Obama Spurs Debate'' (front page, July 23):
 I would add some factors to support the economics of Barack Obama's health plan. 
 When large numbers of mostly healthy, younger people enter the insured pool, per capita costs will go down. 
 There will be a reduction in unpaid medical debt, a cost currently borne by health care providers and by the economy at large. 
 When insurers must cover everyone, regardless of pre-existing conditions or risk profile, then the cost of serious illness will be spread more equitably, resulting in fewer catastrophic losses to individuals and their families. 
 Moving away from employer-sponsored plans will give people a more direct stake in the health care economy, encouraging healthy habits and broader demand for responsible spending. 
 Finally, when every American has access to health care, the reduction in anxiety across this country and the increase in justice for all will be absolutely priceless. Linda Pesce Laske 
 Easton, Conn., July 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Barack Obama proposes to make health care affordable for all Americans with an injection of cash from the repeal of the Bush tax cuts and with savings realized from electronic health information technology and programs to improve disease prevention and chronic disease management. 
 While better record-keeping and prevention and management programs would improve the quality of our medical system, there is little data that they would actually save money. They certainly would not do so for many years. 
 Most waste in our health care system is a result of our reliance on private health insurers. Having multiple competing insurers results in costs for marketing, underwriting, billing, claims adjudication, executive salaries and profit. 
 Administrative costs account for 31 percent of all health care spending in the United States, but only 17 percent in Canada's single payer system. The administrative costs of America's own single-payer system, Medicare, are only about 3 percent, compared with 12 to 15 percent for private insurers. 
 If Mr. Obama wants to save enough to provide health care for every American, he needs to open the debate to include consideration of Medicare for all in the United States. Rachel Nardin 
 Cambridge, Mass., July 23, 2008
 The writer, an assistant professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School, is chairwoman of the Massachusetts chapter of Physicians for a National Health Program.
 To the Editor:
 Apparently economists and both Senators Barack Obama and John McCain think that there are too many unnecessary expenses in our health care system. My question is, ''Unnecessary'' according to whom? A bean counter at some insurance company? An unapproachable government bureaucrat? 
 I'm sure that there are many high-cost and low-success-rate procedures that are statistically unnecessary, but if one of those procedures represents the only chance of survival for a friend or relative, it will seem very necessary to me.
 There is no question that we spend a lot of money on health care in this country. Let's not rule out the possibility that we are getting our money's worth.
 Geoffrey S. Domm 
 New York, July 24, 2008
 To the Editor:
 You provide an excellent summary of the most controversial features of Barack Obama's health plan. But the proposed revenue sources are as ephemeral as the projected savings.
 The plan assumes that reversal of previous tax cuts on those making more than $250,000 would finance the plan. But haven't all of those funds already been earmarked to pay for new tax cuts for the middle class? And haven't they also been promised to finance more generous Medicare prescription drug benefits? 
 And are all the increased revenues from reversing those tax cuts also cited as the key element in eliminating the budget deficit? Richard E. Ralston 
 Executive Director, Americans for
 Free Choice in Medicine
 Newport Beach, Calif., July 23, 2008
 To the Editor:
 An important element that should be added to the debate over Senator Barack Obama's health plan is the cost-saving potential of providing coverage to the uninsured. Since insurance works by spreading risk, the more people who sign up for a health plan, the lower the premiums will be for families who already have insurance.
 This simple law of health care economics featured prominently in the debate over health insurance mandates during the presidential primaries. In January, a much-publicized report by Jonathan Gruber, a health economist at M.I.T., found that, all else being equal, a health care proposal that mandated coverage for all would cost $1,700 less per newly insured individual than one without added incentives for enrollment.
 Now that the primaries are over, Mr. Obama should acknowledge the limitations of an approach that does not include a mandate and work to achieve true cost savings by ensuring that his plan is truly universal. Robert Nelb 
 Washington, July 23, 2008
 The writer is a senior fellow at the Roosevelt Institution.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); MEDICARE (73%); WRITERS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (65%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



638 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Obama: There's Bratwurst in Ohio, Too (but No Cheering Masses)

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain's presidential campaign recovered from a near-death experience almost exactly a year ago, and political candidates stumble in and out of troughs all the time. But it is safe to say that Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, is not having a spectacular week.
 As his Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama, met one-on-one with Israeli and Palestinian leaders in the Middle East on Wednesday, Mr. McCain went on an awkward grocery-shopping trip with a mother and two children in a Pennsylvania supermarket and held a news conference at the dairy case. And as Mr. Obama spoke to a rousing crowd of more than 200,000 in Berlin on Thursday, Mr. McCain had a bratwurst lunch with the owner of a car dealership and other local business people at a German restaurant in Columbus. 
 ''Well, I'd love to give a speech in Germany, a political speech, or a speech that maybe the German people would be interested in, but I'd much prefer to do it as president of the United States rather than as a candidate for the office of presidency,'' Mr. McCain told reporters outside Schmidt's Restaurant und Sausage Haus, shortly before Mr. Obama began speaking at the Victory Column in the heart of Berlin. (The campaign's choice of restaurant was consistent with the Republican National Committee's decision to run anti-Obama advertisements in Berlin, N.H.; Berlin, Wis.; and Berlin, Pa.)
 Instead, Mr. McCain said, he would be ''campaigning across the heartland of America and talking about the issues that are challenging America today.''
 That, at least, has been the plan this week, including at an appearance with Lance Armstrong, the cyclist and cancer survivor, on Thursday night, when Mr. McCain could not resist a swipe at the throngs of journalists accompanying Mr. Obama. ''My opponent, of course, is traveling in Europe, and tomorrow his tour takes him to France,'' Mr. McCain said with Mr. Armstrong at the Columbus event, according to his prepared remarks. ''In a scene Lance would recognize, a throng of adoring fans awaits Senator Obama in Paris -- and that's just the American press.'' 
 At every stop that was supposed to be about the economy, energy or health care, Mr. McCain faced questions about Mr. Obama's foreign trip and spent as much time reacting to his opponent as pushing his own domestic plans. He seemed to talk less about the future and more about the past and did not hide his frustration that Mr. Obama was still refusing to support the American troop escalation, or surge, that Mr. McCain had championed and that has helped improve security in Iraq. From Mr. McCain's point of view, the surge made Mr. Obama's trip to Iraq possible.
 ''I am again deeply disappointed that Senator Obama would not recognize the fact that the surge has succeeded,'' Mr. McCain said in typical, now-daily comments before the refrigerated case of cheese in Bethlehem, Pa. ''No rational person could see the situation two years ago and now see the situation today and deny that the surge has succeeded.'' The day before, at a town-hall-style meeting in Rochester, N.H., Mr. McCain had sharply said Mr. Obama ''would rather lose a war in order to win a political campaign.''
 Then, too, Mr. McCain was plagued by bad luck and his own synapses. He was supposed to have a dramatic campaign stop on an oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico on Thursday. But then along came Hurricane Dolly. And an oil spill that closed a long stretch of the lower Mississippi River on Wednesday undercut his message that offshore drilling was desirable and safe.
 The day before, Mr. McCain repeated a mistake by referring to Czechoslovakia, a nation that has not existed since 1993, and got into a tangle after an interview with CBS News over whether he was historically correct in saying that the troop escalation began before the Anbar Awakening movement in which Sunnis joined forces with American troops to fight the insurgency in Iraq.
 ''McCain is having a disastrous week,'' said Ed Rollins, a Republican strategist who led Mike Huckabee's presidential campaign this year. ''It would have been better if he had just kept a low profile and stayed out of the limelight. He got dragged into making a lot of stupid comments about Obama, and there's been this tremendous contrast with the visuals, which is what a lot of people pay attention to.''
 Campaign advisers to Mr. McCain say that the mood is not good at headquarters in Arlington, Va., and that the week got off to a bad start when Mr. McCain was photographed in a golf cart with the 84-year-old former President George Bush in the resort town of Kennebunkport, Me. It was the same day that pictures of Mr. Obama in sleek sunglasses alongside Gen. David H. Petraeus in a helicopter in Iraq were beamed all over the world.
 But Mark Salter, one of Mr. McCain's closest advisers, said Thursday over his own bratwurst lunch that he, for one, was not alarmed, and that Mr. McCain had spent the week in battleground states meeting with people who actually vote in American elections. ''I think he's getting his message out -- go look at some of the local press and the local TV packages,'' Mr. Salter said. ''It's John McCain on energy and the economy.'' 
 (On Thursday in Pennsylvania, The Times Leader in Wilkes-Barre prominently featured Mr. McCain's comments in the state on Social Security; The Morning Call in Allentown covered Mr. McCain's stop at the grocery store, including his remarks that $4-a-gallon milk was putting a strain on American families.)
 People on both sides also said that it was only one week in July, and that Mr. McCain recovered from far worse last year when his campaign went nearly broke and speculation was rampant that he would drop out of the race.
 On Friday, Mr. McCain is to move beyond domestic milk prices and meet with the Dalai Lama in Aspen, Colo. -- Mr. McCain called the Tibetan spiritual leader ''a transcendent national role model'' -- and then he will head home for a weekend at his Arizona retreat near Sedona. 
 At that point, the long week will be over.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John McCain in Columbus, Ohio, with small-business leaders, including Duane Hickerson, partner and founder of Relay Gear. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JOURNALISM (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); WRITERS (66%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (55%); NEW CAR DEALERS (54%)

COMPANY: SENATOR ENTERTAINMENT AG (92%); SCHMIDT'S RESTAURANT & SAUSAGE HAUS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

TICKER: SMN1 (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); LANCE ARMSTRONG (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) OHIO, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (87%); FRANCE (85%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



639 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Vague on Issues, Is a Crowd-Pleaser in Europe

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Nicholas Kulish contributed reporting from Berlin, and Katrin Bennhold from Paris.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
For Senator Barack Obama, who came to Europe once in the last four years, making a stop in London on his way to Russia, the response of many Europeans to his potential presidency has been gratifying -- emotional, responsive, replete with the sense of hope he seeks to engender about a more flexible, less ideological America.
 European governments and politicians are not so sure. 
 On Thursday evening in a glittering Berlin, Mr. Obama delivered a tone poem to American and European ideals and shared history. 
 But he was vague on crucial issues of trade, defense and foreign policy that currently divide Washington from Europe and are likely to continue to do so even if he becomes president -- issues ranging from Russia, Turkey, Iran and Afghanistan to new refueling tankers and chlorinated chickens, the focus of an 11-year European ban on American poultry imports.
 Europeans admire Mr. Obama's political skills, and welcome his apparent readiness to respect opposing points of view. For many here, that raises the prospect of a sharp break with the policies of the Bush administration, especially in its first term, when the United States chose to ignore the Geneva Conventions at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, rejected the Kyoto accord on global warming and invaded Iraq, starting a war that some of America's European allies opposed.
 ''Will we acknowledge that there is no more powerful example than the one each of our nations projects to the world?'' Mr. Obama asked in his speech, then added pointedly, ''Will we reject torture and stand for the rule of law?'' The huge crowd applauded and waved American flags.
 ''On the positive side, we can expect somebody who reasons the way we do in Europe,'' said Pierre Rousselin, the foreign editor of Le Figaro, a French newspaper, after the speech. ''That said, on climate issues, the economy and world politics there are still questions. There will be a difference, but very quickly Obama will be faced with concrete questions, like Afghanistan.''
 Eberhard Sandschneider of the German Council on Foreign Relations said, ''The Obama who spoke tonight did not put all his cards on the table.'' Mr. Obama ''tried to use all the symbolism of Berlin to indicate that as president he would reach out to Europe,'' Mr. Sandschneider said. ''But between the lines he said very clearly that Europe needs to do more,'' especially on Afghanistan and Iraq.
 Europeans are wary about Mr. Obama's call for more European money for defense and more soldiers for the fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan. They worry that he will not alter what they see as President Bush's unbending bias in favor of Israel. 
 And, despite what appears to be his sensitivity to European concerns, they perceive Mr. Obama as largely uninterested in Europe, even though he is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee responsible for the region. As the newspaper Le Monde pointed out on Thursday, Mr. Obama has never asked to meet the European Union's ambassador in Washington.
 But European leaders are particularly concerned about Mr. Obama's positions on trade, taken during the bruising Democratic campaign against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, which seem to many to veer toward protectionism.
 Europe's trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, last month urged both Mr. Obama and his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, to reject ''the false comforts of populism'' and abandon ''the protectionist and antitrade rhetoric'' that dominated the primaries. 
 Mr. Mandelson noted that Mr. Obama had pledged to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement and had opposed a new trade deal with Colombia. ''A crisis of American confidence in globalization,'' Mr. Mandelson said, ''could knock it off course.''
 Mr. Obama in his address spoke of the need for Europeans and Americans to recognize common challenges in an easily traveled world of radical Islam, nuclear proliferation, carbon emissions, violence, poverty and genocide. 
 But he offered more tepid support for free trade, even as negotiators in Geneva, including Mr. Mandelson, try to break an impasse that has dogged global trade talks for seven years. He said he wanted to ''build on the wealth that open markets have created'' but only if trade agreements were ''free and fair for all,'' a phrase that suggests fidelity to the trade-wary stance of one wing of the Democratic Party.
 Europeans are upset about a recent decision by the Pentagon to order a new round of bidding for a $35 billion contract for aerial refueling tankers. A European-led consortium won the lucrative contract, beating Boeing, earlier this year. But Boeing and its Congressional supporters managed to have the bid reviewed and ultimately overturned.
 The Europeans are unhappy with a five-year, $289 billion farm bill that maintains sizable subsidies for American farmers, even as the Europeans vow to review their own farm subsidies as a spur to trade talks. The United States complains that the European ban on American poultry costs American farmers about $200 million a year. The Europeans do not like the chlorine bath Americans use to disinfect their chickens, an argument that is less about safety than about taste.
 Mr. Obama offered greater support for Europe's great experiment in shared sovereignty, the European Union, which now includes 27 nations. ''In this century, we need a strong European Union that deepens the security and prosperity of this continent, while extending a hand abroad,'' he said, a nod to the large amounts of foreign assistance the Europeans provide. 
 He referred repeatedly to ''European'' people and values, drawing a contrast with the Bush administration, which has often sought to recruit individual European countries, like Britain and Poland, to support its policies, while doing less to cultivate ties to the broader European Union. Washington views the European Union as being dominated by France and Germany and less eager to follow America's foreign policy. 
 But Mr. Obama also called for a more muscular Europe to act with the United States in the common defense, a politically delicate matter here that is likely to prove an irritant no matter who wins the presidency.
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has sent more troops to Afghanistan, but he has faced fierce political criticism for doing so. The Germans continue to be unwilling to send their troops from the safer northern provinces of Afghanistan to the south, where the Taliban is resurgent.
 Hubert Vedrine, a former French foreign minister, said, ''I don't think Europe is a major stake for'' Mr. Obama, adding, ''It's the support that Europeans can bring to his politics that matters.''
 Mr. Obama indulged in ''some pro-German demagogy on nuclear weapons to get applause,'' Mr. Vedrine said. But he said Mr. Obama's call for more European engagement in Afghanistan would not go over so well.
 Even on Iran, where so far Washington and the main European countries have cooperated in their effort to prevent Tehran from getting a nuclear weapon, Mr. Obama refuses to rule out a military option -- a position that, as Le Monde said, ''is judged unproductive by most Europeans.''
 Still, his willingness for some form of prepared negotiation with Iran is much closer to European views than that of Mr. Bush.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama spoke to an enthusiastic crowd in Berlin on Thursday, and some people were particularly supportive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POULTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); TALIBAN (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); GERMANY (94%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CUBA (70%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



640 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Citizen-Journalism Project Gains a Voice in the Campaign

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
An online citizen-journalist project that sought innovative approaches to journalism celebrates its anniversary this month, having already had some effect on the presidential campaign.
 Of all the new political, noncandidate Web sites to spring up in the last year, OffTheBus.net is now probably the biggest, with 7,500 citizen correspondents. Despite its growing pains, the project, an arm of The Huffington Post, continues to develop the technological and organizational know-how to become a media force as it challenges the standard notions of traditional journalism.
 The number of correspondents has grown from 300 a year ago. Arianna Huffington, who helped found the project, attributes the sharp rise to the buzz created by Mayhill Fowler, one of its correspondents. In April, Ms. Fowler was the first to report Senator Barack Obama's comments about ''bitter'' small-town voters, and then in June, former President Bill Clinton's criticism of a Vanity Fair writer. 
 The scoops created news and also prompted intense self-reflection among traditional journalists. Had Ms. Fowler successfully pushed the envelope for campaign reporting? Or had she so fractured the rules that she set journalism back? Either way, she has become a rainmaker for OTB.
 ''The numbers started going up with Mayhill, then they accelerated,'' Ms. Huffington said. ''She became the poster child for ordinary citizens being able to impact the campaign.''
 The fresh recruits give OTB a greater capacity to undertake the kind of projects it set out to do, particularly the so-called distributive or collaborative kind of reporting in which many contributors work together on an article or compendiums of photographs.
 Amanda Michel, the 30-year-old director of the site, is the organizational brains behind this growing army. Ms. Michel's innovations include a ''Special Ops'' section, which is an intelligence-gathering unit that deploys citizen journalists to sweep up information in a systematic way. This seems only fitting: Ms. Michel was born at Fort Benning, Ga., the daughter of a Green Beret (trained in Special Operations) and a Dutch mother who now teaches French.
 These information sweeps may yield breaking news or simply help OTB build its database of information on the campaigns.
 ''They aren't necessarily for a story, but through these assignments, we can get a much better sense of what's happening on the ground,'' Ms. Michel said in an interview in the loftlike offices of The Huffington Post in Lower Manhattan.
 The collaborative reporting projects include an early article, based on a day of accompanying Obama canvassers across the country, that showed that Democratic voters were more concerned about the economy than the Iraq war, and a detailed profile of each of the nearly 800 Democratic superdelegates.
 The latest Special Ops mission is to cover some of the hundreds of platform hearings that the Obama campaign and the Democratic National Committee are staging all over the country.
 ''We aren't trying to substitute for other kinds of coverage,'' Ms. Michel said. ''But by making use of the Web and a networked citizenry, we're trying to identify opportunities for better reporting.''
 Not everyone is thrilled by the emergence of citizen journalism. One commenter to OTB's post seeking correspondents for the platform meetings wrote: ''Just what we need. Unpaid, unprofessional journalists.'' (The citizen corps is voluntary, although Ms. Fowler and a few others are now being reimbursed for travel expenses.)
 Marc Cooper, who is the editorial coordinator of the site and teaches journalism at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Southern California, said the lack of professional training had sometimes been a problem.
 ''A lot of people don't know how to write very well,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''They don't know how to do proper reporting; they don't know the right questions to ask in an interview.''
 Still, he said, this group reporting is solid journalistically and will eventually become an important tool in the mainstream media.
 ''There are all types of people out there who maybe aren't journalists but who can commit acts of journalism,'' he said.
 While its host site, The Huffington Post, obviously favors Mr. Obama over Senator John McCain, OTB, Mr. Cooper said, was a journalistic endeavor and had no political agenda. Its correspondents are required to acknowledge their political beliefs and affiliations, which Mr. Cooper said could be more honest than the practice in the mainstream media of pretending that reporters have no opinions.
 Ms. Fowler had made known her sympathies toward Mr. Obama before she attended his fund-raiser in San Francisco. (Indeed, it was that sympathy, and a political donation, that gained her access to the event.)
 Ms. Fowler was reluctant to write about the ''bitter'' comment because she was afraid it would hurt Mr. Obama, and Ms. Michel had to coax it from her. Ms. Michel said she told Ms. Fowler that if she withheld the story, she would be setting a bad precedent and could no longer cover the Obama campaign for OTB.
 Some of the site' s correspondents covering the platform meetings are actually Obama precinct captains, Ms. Michel said, but this is not in itself a disqualifier; failure to disclose it would be.
 In order to prevent individual bias from skewing a final report, she said, the material is given extra scrutiny. Affiliations, contributions and reporting methods must be transparent. The sheer number of reports can expose any outliers, and having a uniform questionnaire can also be helpful.
 For Mr. Cooper, OTB is not what he envisioned initially, but then, he did not really know what to expect.
 ''We're inventing it as it goes along,'' he said. ''It's changing under our feet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amanda Michel directs an online citizen-journalism project, OffTheBus.net, an arm of The Huffington Post political Web site. The project has 7,500 volunteers
 it started a year ago with 300. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ARMIES (73%); SUPERDELEGATES (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008



641 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Encouraging Signs in Data Cap Rocky Week for Stocks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Investors welcomed an unexpected spate of good news about the economy on Friday, as reports showed a rise in consumer confidence, stronger-than-expected business spending and slightly less bleeding in the market for new homes. 
 The developments helped nudge stocks to a higher close at the end of a bumpy week. A welter of negative news on Thursday, including a record quarterly loss by Ford Motor and a gloomy report on existing-home sales, sent the Dow industrials down 283 points.
 On Friday, a report by the University of Michigan and Reuters said that Americans felt better about the economy in July than they have since April, but the numbers remained far below those at the beginning of the year. 
 The confidence index rose to 61.2, from 56.4 in June, though Americans still have low expectations for the economy's performance in the months ahead. 
 Some economists speculated that the unexpected boost stemmed from a decline in gasoline prices in the last two weeks. That may have temporarily overshadowed concerns about falling home prices and a weak job market, said Brian Bethune, an economist at the research firm Global Insight.
 Another government report showed that orders for big-ticket items rose last month, beating economists' expectations. A surge in export orders and investment in military-related products sent durable goods orders up 0.8 percent in June from a revised 0.1 percent in May, the Commerce Department said. Excluding orders for military-related goods, orders were up only 0.1 percent.
 And sales of newly built homes showed some improvement last month, declining 0.6 percent, less than economists had expected, according to a separate report from the Commerce Department. Inventories dipped as well, as sales fell to a 530,000 seasonally adjusted annual rate.
 Sales were up in the Northeast and Midwest, but down in the South and West. The median price for a new home ticked up slightly, to $230,900, up from $227,700 in May. The median new-home prices is still 2 percent below its level from a year ago. 
 At the current sales rate, it would take 10 months to work off the current inventory.
 ''New sales are now very close to their population-adjusted low in 1982, after the last big bust, and we doubt they can fall a great deal further,'' Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics in London, wrote.
 The durable goods report, which refers to items intended to last several years, suggested that the manufacturing sector might be able to muddle through the economic downturn, although it has recorded deep job losses in the last few months.
 A widely watched gauge of spending by businesses rose 1.4 percent after falling slightly in May, an encouraging sign for manufacturing companies that were otherwise struggling through one of the worst downturns since the Depression. The gauge measures orders of capital goods that exclude aircraft and military-related products.
 Demand for transportation products declined 2.6 percent, as high oil prices caused problems for that segment of the economy.
 Demand for electronic equipment was one of June's biggest drivers, rising 5 percent. Heavy machinery orders were up 2.3 percent after falling 3.7 percent in May. Orders for metals also surged by more than 5 percent.
 Demand also fell for computers and telecommunications equipment. Civilian aircraft orders declined 25 percent, although that figure swings from month to month.
 ''We expect to see further weakness ahead in orders as access to credit remains under pressure and the consumer sector weakens more rapidly,'' James Knightley, an economist at ING Bank in London, wrote in a note to clients.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Durable Goods Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department)
 New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Charts detail bar graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); DEFENSE ORDERS (77%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); STATISTICS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); EXPORT TRADE (51%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



642 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Plummeting Resale Values Lead Chrysler to End Leases

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Chrysler is getting out of the auto leasing business.
 The company, now privately held, told its dealers on Friday that its financing arm, Chrysler Financial, would stop offering leases as of Aug. 1, a move that comes as plummeting resale values of gas-thirsty trucks and sport utility vehicles turn lease deals on those vehicles into big money losers for the Detroit automakers.
 On Thursday, the Ford Motor Company took a $2.1 billion write-down in the second quarter, part of an $8.7 billion loss for Ford over all, related to unprofitable leases held by its finance arm, the Ford Motor Credit Company. 
 James E. Press, a co-president of Chrysler, said the carmaker would divert money it had been spending to subsidize leases toward offers that make traditional financing more affordable. He said Chrysler would offer discounts so that many customers who financed a vehicle would end up with about the same monthly payment that they would have had in a lease.
 In many instances, Mr. Press said, low interest rates already have made financing more appealing than leasing, and leasing creates more financial risk for the automaker.
 ''There was a time when leasing was really very attractive,'' he said in a conference call with reporters and analysts. ''We really reached a point today, in this environment, where the economic advantages of leasing have really disappeared.''
 Chrysler dealers will still be able to offer leases through independent banks.
 Nationally, about four out of five customers buy rather than lease, according to data from the Power Information Network, a division of J. D. Power & Associates. But leasing is extremely popular in certain regions of the country, including the Detroit area.
 At Shuman Motor Sales, a Chrysler and Jeep dealership in Walled Lake, Mich., the general sales manager, Chris Brough, said leases accounted for 85 percent of the dealership's business. Mr. Brough said ending leases would mean lower volume at first but that the change would make his dealerships and others healthier in the long run.
 ''I'm looking forward to it,'' he said. ''We made more money when we sold cars as opposed to leasing them -- when people saw value in the car rather than just the monthly payment.''
 Lease payments are calculated according to how much of its value a vehicle is expected to lose during the length of the lease, and often have little correlation to the car's actual price. Most of the larger vehicles under lease are now worth far less than they were expected to be worth, meaning lenders will lose money when they sell those vehicles after the lease ends.
 In the last year alone, resale values dropped 12 percent for large pickup trucks and 11 percent for large S.U.V.'s, according to the Power Information Network.
 Because leasing can make expensive vehicles cheaper to drive than lower-priced ones, it had begun playing the same type of role in the vehicle market that interest-only and adjustable-rate loans had in weakening the housing market, Mr. Press said.
 ''Leasing was being used in some cases to get people into product who probably economically shouldn't have been in leases,'' he said. ''That kind of exposure is a little bit of a bubble, and we've got to clean that up.''
 Chrysler's owner, the private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management, also owns 51 percent of GMAC Financial Services, the financing arm at General Motors. A GMAC spokeswoman, Gina Proia, declined to say whether that company might also move out of the leasing business.
 Analysts expect GMAC to take significant write-downs on its lease portfolio either when it reports second-quarter results or in a later period.
 Separately Friday, G.M. said it would make employee discounts on its vehicles more accessible to people outside the company for the rest of July in hopes of stimulating sales in an otherwise slow month. G.M. told employees that they could each pass on their discount to one other person.
 ''It's a way to get consumers who are even thinking about buying a car to at least come into the showroom,'' G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, told reporters after an event to dedicate a new powertrain development facility near Detroit.
 Mr. Wagoner said July sales had been ''not too different from last month,'' when G.M.'s sales were down 17.7 percent and overall industry sales fell 18.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A customer and a leasing manager at a Chrysler dealership in Raleigh, N.C. Automakers are losing money on leasing deals.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); LEASING INDUSTRY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (63%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (71%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (71%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



643 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: European Drug Watchdog Supports New Pill by Bayer

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Bayer's experimental anticoagulant Xarelto, its biggest new drug hope, has been recommended for approval by the European Medicines Agency, lifting the German company's shares.
 The drug watchdog said on Friday that its Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use had backed Xarelto for the prevention of blood clots after hip or knee surgery. 
 Recommendations for marketing approval by the committee are normally endorsed by the European Commission within a couple of months.
 Bayer, which estimates that global sales of the drug could reach 2 billion euros ($3.14 billion) for all indications, said it was particularly pleased by the speedy positive opinion.
 ''We received it only nine months after the submission -- very fast compared to average,'' said Kemal Malik, a member of the Bayer HealthCare executive committee, responsible for product development.
 Bayer shares rose 3.6 percent, to $87.50, in New York trading as investors welcomed the green light, which reinforces Bayer's reputation for having a promising new drug pipeline.
 Bayer had previously said it expected Xarelto to go on sale in Europe by the end of the year.
 Citi analysts said progress with Xarelto showed Bayer was making a transition from a reorganization play -- after its 17 billion euro acquisition of Schering in 2006 -- to a growth story driven by a maturing pipeline of new medicines.
 Outside Europe, regulatory filings for Xarelto have been submitted in more than 10 countries, including Canada and China. It is expected to be submitted for approval soon in the United States, where it will be marketed by Bayer's partner Johnson & Johnson.
 Although the initial use of Xarelto will be in preventing blood clots after hip- and knee-replacement surgery, the big commercial potential lies in using it to prevent strokes in people with atrial fibrillation, a common heart arrhythmia.
 The medicine, which is also known by the generic name rivaroxaban, is taken as a single tablet, once daily.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); ANTICOAGULANTS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); ORTHOPEDICS (76%); HEART DISEASE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (71%); EURO (70%)

COMPANY: BAYER AG (95%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); CITIGROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN MEDICINES AGENCY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (95%); BAY (MCE) (95%); BAY (BIT) (95%); JNJ (NYSE) (66%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



644 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Disasters Haven't Abated, But Cash Has, Groups Say

BYLINE: By APRIL DEMBOSKY

 BODY:
The Police and Fire Departments, it is well known, were the first to answer the call at the burning World Trade Center. Not long after the towers fell, the Red Cross came in.
 After that, with the wreckage still smoldering, there was confusion. Where would workers who escaped and nearby residents who were forced out go for long-term necessities like physical and mental health care, housing, a new job?
 The 9/11 United Services Group coordinated nonprofit organizations, directing people to agencies and eliminating gaps and duplication of services. Eventually, its function was taken over by the Disaster Preparedness and Response Program of the Human Services Council of New York City, an umbrella group of local nonprofits. 
 But this month, after the state declined to renew its financing, the program closed for good. It was one of several disaster programs affected by budget cuts this year.
 ''Memories seem to be short in terms of what is necessary when there's a disaster in the city of New York,'' said Nancy Wackstein, board chair of the Human Services Council. ''This is not only about a terrorist attack. This is about hurricanes and coastal flooding and things like that.''
 The council took over disaster coordination in late 2004. One of the first challenges for program officials was to organize the private-sector response for thousands of Hurricane Katrina evacuees who came to New York City. They also helped lead a local pilot program of the Coordinated Assistance Network, a national database of victim information where agencies can find the details of victims' stories and the services that have been provided to them.
 They were also asked to manage a $10 million disaster contingency fund. But the group's main accomplishment was helping to develop a comprehensive disaster response plan for the city's nonprofit agencies. 
 ''It is the most comprehensive guide in the country, and so probably the world,'' said Michael Stoller, the Human Services Council's executive director. 
 The council's disaster response program was first financed by the State Office of Homeland Security, then by the State Department of Health. In a contract ending in 2007, the Health Department granted the council $380,000 for the disaster response program. But the Spitzer administration, in an attempt to improve budget transparency, discontinued a $27 million pool that the council's money came from. Only $10.9 million and 22 programs were written back into the budget, leaving 36 programs without an allocation. The council's disaster response program was one of them.
 ''It was a limited-time contract,'' said Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the State Division of the Budget. ''It was not intended to be an ongoing funding stream. They completed the work they were contracted to do.''
 But the council contends that its work is far from finished.
 ''You can't just set something up in 2005 and have it be relevant in 2009,'' Ms. Wackstein said. ''There has to be ongoing maintenance.'' 
 Terry Bischoff, chief executive of the American Red Cross in Greater New York, one of the council's partners, which received some of the state financing in subcontracts, offered a baseball analogy. ''They don't practice once in spring training, and now they're good to go for the rest of the season,'' she said. ''You need to keep practicing the plan. People forget, people change positions. Disasters don't happen on a schedule.''
 Mr. Gordon said that the state continued to finance local health departments, schools and hospitals that provide emergency response services, including hot lines and clearinghouses. 
 Several other community-based programs that work in disaster preparedness are also facing significant cuts. 
 American Red Cross in Greater New York's emergency preparedness program received $1.9 million from the City Council for fiscal year 2008, but was allocated only $500,000 for 2009. 
 In June, Safe Horizon, a victims' services group, discontinued its disaster response program for lack of money. And New York Disaster Interfaith Services, which coordinates response efforts on behalf of thousands of houses of worship in the city and is supported mostly by private foundations, may have to shut down its entire operation by the end of this year, said the agency's executive director, Peter B. Gudaitis.
 Because of the state budget cut, the director of the Human Services Council's disaster response program was laid off and a coordinator was moved to another job. The New York Times Company Foundation, one of the major donors to the disaster contingency fund, plans to find a new manager for the fund. The council and its partners say they will carry out their immediate response efforts as laid out in the council's plan should a disaster occur. 
 ''After the Fire Department, after the Red Cross, we'll come in,'' Mr. Stoller said of the nonprofit sector. ''It will get done. It will get done well, but not as well.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); HURRICANES (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); WEATHER (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); FLOODS & FLOODING (51%); COASTAL AREAS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



645 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Plans for Wholesale Market In Queens Suffer Setback

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Plans to build a $260 million wholesale merchandise mart cater-corner from the glassy new Air Train station in Jamaica, Queens, have been scuttled because the South Korean co-developer has pulled out of the deal, people involved in the project said on Friday. 
 The mart, which was to have included 10 floors of showroom space accommodating 500 businesses, was unveiled in October, a month after the area was rezoned to stimulate the development of a vibrant ''airport village.'' The site, on Sutphin Boulevard and 94th Avenue, once housed the Merkel meatpacking plant, which was shut down in 1965. 
 Paul Travis, the New York developer who spent two years getting the owner of the site to agree to a long-term lease, declined to comment. But Shane Kavanagh, a spokesman for Mr. Travis's company, Washington Square Partners, acknowledged that ''the weakening global economy has affected the project.''
 Mr. Travis's partner, Prime Construction in South Korea, developed Techno-Mart, a shopping center in Seoul that houses 2,000 electronics retailers. The 13-story Jamaica development was to have included 172,000 square feet of retail space and parking for 800 cars. It would have been the company's first project in the United States.
 Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, which provided a $4 million loan for the demolition of the meatpacking plant, said on Friday, ''We understand economic factors may be affecting aspects of the project, and we will continue to do what we can to support redevelopment at the site.''
 This is the second time in recent years that plans for a Korean market in Queens have failed. In 2004, a group of Korean wholesalers from Midtown Manhattan who fear being displaced by rising rents was selected to develop a city-owned site in College Point. But the proposed International Merchandise Mart was shelved after it drew opposition from nearby residents.
 Mr. Kavanagh said Washington Square was working on other plans for the site in Jamaica. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ZONING (79%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (73%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



646 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: How Shopping Around Can Cost You

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER; What happened to your credit when you applied for a student loan? E-mail: rlieber@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
When college financial aid officers got into trouble last year for accepting gifts from lenders, the moral of the story was clear: You could easily overpay for your student loan by simply borrowing from a college's recommended lender without first shopping around. 
 There is just one problem with comparison shopping for a private student loan. Doing so may damage your credit score. Since lenders quote higher interest rates to applicants with lower scores, some students could end up paying thousands of dollars more in interest over the life of their loans. 
 In few other areas of consumer life are you at risk of being penalized for seeking out the best deal. Indeed, mortgage and auto loan seekers who comparison shop within a relatively short period of time do not see their credit scores suffer. But Fair Isaac, the company that helps credit bureaus calculate credit scores, does not extend the same break to private student loan applicants or their parents, who often co-sign for loans. 
 The basic inequity here -- the fact that people borrowing money for higher education are not given the same benefit of the doubt as people shopping for mansions and BMWs -- is unfortunate enough. But the real head-scratcher is how little anyone in the industry seems to know about how often students and their parents suffer damage. Fair Isaac thinks it's rare, if it happens at all. Lenders and student loan brokers think it's common. 
 The disagreement wouldn't matter if Fair Isaac bowed to the will of the New York State attorney general's office. The office has been investigating the student loan industry for more than a year and has asked Fair Isaac to treat student loan borrowers like car and home shoppers. So far, Fair Isaac has refused to change its policy. 
 This issue matters because even a small credit score decline can lead to a more costly interest rate. Every point counts at a time of tightening credit standards, when many lenders have been requiring higher minimum credit scores. In addition, banks have been getting stingier with another source that parents tap for tuition money, home equity loans. 
 How did it come to pass that 18-year-olds were vulnerable to paying more because they shopped around? To answer that question, and develop strategies for credit score damage control, you need to know a bit more about the worlds of student debt and credit score algorithms. 
 Borrowers took out $17.1 billion in private sector loans in the 2006-7 school year, according to preliminary College Board figures. Part of what makes private loans different from other student loans is that rates can range wildly, by several percentage points, even with one lender. 
 To quote a rate, lenders check an applicant's credit history. And every time a shopper asks a lender for a rate quote, it can show up as another inquiry on a credit report. 
 Lots of inquiries send the wrong signals to the formulas that create the popular FICO credit score that Fair Isaac administers, namely that borrowers may be applying for multiple loans because they're financially troubled and potentially going bankrupt. 
 While Fair Isaac has mined years of data to determine that people making a bunch of mortgage and auto loan applications over a short period are almost always innocently shopping for a loan, it hasn't declared student loan shoppers similarly safe. 
 One reason is that the company doesn't have a big pile of private student loan data to mine. These loans are relatively new, and not many people shopped around for the best rate before the student loan scandals erupted. 
 So, in theory, how much could credit scores fall when people shop for loans? Fair Isaac says that each inquiry will generally not cause more than a five-point drop, though it may be more for a student with a short credit history. 
 Lenders generally check credit reports with only one of the three main credit bureaus. If a lender examines only one such report, an applicant avoids damage on the other two bureaus' records. Then again, if all the lenders check with the same credit bureau, the damage may be especially high there. 
 Here's Fair Isaac's problem with this whole discussion: It doesn't believe that any damage occurs most of the time. It believes that the three big credit bureaus don't classify most student lenders specifically enough for the credit scoring system to recognize them. As a result, those inquiries end up in a general category that gets the same treatment as auto and mortgage inquiries. 
 Equifax confirms that it does not specifically classify credit requests from student loan lenders, though a process to do so is in the works. According to Experian, a small drop in a credit score is possible, and whether it happens depends on the type of classification the lender uses. Transunion declined to comment on how its systems mingle with Fair Isaac's equations.
 Frederic Huynh, principal scientist for Fair Isaac, said the company has talked to a handful of lenders about this issue and hasn't found any who say that applicants have experienced credit score drops. How many? ''Probably less than five,'' he said. He declined to name them, citing confidentiality. 
 Sallie Mae, which believes it is the largest private student loan lender, is convinced that there can be an impact. ''We do see it,'' said Tom Joyce, a company spokesman, who added that Sallie Mae, like the New York attorney general, wants Fair Isaac to treat student loan borrowers like car or home borrowers. ''We don't think consumers should be penalized for shopping.''
 Meanwhile, Fair Isaac's explanation came as a huge surprise to Marc Stein, who's been trying for two years to build an online student loan brokerage firm that would allow people to shop for many loans at once without damaging their credit. He's gone so far as to help create a new type of credit check that doesn't damage an applicant's credit score, a move that required approval from Fair Isaac and others in the credit reporting industry. 
 ''I've never had them tell me, 'Oh, you're not addressing a real problem,' '' said Mr. Stein, who's the chief executive of Student Loan Monkey. 
 The fact that nobody knows the extent of the problem is a pathetic state of affairs, given the potential impact on people just getting started in life. And the solution seems pretty simple: Fair Isaac ought to simply give 18-year-olds and their parents the same break it grants shoppers for cars and homes. 
 Fair Isaac says it prefers not to make a move like this without data to back it up. That's fine, but it's sure going to be hard to get it if the credit bureaus can't identify the requests for credit data that come from student lenders. Even if Fair Isaac can get good data, however, Luke Swarthout, higher education associate for the consumer advocacy group U.S. PIRG, says Fair Isaac need not to wait years for it to pile up. 
 ''It's an analytical crutch for them to say that we need to see the data,'' he said. ''There really is only one plausible explanation for a student receiving multiple requests in a short period of time, and that's because a student is shopping around.'' 
 In the meantime, lenders could help a lot by doing the following: First, state on their Web sites which credit bureau or bureaus they are using. Then, state whether that credit bureau is classifying their requests in a way that could damage an applicant's credit score. 
 Meanwhile, some shopping around still makes sense. You'll probably do best by comparing three or four lenders and finding the lowest rate -- even if your credit takes a small hit in the process. 
 Start with a lender or two that your college recommends, since it may have negotiated special terms with them. Mark Kantrowitz, who runs the comprehensive college financing site, finaid.org, suggests shopping one bank, one finance company that specializes in student loans and then looking for nonprofit loan agencies that work with people in the state where you live or the state where you attend college (or both, if you're lucky enough to have a choice). Mr. Kantrowitz has a list of such lenders on his site (I've linked to it from the online version of this column at nytimes.com/yourmoney, where there's also a link to a New York Times Topics Page on student loans), or you can ask people in the financial aid office whether a nonprofit lender serves the college. 
 As you shop, however, keep one other thing in mind: Fair Isaac believes that if there is any credit score impact on applicants' credit scores, it's more likely to occur when people apply to smaller or specialized student loan lenders. Big banks, apparently, are less vulnerable. This will probably not make the scrappy upstarts happy, but they know who they can complain to. 
 Finally, do all of your shopping within a week or two. Right now, there's no sure way to know ahead of time whether the lenders to which you're applying are ones that get a free pass in Fair Isaac's system. If they do, however, you may lose the benefit of the exception by taking months to find a loan. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); LOAN BROKERS (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (92%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



647 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; OP-EXTRA GUEST COLUMNIST THE THROWBACK; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: All-Stars and Layoffs

BYLINE: By BUZZ BISSINGER

 BODY:
As the clock pushed past midnight at Yankee Stadium last Tuesday, I surrendered. The All-Star Game was droning into its fourth hour, into the freaky ozone of what I feared would be infinity given the nobody-wants-to-score nature of the thing. I stopped paying attention. I brooded beyond the game of baseball.
 I worried about how my son and I were going to get back to Philadelphia from the Bronx so he could work later that morning, which at the rate the game was plodding was going to mean the 3 a.m. train. I worried how that second bag of peanuts in the 11th inning would settle, given the already undeniable difficulties of the first bag in the fourth. But mostly I worried about General Motors.
 I am not sure why -- maybe it was those peanuts going down like pellets of lead. But I found it difficult to square the finances of what was taking place here, All-Stars from the American and National Leagues collectively collecting $392 million in salaries for the 2008 season, juxtaposed with employees from the once-mythic carmaker about to get vivisected. 
 The news out of General Motors the same day as the game had been particularly grim, symbolically marking the end of the American economic empire as we know it. There was talk, so unimaginable as to be surreal given its once-seeming impregnability, that G.M. would eventually have to file for bankruptcy. Among the announced cutbacks: a 20 percent reduction in salaried-worker costs, elimination of health care for older white-collar retirees, and a suspension of the company's annual stock dividend of $1 a share.
 But it was what 74-year-old William Parker told The Times that got to me the most. He has cancer, and he had just been placed on a new drug costing $2,700 a month; with a leaner and meaner G.M. eager to satisfy the warlords of Wall Street, the company would now pay only $50 of what Mr. Parker so desperately needed. ''I don't know what the hell I'm going to do,'' he told a reporter. ''I'm fighting for my life here.''
 He isn't the only one asking the very same question in the new America of vanquish. Hundreds of thousands are losing their homes through foreclosure because of the subprime mess. Housing prices are continuing to sink. The banking industry is in upheaval, writing off what some believe will be a trillion dollars in bad loans. The airline business is in upheaval. The newspaper business is in upheaval. American carmakers are in upheaval.
 In May, the unemployment rate was 5.5 percent, up nationally a full percentage point from a year ago. The same month, in the sharpest rise in May in five years, employers cut 50 or more workers from their work force in 1,626 instances, what the Bureau of Labor Statistics bloodlessly referred to as ''mass layoff actions.'' And it seems likely that job losses will only accelerate into 2009. 
 But the tick of obscene salaries just keeps on ticking in professional sports, the one sector of the economy I know of, except for maybe Internet pornography, that still dances merrily along in the bubble of its isolation from the real world. As we try to figure out not just what is fundamentally wrong with the American economy but with America itself, look no further than what is being shelled out to the men who play with bats and balls roughly eight months out of the year (after all, they need their rest after such taxing work). 
 There were 64 players represented on American and National League rosters in the All-Star Game. For the American League, the aggregate 2008 salaries for its 32 players was about $215 million, or nearly $7 million a player, based on a database compiled by USA Today. For the National League roster the figure was slightly less, approximately $177 million, or $5.5 million per player. Taken together, the total figure in salaries comes in just shy of $400 million this season, or the rough equivalent of about 2,500 union autoworker jobs at G.M if you include wages and benefits.
 ''I don't know what the hell I'm going to do. I'm fighting for my life here.''
 At the top is Yankee third baseman Alex Rodriguez, who even without the benefit of Madonna's company will make $28 million this season and could pay the yearly $32,400 cost of Mr. Parker's cancer drug without even knowing the money was gone. The same goes for Yankee shortstop Derek Jeter, who has a 2008 salary of $21.6 million. Or Boston Red Sox outfielder Manny Ramirez at $18.9 million, or Ichiro Suzuki of the Seattle Mariners at $17.1 million, or Chicago Cubs pitcher Carlos Zambrano at $16 million, or Houston Astros shortstop Miguel Tejada at $14.8 million, or New York Mets reliever Billy Wagner at what I suppose is a lowly $10.5 million. On the other hand, given the 72 innings of work he has averaged over the past three seasons, that does come out to $145,833 an inning. 
 Take the salaries of these players and apply a 10 percent cut -- half of what is being lopped off at G.M. -- and you could easily save the 80 jobs that are being lost at The Chicago Tribune for a savings of $9 million. It's a pie-in-the-sky suggestion. The men with their bats and balls have a right to squeeze every nickel out of ownership they can get. Just as they have their own philanthropic foundations that range from the real (Derek Jeter has given hundreds of thousands) to the ridiculous (Rodriguez has given virtually nothing, according to documents from the Sports Philanthropy Project; Ramirez's foundation, according to his own Web site, is still being formed, even though he's been in the majors since 1993).
 So I still believe Alex Rodriguez could live quite comfortably on $25.2 million a year instead of $28 million, as could Ramirez on $17 million instead of $18.9 million. So could all the rest who played in the All-Star Game, with more than enough bottles of top-notch Champagne to swig at the hottest clubs. On his reduced salary, Rodriguez could still share 84,000 bottles of the fine bubbly with Madonna, and Manny Ramirez would have 56,667 at his disposal. 
 It's not going to happen of course. Baseball players are not in the business of saving other businesses, and we as fans are equally to blame with our insistence on keeping the beast in gold. Season tickets through the roof. Five dollars for hot dogs, three of which must go for the sogginess. Authentic uniform shirts upwards of $180. So far at least, we are still paying out. ''Sports is one of the last things that people let go of,'' Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College and an expert in the field of sports business, told me. ''It is one of the things most deeply ingrained in our culture.''
 ''I don't know what the hell I'm going to do. I'm fighting for my life here.''
 What is equally distressing, maybe even more so, is the size of the new contracts and contract extensions that are being handed out to the All-Stars smack in the midst of the country's economic freefall. Philadelphia Phillies closer Brad Lidge, whom many thought was over the hill when he signed a one-year deal for this season for $6.35 million, was rewarded before the All-Star break with a three-year extension worth $37.5 million, plus incentives. Evan Longoria, barely a week after his first big league at-bat with the Tampa Devil Rays, signed a long-term deal that could be worth more than $44 million over nine years. Florida Marlins shortstop Hanley Ramirez, making a paltry $439,000 this season, still more than six times the median family income, was rewarded with a six-year $70 million contract. And it isn't just baseball. Whereas the average salary in baseball is a little over $3 million, the average salary in the National Basketball Association is about $5.2 million, according to Zimbalist. It's an amazing figure, made even more amazing by the fact that anyone who has been to a regular-season N.B.A. game can tell that too many players have little interest in actually playing for the first three and a half quarters. In the N.B.A., contract extensions and free agents signings once again reflect a world of sports separate and unequal from the one that tens of millions of Americans now dwell in as they grapple with the mortgage bill and the credit card bill and the health care bill. Like Elton Brand signing a five-year $79.75 million deal with the Philadelphia 76ers even though he was hurt almost the entire season last year.
 ''I don't know what the hell I'm going to do. I'm fighting for my life here.''
 And let's not forget the N.F.L., with the New York Giants recently announcing that fans, in order to maintain their season tickets, will be charged $1,000 to $20,000. The Giants hope to sell seat licenses for each of the 78,448 seats in their new home, which is what you have to do, I guess, when the cost of your shining colossus is $1.6 billion. 
 In fact, the plethora of new stadium building in the New York area, including not just the new Giants home but the new Yankee Stadium ($1.3 billion) and the new home of the Mets ($850 million) were in place long before the real estate crash. If the owners knew what they know now, they might not be so obscenely lavish. 
 Zimbalist believes that professional sports, like other industries, will have little choice but to pare down if the economy continues to falter. ''I think the salaries in all of the sports follow revenues,'' he told me. ''The longer and deeper the recession, the more sports industry will feel it.''
 I for one can't wait. 
 Because the joy of watching Alex or Derek or Manny at an All-Star Game just isn't joy enough, not when they are making a combined $68.5 million in 2008 while so many of us are scared to death over what will happen next because something surely will.
 ''I don't know what the hell I'm going to do. I'm fighting for my life here.''
 So ask Alex for help, Mr. Parker. Ask him to pay for the cost of your cancer drug so you can live. Ask Manny or any of the players at All-Star Game last week. 
 And then hear the laughter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); HOME PRICES (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); LAYOFFS (56%); AIRLINES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



648 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: CITY AND STATE BRACE FOR DROP IN WALL ST. PAY

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; (B4)

 BODY:
Government officials in New York are preparing for what could be the biggest single-year decline in pay on Wall Street in history and with it a vexing shortfall in city and state revenues.
 A review of the latest statements from the largest financial companies based in the city shows that they intend to hand out about $18 billion less in pay and benefits in 2008 than in 2007. The cutting of payrolls is well under way, but the full effect will not be felt until the year's end, when bonuses for employees based in New York could shrink by $10 billion or more, according to city officials and compensation experts. 
 A decline in bonuses of that magnitude would easily eclipse the drop of 2001, the year of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, when total bonuses declined by $6.5 billion, according to the state comptroller's estimates. City and state officials said the coming plunge in pay would have wrenching effects on the local and regional economies.
 It would mean about $10 billion less in taxable income and several billion dollars less to be spent on apartments, furniture, cars, clothing and services. For many investment bankers and traders, year-end bonuses traditionally account for at least three-fourths of their income. But the downshifting of the Wall Street lifestyle has already begun. 
 ''As long as I've been in the business, I think this is the worst,'' said Vincent Nastri, whose Barclay-Rex tobacco shop down the street from the New York Stock Exchange sells cigars for as much as $35 apiece. ''It's been a little on the quiet side -- a little shaky.''
 All told, Wall Street firms, which employ about 178,000 people in the city, have announced thousands of layoffs in the last year. One of the seven largest financial companies in the city, Bear Stearns, nearly failed in March before it was acquired by JPMorgan Chase & Company.
 It is already clear that employees whose jobs survive the deep cutbacks will, as a group, take home much less money than they did last year or the year before. The latest financial statements from the remaining six of the seven largest firms show that their compensation costs declined by a total of $9.5 billion in the first half of this year, compared with the first half of 2007. Along with JPMorgan Chase, they are Citigroup Incorporated, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers.
 Analysts familiar with those companies said the cuts so far implied an aggregate decline in pay and benefits, including bonuses, of more than $18 billion for the full year. About half of that amount would have gone to people employed in New York City, they said.
 The impact on the state and city budgets is likely to be severe because the financial-services industry provides almost one-fourth of all income earned in the city. That pay accounts for about 10 percent of the city's tax revenue and about 20 percent of the state's, said Kenneth B. Bleiwas, deputy state comptroller for New York City.
 ''One of the things that highly compensated people do is they spend money,'' Mr. Bleiwas said. ''So when Wall Street suffers, the pain ripples through the rest of the economy.''
 The impending decrease in the personal income of so many New York-area residents, Mr. Bleiwas said, ''is a significant reduction which will affect not only state and city coffers but also have a direct impact on other sectors.'' He said the jobs on Wall Street pay so well that on average, each one spawns two jobs in other fields in the city and a third in the surrounding region.
 The state's budget department estimated that the projected decline in bonuses would reduce state tax revenue by about $700 million this fiscal year, which ends March 31, said Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the department. 
 The city comptroller's office is forecasting a drop in bonuses this year ''in excess of 30 percent,'' according to Frank Braconi, the chief economist in the comptroller's office. That would amount to a decline of about $10 billion, based on the $33 billion that the state comptroller estimated was paid out in Wall Street bonuses in each of the last two years.
 Marcia J. Van Wagner, the deputy city comptroller, said the steep decline in pay on Wall Street brought an end to a period when the city's growth outpaced the nation's.
 ''The local economy was propelled longer by the fact that there's been such enormous bonuses,'' Ms. Van Wagner said. ''There was a lot of income kind of zinging around the local economy and keeping us afloat.''
 Ms. Van Wagner described her outlook for the city economy as ''gloomy but not bleak.'' But some compensation consultants said they were beginning to think their forecasts had not been bleak enough.
 Alan Johnson, who as president of Johnson Associates has tracked pay on Wall Street for more than 20 years, said he had been expecting a decline in bonuses of 30 percent to 40 percent this year. But lately, he said, the debate among his colleagues has been: ''Is it actually going to get even worse?''
 With a steadily spreading credit crisis, Wall Street executives are no longer hoping for a rebound this year, Mr. Johnson said. Nor are they worrying about competitors hiring away their best employees, as they still were when they paid out surprisingly large bonuses at the end of last year, he added. 
 Chris Marcello, who uses complex formulas to trade large investments, said he got a preview of the pay drought on Wall Street at the end of last year, when he received a ''token'' bonus of $1,000 from his boss at Bear Stearns. After Bear nearly collapsed, Mr. Marcello, 35, found work at a smaller firm downtown, which pays him monthly bonuses of $1,000 or $2,000, he said.
 For traders accustomed to receiving bonuses of as much as $500,000, the ramifications of the pay cuts are ''huge,'' Mr. Marcello said. ''That's the base of most people's compensation.''
 Down the street at William Barthman, a jewelry boutique that has served the financial district since 1884, the manager, Joel Kopel, lamented the loss of customers. 
 ''The top market is fine. Upper-end people can still afford their Rolexes,'' Mr. Kopel said. The marked drop-off has come in sales of items priced between $500 and $2,500, which he described as midrange.
 Gesturing toward the luxury-goods stores lining Wall Street, John Russo, who has worked in commercial insurance for 35 years, said the steep fall in pay was bound to cause disruption in the financial district.
 ''Look across the street: BMW, Tumi luggage, apartments,'' Mr. Russo said. ''When things get bad, the moving trucks come.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Off a Cliff: Wall Street bonuses could drop 20 to 40 percent this year (Source: Office of the State Deputy Comptroller)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CITIES (77%); BONUS PAY (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INCOME TAX (72%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); TOBACCO STORES (64%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); CITIGROUP INC (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



649 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: MOST POPULAR

 BODY:
Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from July 18 through July 25:
 1. The Debt Trap: Given a Shovel, Americans Dig Deeper Into Debt
 2. Uncomfortable Answers to Questions on the Economy
 3. My Son, the Blogger: An M.D. Trades Medicine for Apple Rumors
 4. Women Are Now Equal as Victims of Poor Economy
 5. Bank Investors Expect Less as Losses Mount
 6. Savage Stands by Autism Remarks
 7. Woes Afflicting Mortgage Giants Raise Loan Rates
 8. Needing a Star, CNBC Made One
 9. Smaller PCs Cause Worry for Industry
 10. Ford to Make Broader Bet on Small Cars 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); MOTOR VEHICLES (82%); AUTISM (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



650 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Better Economic Data Soothes Investors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street ended a volatile week with a moderate gain Friday after better-than-expected economic data placated a market that was pummeled a day earlier by concerns about housing and the financial sector.
 Financials drifted lower again on continued worries about the health of balance sheets, while a surge in profits at Juniper Networks lifted technology stocks.
 The Commerce Department reported that orders sent to factories for big-ticket manufactured goods like cars, appliances and machinery rose by 0.8 percent in June, the strongest gain in four months and well ahead of Wall Street's expectations. But outside demand for military equipment orders was up only modestly. 
 Another Commerce Department report showed that new-home sales dropped by a smaller-than-expected 0.6 percent. While that was the seventh decline in eight months, it stirred some hope that the housing market could be finding a bottom. On Thursday, a weak reading on existing-home sales had investors hitting the sell button.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 21.41 points, or 0.19 percent, to 11,370.69. The Dow, which fluctuated at times Friday, fell more than 280 points Thursday.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 5.22 points, or 0.42 percent, to 1,257.76, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 30.42 points, or 1.33 percent, to 2,310.53.
 There was good news about consumers, whose hesitance about spending has troubled Wall Street because consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of the nation's economic activity. 
 The Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment for the first part of July came in at 61.2; economists had expected a reading of 56.4. The reading was a slight rebound from a 28-year-low last month.
 For the week, the Dow fell 1.09 percent and the S.& P. 500 lost 0.23 percent. Friday's tech rally left the Nasdaq up 1.22 percent. A barrel of light crude oil fell $2.23, to settle at $123.26 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil prices have fallen more than $20 in recent weeks, alleviating some of Wall Street's concerns about the impact of inflation consumers' ability to spend.
 The stock market's volatility during the week -- rallying Tuesday and Wednesday only to erase those gains Thursday -- illustrates the tentativeness behind some of the investor bets, said Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors. 
 ''It's just news-sensitive and the real question is 'What's the next news going to be? Good or bad?' That means that the market doesn't have a trend or a direction. It depends entirely on whether the news is going to be good or bad on any given day and that doesn't give you, as an investor, a lot of confidence,'' he said.
 Mr. Johnson said trading would probably remain uneven as Wall Street awaits next Friday's government employment report for July.
 Financial stocks fell as investors worried about the health of their balance sheets given the weakness in the housing sector. Bank of America fell $1.06, or 3.5 percent, to $29.58, while Wachovia fell $1.19, or 7.6 percent, to $14.50.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac declined after the credit ratings agency Standard & Poor's put the risk-to-government, subordinated debt and preferred stock ratings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on watch for possible downgrade. 
 Fannie Mae fell 47 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $11.55, while Freddie Mac fell 54 cents, or 6.1 percent, to $8.27.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 25/32, to 98 7/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 4.10 percent, from 4.00 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); DEFENSE ORDERS (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: JNPR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



651 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COST OF LIVING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: A Conflict That Came In the Mail

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY. 
M. P. Dunleavey is the author of ''Money Can Buy Happiness'' (Broadway Books, 2007).

 BODY:
THESE are economically stressful times, no question, but lately I have had the reassuring sense that my husband and I are really operating as a team, staying in sync around day-to-day expenses. 
 My happy little financial harmony bubble went pop the other day, however, when my husband acknowledged that for the last couple of months, when he picked up our mail, he had been chucking all my catalogs in the trash. 
 As money conflicts go, this won't crack the top 10. He didn't buy a Harley-Davidson without consulting me; nor did he go berserk over credit card bills and cut up my cards (both of which happened to couples we know). 
 Still, I read a rather pointed criticism of my spending habits in his anticatalog crusade. I think of myself as a browser, not a shopper. Did my more-frugal-than-thou husband view my catalog habit as a financial threat? If that was the case -- and I supposed it was possible that maybe, sometimes, I bought things more often than I should -- then why didn't he just talk to me about it?
 My inquiries led nowhere. ''If you don't see it, you won't want it,'' was one dismissive reply. I considered dropping the whole issue, it seemed so silly. But I couldn't help wondering what was behind his actions. 
 My husband then recounted to me an old ''Odd Couple'' episode, almost as a financial parable, in which Felix acknowledged that he had been filching Oscar's scattered dollar bills and spare change -- and had amassed something like $2,000. The moral of the story was that Felix never spent any of Oscar's money; he saved it because Oscar was irresponsible. ''It was for his own good,'' my husband said. 
 Now I was ready to kill him. So I was an irredeemable catalog junkie, wasting money right and left? Rather than compound his mail tampering with homicide charges of my own, I ran the problem by Amanda Clayman, a financial therapist in New York who writes a blog about financial behavior, The Good, the Bad and the Money. 
 Ms. Clayman speculated that while I found browsing diverting and fun, my husband might view it differently. ''It might not be so hypothetical for him,'' she said. ''He might worry, 'How can we afford that?' ''
 Or, she said, perhaps I enjoyed glancing at those artful West Elm or Crate & Barrel pages even though they leave me disgruntled and covetous, an effect that my husband would be more aware of than I am.
 Ms. Clayman happened to mention a book that is geared toward unraveling money conflicts: ''Money and Meaning,'' by Judith Stern Peck, director of the Money and Family Life project at the Ackerman Institute for the Family in New York, which specializes in family therapy and professional training.
 Because I'm running my own personal money and family life project, I called Ms. Peck for some insight. She said the timing of my husband's catalog campaign might be important. 
 FOR many couples now, she says, economic anxiety -- on a broad scale as well as on a personal level -- is contributing to marital strife and miscommunication. 
 The stress point isn't always money itself, but the values and expectations that each partner brings to the table about earning, spending and how to live life. ''People rarely sit down and say, 'This is our income, this is what we have, and this is how we want to spend it,' '' she said. When I spilled out these thoughts to my husband, during a short amble down our country road, he said, ''You could have just asked me to bring home the catalogs.'' 
 Maybe so. But silly as it was, our conflict was a good springboard into the points Ms. Peck raised. While he didn't feel he was particularly anxious about money because of the queasy economy, my husband did say that he felt catalogs, in general, were unnecessary evils. Why invite the temptation, he said, when there were so many other goals we were trying to achieve?
 I agreed, in principle. And although he said that I did seem grumpy and discontented after paging though L.L. Bean's latest collection of Adirondack chairs, I did ask him to start bringing the catalogs home again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



652 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: How Shopping Around Can Cost You

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
When college financial aid officers got into trouble last year for accepting gifts from lenders, the moral of the story was clear: You could easily overpay for your student loan by simply borrowing from a college's recommended lender without first shopping around. 
 There is just one problem with comparison shopping for a private student loan. Doing so may damage your credit score. Since lenders quote higher interest rates to applicants with lower scores, some students could end up paying thousands of dollars more in interest over the life of their loans.
In few other areas of consumer life are you at risk of being penalized for seeking out the best deal. Indeed, mortgage and auto loan seekers who comparison shop within a relatively short period of time do not see their credit scores suffer. But Fair Isaac, the company that helps credit bureaus calculate credit scores, does not extend the same break to private student loan applicants or their parents, who often co-sign for loans. 
 The basic inequity here -- the fact that people borrowing money for higher education are not given the same benefit of the doubt as people shopping for mansions and BMWs -- is unfortunate enough. But the real head-scratcher is how little anyone in the industry seems to know about how often students and their parents suffer damage. Fair Isaac thinks it's rare, if it happens at all. Lenders and student loan brokers think it's common. 
 The disagreement wouldn't matter if Fair Isaac bowed to the will of the New York State attorney general's office. The office has been investigating the student loan industry for more than a year and has asked Fair Isaac to treat student loan borrowers like car and home shoppers. So far, Fair Isaac has refused to change its policy. 
 This issue matters because even a small credit score decline can lead to a more costly interest rate. Every point counts at a time of tightening credit standards, when many lenders have been requiring higher minimum credit scores. In addition, banks have been getting stingier with another source that parents tap for tuition money, home equity loans. 
 How did it come to pass that 18-year-olds were vulnerable to paying more because they shopped around? To answer that question, and develop strategies for credit score damage control, you need to know a bit more about the worlds of student debt and credit score algorithms. 
 Borrowers took out $17.1 billion in private sector loans in the 2006-7 school year, according to preliminary College Board figures. Part of what makes private loans different from other student loans is that rates can range wildly, by several percentage points, even with one lender. 
 To quote a rate, lenders check an applicant's credit history. And every time a shopper asks a lender for a rate quote, it can show up as another inquiry on a credit report. 
 Lots of inquiries send the wrong signals to the formulas that create the popular FICO credit score that Fair Isaac administers, namely that borrowers may be applying for multiple loans because they're financially troubled and potentially going bankrupt. 
 While Fair Isaac has mined years of data to determine that people making a bunch of mortgage and auto loan applications over a short period are almost always innocently shopping for a loan, it hasn't declared student loan shoppers similarly safe. 
 One reason is that the company doesn't have a big pile of private student loan data to mine. These loans are relatively new, and not many people shopped around for the best rate before the student loan scandals erupted. 
 So, in theory, how much could credit scores fall when people shop for loans? Fair Isaac says that each inquiry will generally not cause more than a five-point drop, though it may be more for a student with a short credit history. 
 Lenders generally check credit reports with only one of the three main credit bureaus. If a lender examines only one such report, an applicant avoids damage on the other two bureaus' records. Then again, if all the lenders check with the same credit bureau, the damage may be especially high there. 
 Here's Fair Isaac's problem with this whole discussion: It doesn't believe that any damage occurs most of the time. It believes that the three big credit bureaus don't classify most student lenders specifically enough for the credit scoring system to recognize them. As a result, those inquiries end up in a general category that gets the same treatment as auto and mortgage inquiries. 
 Equifax confirms that it does not specifically classify credit requests from student loan lenders, though a process to do so is in the works. According to Experian, a small drop in a credit score is possible, and whether it happens depends on the type of classification the lender uses. Transunion declined to comment on how its systems mingle with Fair Isaac's equations.
 Frederic Huynh, principal scientist for Fair Isaac, said the company has talked to a handful of lenders about this issue and hasn't found any who say that applicants have experienced credit score drops. How many? ''Probably less than five,'' he said. He declined to name them, citing confidentiality. 
 Sallie Mae, which believes it is the largest private student loan lender, is convinced that there can be an impact. ''We do see it,'' said Tom Joyce, a company spokesman, who added that Sallie Mae, like the New York attorney general, wants Fair Isaac to treat student loan borrowers like car or home borrowers. ''We don't think consumers should be penalized for shopping.''
 Meanwhile, Fair Isaac's explanation came as a huge surprise to Marc Stein, who's been trying for two years to build an online student loan brokerage firm that would allow people to shop for many loans at once without damaging their credit. He's gone so far as to help create a new type of credit check that doesn't damage an applicant's credit score, a move that required approval from Fair Isaac and others in the credit reporting industry. 
 ''I've never had them tell me, 'Oh, you're not addressing a real problem,' '' said Mr. Stein, who's the chief executive of Student Loan Monkey. 
 The fact that nobody knows the extent of the problem is a pathetic state of affairs, given the potential impact on people just getting started in life. And the solution seems pretty simple: Fair Isaac ought to simply give 18-year-olds and their parents the same break it grants shoppers for cars and homes. 
 Fair Isaac says it prefers not to make a move like this without data to back it up. That's fine, but it's sure going to be hard to get it if the credit bureaus can't identify the requests for credit data that come from student lenders. Even if Fair Isaac can get good data, however, Luke Swarthout, higher education associate for the consumer advocacy group U.S. PIRG, says Fair Isaac need not to wait years for it to pile up. 
 ''It's an analytical crutch for them to say that we need to see the data,'' he said. ''There really is only one plausible explanation for a student receiving multiple requests in a short period of time, and that's because a student is shopping around.'' 
 In the meantime, lenders could help a lot by doing the following: First, state on their Web sites which credit bureau or bureaus they are using. Then, state whether that credit bureau is classifying their requests in a way that could damage an applicant's credit score. 
 Meanwhile, some shopping around still makes sense. You'll probably do best by comparing three or four lenders and finding the lowest rate -- even if your credit takes a small hit in the process. 
 Start with a lender or two that your college recommends, since it may have negotiated special terms with them. Mark Kantrowitz, who runs the comprehensive college financing site, finaid.org, suggests shopping one bank, one finance company that specializes in student loans and then looking for nonprofit loan agencies that work with people in the state where you live or the state where you attend college (or both, if you're lucky enough to have a choice). Mr. Kantrowitz has a list of such lenders on his site (I've linked to it from the online version of this column at nytimes.com/yourmoney, where there's also a link to a New York Times Topics Page on student loans), or you can ask people in the financial aid office whether a nonprofit lender serves the college. 
 As you shop, however, keep one other thing in mind: Fair Isaac believes that if there is any credit score impact on applicants' credit scores, it's more likely to occur when people apply to smaller or specialized student loan lenders. Big banks, apparently, are less vulnerable. This will probably not make the scrappy upstarts happy, but they know who they can complain to. 
 Finally, do all of your shopping within a week or two. Right now, there's no sure way to know ahead of time whether the lenders to which you're applying are ones that get a free pass in Fair Isaac's system. If they do, however, you may lose the benefit of the exception by taking months to find a loan. 
 What happened to your credit when you applied for a student loan? E-mail: rlieber@nytimes.com. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); LOAN BROKERS (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (92%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008



653 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Behind a G.O.P. Revolt, Ideology and Politics

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When three-quarters of House Republicans balked Wednesday at a housing bill certain to become law, they were signaling three things at once: an ideological opposition to government involvement in the markets, a fiscal objection to writing a blank check that could cost taxpayers dearly if the condition of the mortgage finance system turns much worse and a political judgment that this was a moment to demonstrate their independence from President Bush.
 Since Mr. Bush had already abandoned his threat to veto the bill, it was clear that their resistance was futile. The measure had overwhelming support in the House, and there was no sign of significant opposition in the Senate, which voted Friday, 80 to 13, to cut off debate, clearing the way for approval of the measure there on Saturday. 
 In some ways, the House mutiny was startling. Favored Republican constituencies -- the nation's bankers, home builders, mortgage brokers, real estate agents and money managers -- wanted the bill passed, and the White House and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. were saying that the mortgage crisis made approval imperative to prevent ever widening economic damage.
 The Democrats, who had worked closely with Mr. Paulson in reaching agreement on the measure, were dumbfounded when 149 House Republicans opposed it. (Forty-five backed it.)
 ''It shows that we are the adults around here,'' said Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, who, like other Democrats, pronounced Republican opponents guilty of irresponsible political pandering.
 Republicans said they were just sticking up for the taxpayer in opposing what they saw as a badly flawed measure that could cost Americans many billions of dollars if the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac ran into more trouble. They also said a provision encouraging banks to give better rates to distressed homeowners would ultimately cause the Federal Housing Administration to pay off bad loans. And they really did not like yet another provision, making nearly $4 billion in grants available for local governments to buy up distressed properties.
 All in all, said Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, the legislation ''will be an incredible waste of taxpayer funds.''
 That stance may put Mr. Boehner at odds not only with Mr. Bush but also with the party's presumed presidential nominee, Senator John McCain. Mr. McCain, like Senator Barack Obama, is not expected to be present for Saturday's vote, but he would be inclined to back the measure, a spokesman said, though it is imperfect.
 Mr. Boehner and other House Republicans were furious at the White House for signing on to the bill, and they pointed to Mr. Paulson as the culprit. For his part, according to lawmakers who had discussions with the Treasury secretary, Mr. Paulson privately complained that the Republicans simply did not grasp the severity of the economic threat posed by the potential for a housing collapse.
 What they do grasp is a need to draw some sharp distinctions between themselves and Democrats, and to reassert themselves as ardent foes of wasteful government spending. They are convinced that traveling a wayward fiscal path was the reason for their undoing in 2006.
 ''We learned our lesson after the 2006 election,'' said a chastened Mr. Boehner. ''I'd be the first to admit that I think some of my colleagues lost their way leading up to the '06 election.''
 Senior Republican officials acknowledged privately that another factor had also been at work in the Republican tide against the housing bill: the prospect of a leadership fight after the fall elections. Given the chance of losses in November, the current leadership team is not assured another term at the top. And Mr. Boehner, other Republican leaders and potential challengers are doing what they can to demonstrate their conservative bona fides to the rightward-tilting House Republican membership.
 ''I believe rewarding, encouraging and reinforcing risky investments should not be the role of the government and certainly shouldn't be financed by taxpayers,'' said Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the No. 2 Republican, in explaining his stance against the bill. 
 Former Speaker Newt Gingrich spoke at a private party meeting before the vote and joined Mr. Boehner in encouraging Republicans to oppose the measure, rallying lawmakers who remember that it was Mr. Gingrich's ideas that prevailed in the halcyon days of the Republican revolution.
 Some Republicans, who had already been moving away from the president on domestic issues, say the vote was not all that risky. They knew that the bill, enjoying solid support from Senate Republicans, would become law, and so they could not be held accountable for scuttling it if the economy crashed. 
 Still, their opposition is not without potential consequences. If the bankers and brokers cannot count on House Republicans, perhaps their political contributions and support should flow elsewhere, a point that Democrats will no doubt try to drive home with those constituencies.
 ''It is just amazing that someone would roll the dice on the economy for an ideological concept,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
 Republican strategists say they are not worried. One chief Congressional aide says K Street representatives of the financial world did not weigh in heavily in the House to make the bill a do-or-die issue. But the conservative Club for Growth did, encouraging lawmakers to vote against it and warning that they would be judged accordingly. And it is the Club for Growth, not the American Bankers Association, that in recent years has backed primary campaigns against those it perceives as Republican apostates.
 On the housing bill, most House Republicans simply decided in the end to align with their conservative base.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative John A. Boehner, the Republican leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); VETO (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); APPROVALS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); HENRY PAULSON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



654 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Maybe Planes Could Learn From the Trains

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''End Gridlock on the Runway,'' by Mary E. Peters (Op-Ed, July 22):
 The New York aviation market is congested because of excess competition, not mispriced airport access. The worst gridlock isn't on the runways; it's at Congress and the Department of Transportation. 
 Ms. Peters, the transportation secretary, proposes flexible pricing in which airlines pay more to use airports at peak times. All this would do is pass yet more costs on to consumers. The underlying issue -- competitive congestion -- would be left unaddressed.
 Commuter rail service provides an instructive model: in some places, pricing is effectively flat regardless of season or time of day. During peak travel times, an additional car is simply added to the train. We do not see additional competing service that clogs up rail lines and terminals.
 Before we try economic concepts like congestion pricing and auctions, we should establish a comprehensive policy that recognizes the true penalties of redundant, competing service and works to achieve more balanced supply levels.
 Matt Andersson Chicago, July 22, 2008
 The writer is president of Indigo Aerospace. 
 To the Editor:
 I agree with Transportation Secretary Mary E. Peters that we need peak pricing of airline landing fees. However, another peak pricing mechanism was not mentioned: let airports levy a peak-hour passenger fee that would induce people to fly during less congested times.
 George F. Wiggers Ancramdale, N.Y., July 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Flight caps? Auctions? Market forces? Complicated schemes and political fiddle-faddle will not solve the problems of New York City's congested airspace and overburdened airports.
 Instead, restrict the New York airports to serving the needs of the busy area. For example, ban flight ''connections'' to Europe at La Guardia, Kennedy and Newark Airports. Airlines could redistribute this traffic to other domestic hubs that are better equipped to handle the load.
 Gerald West Cleveland, Ga., July 22, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Why not approach transportation in a multimodal framework as the Chinese are doing with the new high-speed train that will take people from Beijing to Tianjin for Olympic events?
 A solution to air gridlock is to have a high-speed rail network so that no one flies distances of less than 500 miles.
 Michael Paluszek Princeton, N.J., July 22, 2008
 The writer is president and founder of Princeton Satellite Systems. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); TRAINS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); OLYMPICS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: MARY PETERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



655 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Putin's Criticism Puts a $6 Billion Hole in a Company

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
When Vladimir V. Putin talks, investors in Russia listen. And some head for the door.
 Speaking at an industry conference this week, Mr. Putin, the former president and now prime minister, spoke five sentences critical of a Russian steel company, Mechel, and its billionaire chief executive, Igor Zyuzin.
 In a sign of Mr. Putin's enduring power, the criticism cost shareholders about $1.2 billion a sentence. 
 Such is the power of Mr. Putin's words -- even after ''stepping down'' to prime minister in May -- that shares in Mechel, a coal mining and steel company, plunged almost 38 percent on the New York Stock Exchange after Mr. Putin complained that the company was charging domestic customers more than its foreign ones. 
 The comments wiped out, at least for a day, about $6 billion in shareholder value.
 Mechel, which closed Wednesday at $36.61 in New York, tumbled $13.77 on Thursday to close at $22.84. The company, which responded Friday, gained $3.36 to close at $26.20. 
 The company's shares trade in New York as American depositary receipts. Mr. Putin spoke Thursday evening at the conference in Nizhny Novogorod, southeast of Moscow.
 On the heels of the imprisonment of one tycoon and some bare-knuckled corporate raids and renegotiations of large energy contracts under Mr. Putin, the market did not take his comment lightly.
 Over all, the Russian stock market plunged 5 percent Friday, on fears the comments might presage another attack on a company similar to the destruction of Yukos oil company in 2004. 
 ''There is a good deal of understandable anger in the market towards Russia,'' Roland Nash, head of research at the Renaissance Capital brokerage in Moscow, wrote in an investor note Friday. The turmoil ignited by Mr. Putin's words, Mr. Nash wrote, was ''only accentuated by the falling oil price and the dismal situation in global markets.'' 
 ''Political risk is rising,'' he added. 
 The swift drop in Mechel shares also came as a sharp counterpoint to months of effort by Mr. Putin's successor, Dmitri A. Medvedev, to burnish Russia's image as an investor-friendly country, where the rule of law is improving and corruption diminishing. 
 The remarks coincided with the departure of the American chief executive of BP's joint venture in Russia, which is under pressure from its Russian partners and the government, in another glum sign for investors. 
 After leaving Russia, the executive, Robert Dudley, issued a statement accusing the Russian authorities of pressuring his company. The Kremlin has denied any hand in the conflict. 
 Mr. Putin's $6 billion speech began simply enough. 
 ''We have a respected company, Mechel,'' Mr. Putin said in introducing his subject. 
 ''By the way, we invited the owner and director of the company, Igor Vladimirovich Zyuzin, to today's meeting, but he suddenly got sick. Meanwhile, it is known that in the first quarter this year the company exported raw materials abroad at half the domestic, and world, price. And what about the margin of tax for the government?'' 
 He added: ''Of course, sickness is sickness, but I think Igor Vladimirovich should get better as quick as possible; otherwise we'll have to send him a doctor to clear up all these problems.'' 
 Mr. Zyuzin rose from a mining engineer in the hardscrabble Kuzbas coal basin in western Siberia to own one of Russia's largest steel and coal conglomerates, with a fortune estimated at $2.1 billion. 
 In an earlier scandal at his company, Mr. Zyuzin bought out his partner, Vladimir Iorikh, who sold his shares at a discount and fled Russia, reportedly after receiving threats from rival steel tycoons. 
 Mr. Putin's comments came in the broader context of a discussion of rising raw materials costs and the prospect of imposing high export tariffs on steel as a result. 
 With inflation rising fast in Russia, particularly for manufacturing materials like steel, government officials are concerned about the impact on an extensive infrastructure effort that is a centerpiece of Mr. Putin's economic program. 
 The government is also seeking to diversify the economy away from its dependence on raw materials exports, as a way to provide employment and protection against a possible retreat commodity prices. 
 In response to Mr. Putin's comments, the company issued a contrite statement Friday seeking to calm the waters. 
 ''Mechel shares the concerns of the government of the Russian Federation, steel plants and metallurgical industry in regard to the growth of prices for steel and raw materials in the recent time,'' the statement said. ''Mechel is ready for cooperation with federal authorities of the Russian Federation and, if required, will provide complete information on any arising issues,'' it added. 
 But if there were any doubt about who truly holds sway over Russia's oil-fueled economy, the power of Mr. Putin's words should put that to rest. 
 Indeed, his successor, Mr. Medvedev, has spoken often of the need to improve Russia's climate for investment and rule of law, so far with little effect. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, center, and other officials on their way to meet with metal producers on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY ALEXEI DRUZHININ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); CORRUPTION (69%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); COAL MINING (55%)

COMPANY: MECHEL OAO (92%); OAO NK YUKOS (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

TICKER: MTLR (RTS) (92%); MTL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); ROBERT DUDLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



656 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Obama Heads for Paris and London

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Nicholas Kulish contributed reporting from Berlin, and Katrin Bennhold from Paris.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama came to Paris for a meeting and news conference with the French President, Nicolas Sarkozy, on Friday, the latest stop in his weeklong trip to the Middle East and Europe. Their discussion was expected to concentrate on Iran.
 Mr. Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, later headed off to London for the night, the last stop on an overseas tour that is designed to prove to voters that he can handle foreign policy and answer criticisms on his foreign policy experience from his Republican rival, John McCain.
 So far for Mr. Obama, who came to Europe once in the last four years, making a stop in London on his way to Russia, the response of many Europeans to his potential presidency has been gratifying -- emotional, responsive, replete with the sense of hope he seeks to engender about a more flexible, less ideological America.
 On Thursday evening in a glittering Berlin, cheered by as many as 200,000 people, Mr. Obama delivered a tone poem to American and European ideals and shared history. In contrast, just before he spoke, Mr. McCain, was sitting in Schmidt's Sausage Haus und Restaurant in Columbus, Ohio, having a bratwurst, and saying grumpily that he would prefer to speak to Germans when he is president, not before. 
 But for all the rock-star excitement abroad -- reminiscent of the European embrace of the last Democratic president, Bill Clinton -- Mr. Obama was vague on crucial issues of trade, defense and foreign policy that currently divide Washington from Europe and are likely to continue to do so even if he becomes president. These issues range from Russia, Turkey, Iran and Afghanistan to new refueling tankers and chlorinated chickens, the focus of an 11-year European ban on American poultry imports.
 Europeans admire Mr. Obama's political skills, and welcome his apparent readiness to respect opposing points of view. For many here, that raises the prospect of a sharp break with the policies of the Bush administration, especially in its first term, when the United States chose to ignore the Geneva Conventions at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, rejected the Kyoto accord on global warming and invaded Iraq, starting a war that some of America's European allies opposed.
 ''Will we acknowledge that there is no more powerful example than the one each of our nations projects to the world?'' Mr. Obama asked in his speech, then added pointedly, ''Will we reject torture and stand for the rule of law?'' The huge crowd applauded and waved American flags.
 ''On the positive side, we can expect somebody who reasons the way we do in Europe,'' said Pierre Rousselin, the foreign editor of Le Figaro, a French newspaper, after the speech. ''That said, on climate issues, the economy and world politics there are still questions. There will be a difference, but very quickly Obama will be faced with concrete questions, like Afghanistan.''
 Eberhard Sandschneider of the German Council on Foreign Relations said, ''The Obama who spoke tonight did not put all his cards on the table.'' Mr. Obama ''tried to use all the symbolism of Berlin to indicate that as president he would reach out to Europe,'' Mr. Sandschneider said. ''But between the lines he said very clearly that Europe needs to do more,'' especially on Afghanistan and Iraq.
 Europeans are wary about Mr. Obama's call for more European money for defense and more soldiers for the fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan. They worry that he will not alter what they see as President Bush's unbending bias in favor of Israel. 
 And, despite what appears to be his sensitivity to European concerns, they perceive Mr. Obama as largely uninterested in Europe, even though he is chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee responsible for the region. As the newspaper Le Monde pointed out on Thursday, Mr. Obama has never asked to meet the European Union's ambassador in Washington.
 But European leaders are particularly concerned about Mr. Obama's positions on trade, taken during the bruising Democratic campaign against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, which seem to many to veer toward protectionism.
 Europe's trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, last month urged both Mr. Obama and his Republican rival, Senator John McCain, to reject ''the false comforts of populism'' and abandon ''the protectionist and antitrade rhetoric'' that dominated the primaries. 
 Mr. Mandelson noted that Mr. Obama had pledged to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement and had opposed a new trade deal with Colombia. ''A crisis of American confidence in globalization,'' Mr. Mandelson said, ''could knock it off course.''
 Mr. Obama in his address spoke of the need for Europeans and Americans to recognize common challenges in an easily traveled world of radical Islam, nuclear proliferation, carbon emissions, violence, poverty and genocide. 
 But he offered more tepid support for free trade, even as negotiators in Geneva, including Mr. Mandelson, try to break an impasse that has dogged global trade talks for seven years. He said he wanted to ''build on the wealth that open markets have created'' but only if trade agreements were ''free and fair for all,'' a phrase that suggests fidelity to the trade-wary stance of one wing of the Democratic Party.
 Europeans are upset about a recent decision by the Pentagon to order a new round of bidding for a $35 billion contract for aerial refueling tankers. A European-led consortium won the lucrative contract, beating Boeing, earlier this year. But Boeing and its Congressional supporters managed to have the bid reviewed and ultimately overturned.
 The Europeans are unhappy with a five-year, $289 billion farm bill that maintains sizable subsidies for American farmers, even as the Europeans vow to review their own farm subsidies as a spur to trade talks. The United States complains that the European ban on American poultry costs American farmers about $200 million a year. The Europeans do not like the chlorine bath Americans use to disinfect their chickens, an argument that is less about safety than about taste.
 Mr. Obama offered greater support for Europe's great experiment in shared sovereignty, the European Union, which now includes 27 nations. ''In this century, we need a strong European Union that deepens the security and prosperity of this continent, while extending a hand abroad,'' he said, a nod to the large amounts of foreign assistance the Europeans provide. 
 He referred repeatedly to ''European'' people and values, drawing a contrast with the Bush administration, which has often sought to recruit individual European countries, like Britain and Poland, to support its policies, while doing less to cultivate ties to the broader European Union. Washington views the European Union as being dominated by France and Germany and less eager to follow America's foreign policy. 
 But Mr. Obama also called for a more muscular Europe to act with the United States in the common defense, a politically delicate matter here that is likely to prove an irritant no matter who wins the presidency.
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has sent more troops to Afghanistan, but he has faced fierce political criticism for doing so. The Germans continue to be unwilling to send their troops from the safer northern provinces of Afghanistan to the south, where the Taliban is resurgent.
 Hubert Vedrine, a former French foreign minister, said, ''I don't think Europe is a major stake for'' Mr. Obama, adding, ''It's the support that Europeans can bring to his politics that matters.''
 Mr. Obama indulged in ''some pro-German demagogy on nuclear weapons to get applause,'' Mr. Vedrine said. But he said Mr. Obama's call for more European engagement in Afghanistan would not go over so well.
 Even on Iran, where so far Washington and the main European countries have cooperated in their effort to prevent Tehran from getting a nuclear weapon, Mr. Obama refuses to rule out a military option -- a position that, as Le Monde said, ''is judged unproductive by most Europeans.''
 Still, his willingness for some form of prepared negotiation with Iran is much closer to European views than that of Mr. Bush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POULTRY (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); CLIMATE CHANGE (65%); IMPORT CONTROLS (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (74%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); FRANCE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



657 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Strengthens Zimbabwe Sanctions

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush expanded sanctions against Zimbabwe on Friday even as he held out the possibility of a reversal in American policy if negotiations now under way result ''in a new government that reflects the will of the Zimbabwean people.''
 Calling Zimbabwe's government illegitimate, Mr. Bush ordered the new sanctions to intensify pressure on President Robert Mugabe, his political supporters and government-connected businesses after elections marred by violence and intimidation and widely denounced as fraudulent. 
 ''No regime should ignore the will of its own people and calls from the international community without consequences,'' Mr. Bush said in a statement that accompanied an executive order expanding American sanctions.
 Mr. Bush's step came two weeks after Russia and China vetoed an American-led effort to impose international sanctions on Zimbabwe. Both countries argued that the United Nations Security Council should not interfere in Zimbabwe's internal affairs.
 The Bush administration, frustrated by the vetoes, has since focused on expanding the scope of existing American sanctions, in particular singling out banks and mining companies, which provide Zimbabwe with its main source of foreign currency, an administration official said. 
 The latest move was carefully coordinated with the European Union, which also tightened sanctions on Mr. Mugabe and other senior officials this week. 
 The Bush administration official, who was not authorized to speak on the record about administration deliberations, said the sanctions by the United States and the European Union were an effort, despite the Security Council vote, to intensify international diplomatic and economic pressure on Mr. Mugabe's government. Even as Mr. Mugabe remains defiant, his government has shown signs of bending to demands from opponents at home and abroad.
 On Monday Mr. Mugabe and his main challenger, Morgan Tsvangirai, the opposition leader, agreed to hold negotiations aimed at ending the political and economic turmoil that has convulsed Zimbabwe since the first round of presidential elections in March, which Mr. Tsvangirai's party and his supporters say he won outright. 
 The official results required a runoff on June 27, but Mr. Tsvangirai dropped out, citing intimidation and violence against his supporters. Mr. Mugabe was declared the winner of the runoff in the face of international condemnation.
 Representatives of both men continue to meet in South Africa in an attempt to form a national unity government, though Mr. Mugabe's opponents remain deeply skeptical that he intends to share power after a bloody election campaign that included the beatings and killings of opposition supporters.
 In his statement, Mr. Bush sought to offer both a carrot and a stick. He said that the United States would offer ''a substantial assistance package'' to the impoverished and politically tumultuous country if a representative government took office, presumably without Mr. Mugabe as president. 
 Separately, he ordered the State Department to free up $2.5 million in emergency assistance for refugees and people seeking political asylum from Mr. Mugabe's government. He said that the United States would continue to contribute humanitarian aid.
 Arvind Ganesan, director of business and human rights for Human Rights Watch, said that the impact of the sanctions would depend on how aggressively the United States enforces them and whether other international corporations also abide by them, even if not required by law to do so. He called that ''the chilling effect.''
 ''It signals the administration is getting frustrated by the slow reaction of the international community,'' he said.
 Before Friday's action, the United States already imposed sanctions against Mr. Mugabe, the country's president for 28 years, and 129 other individuals and 35 businesses. Those sanctions freeze all assets in banks within United States jurisdiction and prohibit Americans from trading with the individuals or businesses. The American sanctions against Zimbabwe first went into effect in 2003 and were expanded in 2005.
 Friday's order added 17 more businesses, which the Treasury Department said in an unusually pointed statement were used by Mr. Mugabe and his ''regime cronies'' to ''illegally siphon revenue and foreign exchange from the Zimbabwean people.'' 
 The companies include the Zimbabwe Mining Development Corporation, which controls all mineral exports; the Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company, the country's largest steel works; the commercial arm of Zimbabwe's army, known as Osleg, or Operation Sovereign Legitimacy; and several of the country's largest banks.
 The sanctions also apply to Thamer bin Saeed Ahmed al-Shanfari, an Omani whose company, Oryx Natural Resources, has close ties to Mr. Mugabe, the Treasury Department says. 
 The administration official described the sanctions as significant in impact, if not in scope, because the added businesses were ''actually the ones generating the cash flow'' the government used to pay for militias that were implicated in the election violence. 
 The official said Mr. Bush's order left open the possibility that more enterprises and individuals could be named if political conditions worsened in Zimbabwe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VETO (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); REFUGEES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (60%); MINES & MINING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



658 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Overhauls Divisions to Focus on Heavy Industry

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
General Electric announced on Friday that it would reduce its divisions to four from six, reflecting efforts by its chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, to shed slow-growing businesses as its stock trades near a five-year low. 
 The main divisions will now be GE Technology Infrastructure, GE Energy Infrastructure, GE Capital and NBC Universal, the company, based in Fairfield, Conn., said. 
 The new structure emphasizes Mr. Immelt's priorities as he tries to shield G.E. from economic swings by divesting it of consumer units and exploiting its role as the world's biggest maker of power-plant turbines and jet engines. About $81 billion of G.E.'s market value has evaporated since April, when Mr. Immelt disclosed a surprise first-quarter earnings decline that he attributed to turmoil in financial markets.
 ''I appreciate the idea of breaking up infrastructure to highlight the technology aspect,'' Robert Schenosky, an analyst with Jefferies & Company who rates the shares hold and does not own any, said. ''Where I do get concerned about the consolidation from six groups to four is the level of transparency we may get going forward.''
 In particular, the formerly separate health care group, which will be folded into the technology infrastructure unit, is one area where performance will be harder to track, he said.
 G.E. was unchanged at $28.71 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 22 percent since April 10, the day before Mr. Immelt told investors he would miss this year's profit target of at least $2.42 a share.
 Mr. Immelt has sold slower-growing and capital-intensive businesses like insurance and plastics for more than $55 billion and made more than $80 billion in acquisitions in health care, water treatment and power-generation equipment. 
 Mr. Immelt said in May that he intended to change G.E.'s product mix to about 60 percent nonfinancial by 2010, making it more valuable to investors who assign higher stock values to industrial companies.
 This month Mr. Immelt announced plans to sell G.E.'s consumer-lending operations in Japan for about $5.4 billion, one day after saying he would pursue the spinoff of G.E.'s consumer lighting and electrical switches business in addition to the century-old appliances unit.
 G.E. Unit Gets Wells Notice
 A financing arm of General Electric was told this month that the Securities and Exchange Commission is considering a civil action against it, the company said in an S.E.C. filing on Friday.
 G.E.'s Funding Capital Market Services received a Wells notice on July 21, indicating that the S.E.C. is considering recommending action against the company over the way certain former employees bid for municipal securities, the company said.
 The S.E.C. and the antitrust division of the Department of Justice are investigating sales of guaranteed investment contracts, G.E. said, and it is one of several companies to have received Wells notices in connection with the matter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A General Electric jet engine on display this month at an air show in Farnborough, England. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMON DAWSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES LAW (86%); POWER PLANTS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (69%); GE ENERGY (59%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008



659 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: Towns They Don't Want to Leave

BYLINE: By RACHEL AVIV. 
Rachel Aviv teaches freshman writing at Columbia.

 BODY:
AFTER graduating from Brown in May, David Noriega, a 21-year-old comparative literature major from Binghamton, N.Y., moved a few miles away from campus and began reading the books he didn't have time for in college. While most of his classmates have started jobs in new cities, he is paying cheap rent, playing in a noise band, working on translating two Mexican novels -- a voluntary extension of his thesis -- and looking for a day job that's ''probably not motivating or career-furthering.''
 ''The graduation ceremony is this giant, expensive gesture telling you that you are done here,'' says Mr. Noriega. ''And yet I'm still wandering around the same spaces, passing the desolate main green, wondering what exactly it is that I'm doing.''
 Mr. Noriega, faced with the pressure of graduation, is not alone in his decision to, more or less, ignore it. Come commencement, many linger for months or years, prolonging the intermediate stage between college and the rest of their lives. 
 ''This generation doesn't know what to do with its own freedom,'' says Ethan Watters, author of ''Urban Tribes: A Generation Redefines Friendship, Family and Commitment.'' ''As the average age of marriage continues to rise, the length of time that college graduates live alone before starting a family is unprecedented. People now have 10, even 15 years where nothing much is expected of them.'' Parents who help cover health insurance, and sometimes rent, unwittingly encourage a few extra years of idealism. 
 The economy during this graduation cycle does not offer much impetus either. The unemployment rate rose to 5.5 percent in May, the largest one-month surge in more than two decades, and remained at that level in June. The National Association of Colleges and Employers predicts an 8 percent increase in hiring of new graduates, but that represents a significant drop from the double-digit increases of the previous four years. 
 If a disproportionate number of stay-behind graduates seem to be artists who work more than one job, live with multiple friends and play a string instrument, it's not necessarily a coincidence. College towns cultivate creative types. Providence, R.I., (Brown) and Charlottesville (University of Virginia) are known for their visual arts scenes; Iowa City (University of Iowa) and Missoula (University of Montana) have strong literary communities, while Davis (University of California) and Chapel Hill (University of North Carolina) have their aging activists. Cities like Austin, Tex.; Ann Arbor, Mich.; and Fargo, N.D., have developed thriving economies in part because software and research companies gravitate toward places with a large concentration of graduates. 
 College towns have cosmopolitan amenities (lectures, music, ethnic restaurants, libraries) but also an almost surreal degree of cultural cohesion -- ''ideologically inbred'' communities where residents read, watch and vote for the same things, in the view of Bill Bishop, author of ''The Big Sort: Why the Clustering of Like-Minded America Is Tearing Us Apart,'' published in May. 
 Blake Gumprecht, an assistant geography professor at the University of New Hampshire, calls them ''small towns without the small-minded people.'' In ''The American College Town,'' to be published in November, he compares the ''academic archipelago'' to mining or ski towns, where a single institution dominates the character of the entire community. (Providence, then, is ''a city that is merely home to a college.'') 
 ''There are very few other places like this where you can maintain the creativity and idealism you enjoyed in college,'' Mr. Gumprecht says. He calls the college town ''paradise for misfits.'' 
 Graduates seem to find the following five towns difficult to leave.
 DAVIS (pop. 60,964)
 (UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, DAVIS)
 The Davis City Council has declared the town hate- and nuclear-free and a sanctuary for illegal immigrants. Street-lamp shields prevent glare, for better views of the stars, and the city built a $13,000 tunnel under a highway because endangered toads were being run over. 
 ''The place gets you stuck like flypaper, and there are plenty of flies,'' says Rob Roy, a 27-year-old substitute teacher from Sacramento who graduated from U.C. Davis in 2007 with a degree in English. He doubts there's another place where he would feel as ideologically at home. 
 So Mr. Roy still lives near campus, in a 10-foot-by-12-foot room, and rides his bicycle to college house parties. (Drunken riders get B.U.I.'s -- ''biking under the influence'' tickets.) He plays in a band that ''sounds like Tom Waits if he tried to make pop music'' and considers becoming a teacher, politician or writer. 
 ''I guess if I knew there was gold in the hills outside of Davis, I might be more willing to hop out and enter the work force,'' he says. ''But I figure our economy is crumbling; I might as well just stay cool and not worry about it.''
 PROVIDENCE (pop. 175,255)
 (BROWN; RHODE ISLAND SCHOOL OF DESIGN)
 Freshly minted graduates support themselves (and their art projects) with part-time jobs like milling soap, making cheese or working as nannies for professors' children. 
 They share cavernous spaces in converted 19th-century textile mills in working-class neighborhoods rapidly rising in value, often to the dismay of longtime residents. 
 ''Providence used to be a place where graduates left immediately, but now it's gotten to the point where people not affiliated with either university are moving here just to be near a young, creative community,'' says Megan Hall, 26, a public radio reporter who graduated from Brown in 2004 and initially lived in a partially converted potato warehouse, where sacks of potatoes were routinely delivered to the building by forklift. ''A lot of us can experiment with this really simple lifestyle. We're not afraid of being poor.''
 Ms. Hall still thinks about returning home to Portland, Ore. Most of her friends, she says, talk about leaving but never do. Last year, she and a friend made a radio documentary, ''The Break Up Project Performance,'' about the city's incestuous dating pool, which begins with a teary-voiced woman complaining about all the times she runs into her former boyfriend. 
 ''I go to get my morning coffee, and you're there,'' the woman says, sighing. ''I see you in line at the grocery store, at the post office, bookstore, the record shop, on the opposite side of the street. Your friends, your flyers, your stupid [expletive] band. It's all here, and everywhere, and it feels like I'm suffocating.''
 ATHENS (pop. 111,580)
 (UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA)
 The success of former Athens bands like R.E.M., the B-52's, Pylon and Neutral Milk Hotel has buoyed the dreams of a contingent of U.Ga. graduates who perform in one another's living rooms and basements.
 Mercer West, a 2004 graduate from suburban Atlanta, calls Athens a ''creative neverland'' and says most of his friends hung around so they could live cheaply and keep their bands together. Mr. West plays in five and has turned the bottom floor of his home, a converted warehouse, into a performance space and screen-printing shop, run by three other U.Ga. graduates. He describes Athens as a ''little bohemian enclave where the line between college and the rest of your life becomes blurred.'' 
 ''I'm not one of those people who's always talking about leaving,'' says Mr. West, 26. ''I realize there's this whole stigma around the word 'townie,' even as I quickly turn into one.'' 
 Athens is a difficult place to start a career; options are generally limited to waiting tables, teaching or working for the university. Mr. West says many of his friends ''know they can fall back on their parents if anything bad happens.''
 David Specht, 26, who rents Mr. West's top floor, graduated from U.Ga. in 2003 with a degree in West African cinema and literature (''That's pretty much saying: no jobs ever''). He managed an art-moving company in Brooklyn before moving back to Athens. Now a woodworker, he is learning to play the violin. In Brooklyn, he didn't feel the same ''creative electrical sparks.''
 FARGO (pop. 90,056)
 (NORTH DAKOTA STATE UNIVERSITY)
 Over the last five years, the number of people employed here has grown by 13 percent, more than twice the national rate; 31 percent of the class of 2006 stayed in Fargo, where temperatures drop to 40 below. Many graduates are enticed by high-paying jobs at biotech and software companies, including a huge division of Microsoft.
 ''We're in a golden era,'' says Erin Ahneman, a St. Paul native who graduated from North Dakota State in 2001. ''The university and the companies that employ its graduates are growing together.'' When her husband, also a graduate, got a job in Fargo, she was reluctant to commit to her college town. Its hick-town reputation lingers (thanks, Coen brothers). The local newspaper reported on a graduation speaker at a Virgin-ia high school who called Fargo ''the physical and spiritual symbol of what happens to you when you die inside.'' 
 ''Talk about someone basically spitting on your life,'' says Mrs. Ahneman, 29, a sales representative at Microsoft. She likes the area so much now that ''unless something very crazy happens, we'll be here for the rest of our lives.'' 
 The city has redeveloped its low-slung downtown, which is intersected by two Interstates and dotted with parking lots. Recent years have seen the construction of previously unheard-of amenities like sake bars, art galleries and a ''bar mall'' of theme saloons for barhopping without stepping outside.
 CHAPEL HILL (pop. 49,919)
 (UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA)
 Graduates make money, get married and develop a taste for designer bedding and organic food. Diners begin charging $8 for a plate of eggs. House prices rise. The compact, leafy town that grew around U.N.C. has become one of the most expensive places to live in the state. Most of the university staff commutes.
 ''Sometimes we're cursed by our own success,'' says Mark Chilton, a 1993 graduate who stayed behind and is now mayor of Carrboro, about a mile from U.N.C. Living in a college town has gained ''a new level of social acceptability,'' he says. 
 ''If you look at old graduation speeches, you find evidence of the traditional mentality that if you want to make it big, you have to go off and find work in the big city and move to the top of the ladder,'' he adds. ''My generation may be known for its slackers, but we've stopped accepting that as the correct definition of success.''
 Tom Jensen, a 24-year-old Michigan native who graduated in 2006, wanted to live in Chapel Hill so badly that he commutes three hours a day to Raleigh for his job at a polling company. He pays $875 for a one-bedroom apartment and doesn't consider Chapel Hill too upscale. ''Anyone who's been here longer than five years is locked into this idealized notion of what the town used to be,'' he says, ''and that's probably just whatever it was like when they were seniors in college. Obviously, that's when it was really perfect.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Come commencement, many linger for months or become townies for life. Megan Hall, a 2004 Brown graduate from Oregon, stayed on in Providence, R.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEW MILNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.22)
Rob Roy, a 2007 Davis graduate, lives in one room and rides his bike to college house parties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED MERTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
It's easy to find art venues, like Gallery 17 Peck, in Providence. It's also too easy to run into an old boyfriend or girlfriend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEW MILNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mercer West, a 2004 graduate, has turned part of his Athens home into a performance space. Mr. West plays in five bands. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.23)
The restored Fargo Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Franklin Street is a social hub for students and stay-behinds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA D. DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FAMILY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (71%); MARRIAGE (65%); VISUAL ARTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%); FARGO, ND, USA (65%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



660 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; PHENOMENON; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Ice Free

BYLINE: By STEPHAN FARIS. 
Stephan Faris is author of ''Forecast: The Consequences of Climate Change, From the Amazon to the Artic, From Darfur to Napa Valley'', to be published inJanuary.

 BODY:
Greenland's ice sheet represents one of global warming's most disturbing threats. The vast expanses of glaciers -- massed, on average, 1.6 miles deep -- contain enough water to raise sea levels worldwide by 23 feet. Should they melt or otherwise slip into the ocean, they would flood coastal capitals, submerge tropical islands and generally redraw the world's atlases. The infusion of fresh water could slow or shut down the ocean's currents, plunging Europe into bitter winter.
 Yet for the residents of the frozen island, the early stages of climate change promise more good, in at least one important sense, than bad. A Danish protectorate since 1721, Greenland has long sought to cut its ties with its colonizer. But while proponents of complete independence face little opposition at home or in Copenhagen, they haven't been able to overcome one crucial calculation: the country depends on Danish assistance for more than 40 percent of its gross domestic product. ''The independence wish has always been there,'' says Aleqa Hammond, Greenland's minister for finance and foreign affairs. ''The reason we have never realized it is because of the economics.'' 
 Climate change has the power to unsettle boundaries and shake up geopolitics, usually for the worse. In June, the tiny South Pacific nation of Kiribati announced that rising sea levels were making its lands uninhabitable and asked for help in evacuating its population. Bangladesh, low-lying, crowded and desperately impoverished, is watching the waves as well; a one-yard rise would flood a seventh of its territory. But while most of the world sees only peril in the island's meltwater, Greenland's independence movement has explicitly tied its fortunes to the warming of the globe.
 The island's ice cover has already begun to disappear. ''Changes in the ocean eat the ice sheet from underneath,'' says Sarah Das, a glaciologist at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts. ''Warmer water causes the glaciers to calve and melt back more quickly.'' Hunters who use the frozen surface of the winter ocean for hunting and travel have found themselves idle when the ice fails to form. The whales, seals and birds they hunt have begun to shift their migratory patterns. ''The traditional culture will be hard hit,'' says Jesper Madsen, director of the department of Arctic environment at the University of Aarhus in Denmark. ''But from an overall perspective, it will have a positive effect.'' Greenland's fishermen are applauding the return of warm-water cod. Shops in the island's capital have suddenly begun to offer locally produced potatoes and broccoli -- crops unimaginable a few years earlier. 
 But the real promise lies in what may be found under the ice. Near the town of Uummannaq, about halfway up Greenland's coast, retreating glaciers have uncovered pockets of lead and zinc. Gold and diamond prospectors have flooded the island's south. Alcoa is preparing to build a large aluminum smelter. The island's minerals are becoming more accessible even as global commodity prices are soaring. And with more than 80 percent of the land currently iced over, the hope is that the island has just begun to reveal its riches.
 Offshore, where the Arctic Ocean is rapidly thawing, expectations are even higher. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that Greenland's northeastern waters could contain 31 billion barrels of undiscovered oil and gas. On the other side of the island, the waters separating it from Canada could yield billions of barrels more. And while Greenland is still considered an oil exploration frontier, Exxon Mobil, Chevron, Canada's Husky Energy and Cairn Energy and Sweden's PA Resources are aleady ramping up exploration.
 In November, Greenlanders will vote on a referendum that would leverage global warming into a path to independence. The island's 56,000 predominantly Inuit residents have enjoyed limited home rule since 1978. The proposed plan for self-rule, drafted in partnership with Copenhagen, is expected to pass overwhelmingly. It would grant the first $16 million of oil and mineral income to the local government, with further revenues split equally until Denmark's share reaches roughly the $680 million a year Greenlanders currently receive from the Danes. Then there would be no further obstacles to sovereignty. ''When we reach the point where we no longer need the subsidy, we'll be able to say we're economically independent,'' Hammond says. ''There will be nothing that ties us anymore.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAMILLE SEAMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); OCEANS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) GREENLAND (96%); DENMARK (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KIRIBATI (79%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



661 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: All for One

BYLINE: By MOINA NOOR

 BODY:
EVERY weekday at noon, Dawn Rogers waits for a call from her husband, Rob, to learn if she will need to pick him up from work or if he will get a ride from a co-worker. Half of the time, she ends up packing their 2- and 4-year-old daughters into the family sedan and driving 15 minutes from their home in Fairfield, Conn., to Westport, where Mr. Rogers teaches computers and psychology at Staples High School. 
 It wasn't always this way. Until recently, the Rogerses were a typical two-car suburban family, but last year they decided to give up the lease on their second car. They also sold their four-bedroom colonial-style house and downsized to a two-bedroom condo. 
 ''We didn't want to pay for another car,'' Ms. Rogers said. ''We had a light-bulb moment. We thought, why are we living with all this financial stress? We became committed to making one car work for us.'' 
 Motivated by the declining economy, rising gas prices and a concern for the environment, families like the Rogerses say they are starting to rethink the need to have more than one car.
 Make no mistake, however: America's love affair with the automobile is still strong. According to a February study by Experian Automotive, which specializes in collecting and analyzing automotive data, Americans own an average of 2.28 vehicles per household, and more than 35 percent of households own three or more cars. 
 But there are signs of change. Brian Gluckman, a spokesman for AutoTrader.com, a leading automotive Web site, said more buyers were moving to one car. 
 Until the last three months, Mr. Gluckman said, that car tended to be a midsize S.U.V. or crossovers. He said AutoTrader.com's more recent data showed buyers shifting toward smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.
 Robert Sinclair Jr., a spokesman for the New York regional chapter of AAA, agrees that ''we are witnessing a major sea change in both the types and number of vehicles on the road.'' 
 The Rogerses' decision to go to one car has been financially liberating -- it costs on average $8,100 a year to own a second car, according to AAA. But the switch has not been without complications. 
 Rob Rogers car-pools to work every morning, while Dawn Rogers drives the children to preschool, but there is the daily wild card of whether Mr. Rogers will get a ride home. The evenings result in another round of juggling. Ms. Rogers, a multimedia artist who works out of their home, teaches gymnastics at the Darien Y.M.C.A. three evenings a week. Mr. Rogers also works some nights and weekends providing technical support for a local library.
 ''Communication and planning ahead are key,'' Ms. Rogers said. ''Neither of us can get to our evening jobs without the car. We sometimes have to skip evening activities with the kids. How many times can you ask a friend to pick you up?''
 Ms. Rogers acknowledged that they might have to buy another car eventually. ''Things might become more complicated as the girls get older,'' she said. 
 Penelope and Sean Sheely of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., say they have always restricted themselves to one car because of concern for the environment and a desire for a simple lifestyle. It helps that Mr. Sheely, a lawyer who commutes to New York City, can walk the mile to the train, but it is not always simple, as they have four children, ranging from 6 to 11.
 The Sheelys use their car primarily for weekend trips. ''We don't want to have the kids go off in different directions,'' said Ms. Sheely, a pediatrician.
 David and Sandy Willis decided to sell their two cars when they moved from Toronto to Westport, Conn. Then they bought one replacement, an S.U.V. They said they put off buying a second car because of the inconvenience of switching from Canadian insurance. Months passed, and they found they didn't really need the extra car.
 The Willises say they manage easily with one car during the week because Mr. Willis, an executive at a technology company, telecommutes, travels out of town or commutes into New York City on the Metro-North Railroad. On his New York workdays, a commuter shuttle stops outside their house and drops him at the train station, a couple of miles away.
 ''Our choice to downsize to one car is not so much of an economic thing,'' said Ms. Willis, a stay-at-home mom who heads an environmental committee at her daughter's school. ''We just want to live a simpler and greener lifestyle. We're learning not to take our car for granted like it's our birthright.''
 The Willises often have to head in different directions on Saturday mornings. Their son, Matthew, 12, plays hockey on weekends in Stamford, about 15 miles away, and his sister, Sydney, 8, is a budding figure skater who takes lessons in Darien and Stamford.
 ''We bike, car-pool, walk or take a cab if we don't have access to the car,'' Ms. Willis said. In a pinch, she relies on her brother who lives nearby, and they rent a car a couple of times a year. 
 Peter and Ayumi Manda have stayed in New Brunswick, N.J., instead of moving, in part because it made it convenient to have only one car. Mr. Manda works as a translator and is a graduate student at Rutgers University, a short walk from home. Ms. Manda walks the eight minutes to the New Jersey Transit train she takes to Princeton, where she works as an accounting assistant.
 ''Before gas prices started going up, I would have thought about buying another car,'' Mr. Manda said. ''But now I wouldn't think of it.''
 Yasmeen Pattie, who lives in Port Washington, N.Y., has her own reasons for being a one-car family, describing herself and many of her friends as ''urban souls in suburban moms' bodies.''
 ''I loved living in cities and just hate the thought of having to get in the car to do everything,'' said Ms. Pattie, an urban planner who lived in San Francisco for several years before returning home to Long Island with her husband, Chris. Ms. Pattie takes the train into Manhattan three days a week.
 Their primary criterion when buying a house three years ago was that it had to be walking distance from the center of town and near a train station. 
 ''For me, having an extra car would be like having more than one TV,'' Ms. Pattie said. ''If I had more, I would use more.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FAMILY VEHICLES: Among the families relying on one car are Dawn and Rob Rogers, above, of Fairfield, Conn., and their daughters, Eloise, 2, and Beatrice, 4
and Yasmeen and Chris Pattie, right, of Port Washington, N.Y., with their son, Zayd, 2. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); SEDANS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); MARKET INCIDENCE (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (52%)

COMPANY: AUTOTRADER.COM INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (53%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



662 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Look Out, Citation

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

 BODY:
Cigar could not do it. Neither could Citation. No horse in modern times has won 17 straight races, but now the record appears ready to fall, taken down by an unlikely source.
 Peppers Pride, a New Mexico-bred 5-year-old who has never left her native state, is far from the best thoroughbred around today, but a combination of her consistency and durability and her connections' cautious nature has put her on the verge of racing history. She is expected to be heavily favored to win her 17th in a row, on Sunday in the $55,000 Lincoln Handicap at Ruidoso Downs in New Mexico.
 The Triple Crown winner Citation established the recognized record for consecutive victories with 16 from 1948 to 1950. It was assumed that the first horse to reach 17 straight would be another Citation, a superior animal who routinely bossed around stakes competition. Cigar seemed ready to fit that bill, but his winning streak was stopped at 16 when he was beaten in the 1996 Pacific Classic at Del Mar. 
 Mister Frisky and Hallowed Dreams also flirted with the record in recent times but were defeated when vying for No. 17. For Peppers Pride, that does not figure to be a problem. She has never lost and routinely beats up on the same group of overmatched New Mexico-breds she will face Sunday. 
 There has been nothing adventurous or daring about her campaign, but it has paid off. Taking advantage of purses fattened by profits from slot machines at the New Mexico racetracks, she has earned $861,665.
 ''It's real hard for us to leave New Mexico because of the purse structure here,'' said her owner and breeder, Joe Allen, who owns a barbecue restaurant in Abilene, Tex. ''I know that's hard for a lot of people to understand. I'm not a wealthy man by any means. I can't afford to do the things that some people can. It would be asinine for us to pay $5,000 or $6,000 to ship somewhere to run. I have to look at it from the economic side.''
 Allen said that he planned to run Peppers Pride five more times this year, all in races for New Mexico-breds, before she is retired and bred. That would mean she would never be asked to face off against the top-class fillies and mares who compete at places like Saratoga and Del Mar.
 ''If we ever tried something like that, all I can tell you is that she would run the best possible race she could run,'' Joel Marr, her trainer, said. ''She would give 110 percent. Everybody has their own opinions about what would happen. I think she'd run well. I know other people disagree. It's not something that concerns me.''
 Marr and Allen are quick to point out that they understand Peppers Pride does not belong in the same class as Cigar and Citation, but they also say it would be unfair to dismiss what she has done. 
 ''It would be a record, but you can't compare what she's done to Cigar or Citation,'' said Michael Paulson, whose father, Allen, owned Cigar. ''They won top-class races and received worldwide acclaim. 
 ''But should they get the record, they should be very proud of it. It's very significant for any horse to win 16 or 17 in a row. I wish them well and hope they appreciate the accomplishment.''
 By an unraced stallion named Desert God out of the mare Lady Pepper, Peppers Pride was put up for sale before her debut by Allen, who let local owners know that she could be had for $12,500. After no one would meet his asking price, he placed her in a 2-year-old race at Ruidoso in 2005, which she won by four and a half lengths. 
 Peppers Pride has since crisscrossed the state, also racing at Zia Park, Sunland Park and SunRay Park.
 At the least, she has proved that she has an innate determination to win. In her closest call, a 2006 race at Zia Park, she was passed by another horse near the top of the stretch and appeared beaten, only to battle back and win by a nose.
 ''Whatever it is, she has it,'' Marr said. ''There are some nice horses around here. She's just always able to find the wire.''
 Some, though, do not seem impressed. Allen said that he had been told a number of times that if she set a record, she would deserve to have an asterisk next to her name. Marr came across a thread in a racing blog that was initiated by the Peppers Pride Haters Club.
 ''There are people out there who don't know what it takes or how hard it is to win all these races in a row,'' Marr said. ''I'm not going to let them bother me. I don't care who you're running against, it's not easy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peppers Pride, right, a 5-year-old, will be seeking a record victory on Sunday at Ruidoso Downs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS IAN COSHENET/THE DAILY TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (78%); HORSE RACING (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



663 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Too Big to Fail, or to Survive

BYLINE: By WILLIAM POOLE. 
William Poole, a fellow at the Cato Institute, was the chief executive of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis from 1998 to 2008.

 BODY:
CRITICS of the Congressional housing package complain that we are now committing taxpayers to huge new outlays to rescue Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. That view is wrong: Congressional inaction over the past 15 years had already committed taxpayers to the bailout.
 Congress could and should have required Fannie and Freddie -- which enjoy a peculiar and highly advantageous status as quasi-public agencies and quasi-private companies -- to maintain more capital, but didn't. Now the costs from Congressional inaction are becoming painfully apparent, and they cannot be avoided. To permit the two mortgage giants to default would set off a worldwide crisis. But we can decide what should become of Freddie and Fannie after this crisis. The best option is one getting little mention in Washington: get rid of them. 
 Because the government cannot permit Fannie and Freddie to default, their obligations are part and parcel of the full-faith-and-credit obligations of the United States. Thus, the national debt, usually viewed as the $5 trillion held by the public, is really $10 trillion once we add the Fannie and Freddie obligations and the mortgage-backed securities they guarantee. 
 For now, the Congressional Budget Office has entered a ''place holder'' of $25 billion to cover the bailout costs over the next two years but recognizes that this is a guess. The important issue is not the 2009 outlay, but the total that will be required eventually. Even if the two firms are technically insolvent, the market will continue to buy their obligations readily, for it understands that they are fully backed by the government. 
 Given this faith on the part of the marketplace, there will be no immediate catastrophe that would force the federal government to provide additional capital to Fannie and Freddie. The situation is similar to the one in the 1980s, when many savings and loans were technically insolvent yet had no difficulty attracting deposits, as they were covered by federal deposit insurance. So the federal government has the option of delaying any ultimate resolution of the Fannie-Freddie mess, as it did with the savings and loans 20 years ago, in hopes that the two giants can dig themselves out of the hole. Still, it seems more likely that -- again, just as in the 1980s -- the longer we delay, the higher the eventual taxpayer cost will be. 
 Freddie Mac, according to its own fair-value accounts for the end of March, is technically insolvent -- the estimated market value of its liabilities is greater than the estimated market value of its assets. Fannie Mae has a small positive net worth. In coming quarters, these figures may deteriorate because of accounting adjustments (some of the assets are questionable) and continuing defaults on mortgages. The eventual losses could run to several hundred billion dollars. 
 Whatever the amount of the bailout, even if ''only'' $25 billion, the real question is not immediate survival of the loan giants but their long-term future. Instead of being regarded as too big to fail, we should look at them as too big to liquidate quickly. 
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not essential to the mortgage market; if they were put out of business in an orderly fashion over 5 to 10 years, the market would pick up the business they abandon. Fannie and Freddie exist to provide guarantees for mortgage-backed securities trading in the market. The business is simply insurance. 
 There are lots of insurance businesses around: property, auto, life and many others. These markets work fine without any government-sponsored enterprises. They are not highly concentrated into a small number of dominant players whose failure would threaten the entire economy; rather, lots of companies compete and spread the risk. Indeed, there are well-established firms in mortgage insurance, but their growth has been stunted by the special advantages Fannie and Freddie enjoy.
 In fact, there has already been a test case for how the mortgage market would function without Fannie and Freddie. After an accounting scandal in 2005, regulators severely constrained their activities. The nation's total residential mortgage debt outstanding rose by $1.176 trillion in that year, even though Fannie's and Freddie's stakes rose by only $169 billion, just 14.4 percent of the total. In essence, the market barely noticed that the two agencies' private competitors were providing 85 percent of the increase in mortgage debt in 2005. 
 There are more general economic reasons for liquidating Fannie and Freddie, the biggest being that it is very dangerous to maintain such a large role in any market for only two operators. Markets work best when numerous firms compete against each other. 
 And then there is moral hazard. Knowing they had a federal backstop, Fannie and Freddie held too little capital and the market financed their activities at interest rates very close to those enjoyed by the government. Now we are living through the result. Does it make sense to reconstitute them so that they can engage in a repeat performance?
 Some believe that tighter regulation is the answer. I am skeptical of that because I know the extent to which the regulatory system is tied up in Fannie's and Freddie's political activities. I find it deeply troubling that Fannie and Freddie, essentially in receivership to the secretary of the Treasury today, continue to employ lobbyists and hand out campaign contributions to influence the legislative debate over their own futures. Fannie and Freddie paid out more than $170 million to lobbyists over the last decade -- more than General Electric spent. Government departments cannot hire lobbyists or give money to campaigns -- why should Fannie and Freddie, now wards of the government, be permitted to do so? 
 The long-term health of the mortgage market is too important to be left to only two firms. If Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can survive as vigorous competitors without the special government privileges they've long enjoyed, fine. But if they insist on coming back to life as public-private hybrids with all sorts of unfair federal advantages, we'll only be setting ourselves up for more disasters. The wisest move, in the end, is to carefully let them wither away. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



664 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS TO THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Other Voices: When a Dirty Word Makes News

 BODY:
Re ''When to Quote Those Potty Mouths'' (July 13):
 The discussion of forbidden language in The New York Times was welcome, but you reached much too mild a conclusion. The Times censors not only the usual dirty words, but also (inconsistently) epithets and slurs regarding race, religion, ethnicity, nationality and sexuality.
 If a quotation is newsworthy, the actual language used should be quoted. Readers are entitled to evaluate for themselves whether a word is ''crude'' or a mild colloquialism, and to decide its significance. 
 In the case of epithets and slurs, readers need the exact language to decide for themselves if a remark was likely to have been malicious, innocuous, ironic or whatever. 
 You conclude by coming to the defense of the children, always the last refuge of the would-be censor. 
 Surely if students can handle the war, starvation and pestilence -- the daily subject matter of The Times -- they can handle a few words that somebody somewhere thinks are naughty.
 HASKEL LEVI
 Oakland, Calif., July 16, 2008
 Thank you for telling us what the Rev. Jesse Jackson actually said he would like to do to Barack Obama. Given the media fuss, some of us may have assumed it was far worse.
 Readers of The Times appreciate the standard set for the prose in the paper. But language should present facts accurately. 
 Mr. Jackson's choice of words revealed a great deal about his current situation and his state of mind. They were his choice, his responsibility, not the reporter's or the newspaper's.
 Reporting only that the remark was vulgar or substituting a euphemism deprives us of the opportunity to make our own assessment of the situation. 
 Put the remark in quotation marks, attribute it to the speaker in context, and keep your own prose at its usual high standard. CYNTHIA MITCHELL
 Champaign, Ill., July 14, 2008
 Oh, pooh! And tsk, tsk! You've missed the point. 
 High school students are the pottiest-mouthed group around. They're the prime audience for all the R-rated comedies featuring the final acts of digestion. (See The Times's review of ''Meet Dave.'') 
 From its inception, Rolling Stone quoted rock stars verbatim and no one was any the worse for it. Why should it be any different when you quote political figures? Good grief!
 HUGH ABRAMSON
 New York, July 13, 2008
 I, too, constantly grapple with this dilemma. As an author and critic of books in Spanish for young readers, I know I have to address the issue of profanity or vulgar expressions in books for Spanish-speaking adolescents.
 Yes, on the one hand, I can't be so out of touch that I ignore young people's everyday expressions. 
 On the other hand, particularly in the United States, teachers and librarians expect a much more civil discourse -- or is it sanitized language?
 I am delighted to know you are as unclear as many of us are. I have noticed, however, that more than once The Times has printed the word ''cojones.'' Touche! Ole! ISABEL SCHON
 San Diego, Calif., July 15, 2008
 To Name or Not to Name?
 Re ''Weighing the Risk'' (July 6):
 I was engrossed in the June 22 article about the interrogator of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, but my interest turned to dismay when I encountered the interrogator's name and pedigree, albeit with a nickname. 
 Both you and Bob Steele of the Poynter Institute have stressed that the inclusion of the identity of the interrogator was vital to the integrity of the story, as it added veracity to The Times's reporting.
 I disagree. I believe that the inclusion of Deuce Martinez's identity was a result of The Times's continuing zeal to overcome the stigma of the Jayson Blair affair and Judith Miller's reporting on Iraq. While these disturbing incidents may give readers pause when evaluating a story, as a lifelong reader of The Times, I would have taken the story as accurate without the mention of Mr. Martinez by name. 
 The story's facts were not enhanced one iota by naming the interrogator. It was more than enough to give his background and to show how he had succeeded where the ''knuckle draggers'' had failed. JOHN A. O'BRIEN
 Astoria, Queens, July 6, 2008
 I was disappointed in your discussion of The Times's use of a C.I.A. interrogator's name after being asked by him and by the C.I.A. not to disclose it for fear of jeopardizing his safety.
 Almost daily, The Times publishes articles citing anonymous sources. It is accustomed to withholding identities, even when their disclosure would, or at least might, help readers evaluate the reporting.
 Your discussion proceeds as though The Times had been asked to kill the story. But it was asked only to omit the interrogator's name. 
 Still, you argue that you fear that news organizations would be ''hobbled when trying to tell the public about some of the government's most important and controversial actions.'' 
 But this situation presented no such risk, nor any basis for thinking that the C.I.A.'s request had any self-serving or other ulterior motive. The name added nothing to the story except risk to the interrogator. MYLES V. WHALEN JR.
 Amagansett, N.Y., July 7, 2008
 It is easy to be noble about divulging the name of Deuce Martinez when there is no danger to you personally. That is not good journalism, it is arrogance. I am quite sure that if their roles were reversed, the reporter would still be squealing. JOE JOHNSON
 New Smyrna Beach, Fla., July 7, 2007
 The writer is a retired Army sergeant major.
 Take the Long View
 Re ''Spreading Information, Not Panic'' (July 20): 
 I have lived and worked through all of the recessions of the past 30 years or so. If there is a common thread in the news media, it's the inflation of opinion into fact -- or at least that's the way the markets perceive it. 
 Reporters quote six or seven ''authorities,'' and the Dow often moves accordingly. The worst is yet to come, some say, while others say we've seen the bottom. No one is quoted as saying it's really difficult to tell where we are, and we need patience and a longer view.
 It would be exceedingly helpful if, on a daily basis, the business pages interviewed money managers with no less than 30 years' experience. Their perspective would provide a comforting counterpoint to the 45-word bites reporters need to flesh out their articles.
 In a period of financial uncertainty, I want The Times to help me take the measure of a problem, rather than be part of the problem. DICK ALTMAN
 Santa Fe, N.M., July 20, 2008
 More letters to the public editor are posted at nytimes.com/publiceditorsjournal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); WRITERS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); LITERARY CRITICISM (60%); POP & ROCK (60%); LIBRARIANS (60%); RELIGION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%); JESSE JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



665 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; RECREATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Bicyclists Contend That State Slights Them

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 ALMOST hidden in the fine print on the state's official map of its best and most scenic bicycling routes is this warning:
 ''Connecticut's roads were not designed for bicycle touring, and it is important to note that any inclusion of a route on this map does not certify it to be a safe bicycling route. Use of these routes is at your own risk.''
 Cycling advocates say that sums up the State Department of Transportation's longstanding attitude toward biking and helps explain why Connecticut lags behind other states in making roads safe and convenient for cyclists. 
 Connecticut has 17 miles of authorized, signed bicycle routes along state roads, according to the Transportation Department. In contrast, New York has about 2,200 miles of designated bike routes. Pennsylvania, with 1,601 miles, and North Carolina, with 2,444 miles, according to officials and transportation agency Web sites in those states, have been cited by the Washington-based League of American Bicyclists as having two of the most extensive and best marked state cycling road routes in the East.
 There have been some recent improvements at the Transportation Department, but biking advocates say Connecticut needs to move much faster at a time when soaring gasoline prices are leading more people to ride bikes.
 Among other things, bicycle advocacy groups seek wider shoulders on state roads, better bridge access, more signed routes and safety warnings to encourage motorists to ''share the roads.''
 Transportation officials say they are trying to do more despite tight budgets. ''No one here is anti-bike,'' said Kevin Nursick, a department spokesman.
 But the Governor's Commission on the Reform of the Connecticut Department of Transportation, created in 2007 as a response to scandals at the department, harshly criticized the agency's efforts. The panel reported in January that ''no single issue generated as many comments as the need for enhanced bicycle and pedestrian services.''
 ''Today, pedestrian, bicycle, ride-sharing and van-pooling solutions are given relatively low priority, and are treated as if they are marginal opportunities not worth high-level attention,'' the panel said.
 Andy Clarke, president of the League of American Bicyclists, said the report came as no surprise. ''We've been hearing for a long time that Connecticut is definitely behind the curve on this stuff,'' he said.
 Local cycling advocates acknowledge that some progress is being made. ''But we're not even close to where we need to be,'' said Deb Dauphinais, a member of the Central Connecticut Bicycle Alliance and co-owner of Bicycles East, a Glastonbury store.
 Legislation approved this year requires motorists to give bicyclists at least three feet of space while passing them, and orders creation of a new state ''Share the Road'' campaign.
 Charles S. Barone, chief of the Transportation Department's bureau of policy and planning and a 31-year veteran of the department, said, ''I think we're always striving to provide more for pedestrians and cyclists.''
 Mr. Nursick said recent pedestrian-bicycle projects have included building better access to some highway bridges, requiring bike racks on Connecticut Transit buses, and support for rail-to-trail biking paths.
 In January, transportation officials gave the go-ahead for a $311,000 project to update the state's bicycling map and its bicycle-pedestrian plan. The map's last revision was in 2002.
 Connecticut's recent track record on promoting bicycling does not impress Mr. Clarke.
 ''Most states have been doing those kinds of things for a while now,'' he said.
 North Carolina has for years designated multiple cross-state biking routes. Cyclists in New York can pedal along state-signed routes from Lake Erie to the Hudson River Valley or ride from New York City to the Canadian border, according to the state's bicycle route maps.
 ''We should be working toward that,'' Mr. Barone acknowledged. But he warned that the state could face ''liability issues'' if it authorized biking routes on state roads without adequate shoulders or bicycle lanes.
 ''Most Connecticut roads evolved over the years,'' he said. ''They were not constructed or designed with bicycles in mind.''
 Connecticut bicycle shop managers and owners say their business has been increasing as gas prices have gone up.
 ''More people are getting bikes to use for transportation,'' said Jason Graham, manager of Westport Bicycles. ''Especially for to and from the train stations.''
 David Arnold, owner of Newington Bicycle, said an ''unprecedented number'' of people are coming into his shop to get bicycle tuneups.
 ''Some of these are bikes that haven't seen the light of day for 20 years,'' he said. ''I think we're probably one of the few businesses that are seeing an upswing in a down economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TWO-WHEELERS: Frank Saphire, top left, and Don Rauccio, both of Wilton, on the Black Rock Turnpike in Fairfield. Deb Dauphinais is a member of the Central Connecticut Bicycle Alliance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); LEGISLATION (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (51%); GASOLINE PRICES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF AMERICAN BICYCLISTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



666 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Branded

BYLINE: By FARHAD MANJOO. 
Farhad Manjoo, a technology columnist at Slate, is the author of ''True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.''

 BODY:
BUYING IN 
 The Secret Dialogue Between What We Buy and Who We Are. 
 By Rob Walker. 
 291 pp. Random House. $25. 
 Late in 2006, pollsters at the Pew Research Center called up 2,000 Americans and asked a simple question: Which products could people simply not live without? Take the dishwasher, for instance -- was it a luxury or an ineluctable necessity of modern life? And did they believe they needed, rather than merely wanted, a clothes washer and dryer? How about a home computer, a microwave oven, high-speed Internet service and air-conditioning? Yes, yes, yes and yes, the nation nodded in assent. In just about every product category, Americans' self-professed needs had ballooned since the hand-to-mouth 1990s. Not long ago, we thought of the cellphone as a high-class extravagance; nowadays, we feel naked without it. 
 That we are, as a nation, consumed by consumerism will surprise few. But as the journalist Rob Walker points out in ''Buying In: The Secret Dialogue Between What We Buy and Who We Are,'' few of us will admit that we frequently succumb to salesmanship, and that marketing produces in us needs we never knew we had. Advertisers play along, assuring us that we're tough to persuade; the trade press laments the birth of a ''new consumer,'' shoppers hopped up on YouTube and TiVo who are said to have developed a strange ''immunity'' to advertising. ''I'm not much of a consumer,'' knowing youngsters confess to Walker -- just before they launch into arias on the transcendent qualities of their favorite MP3 players or preferred brands of beer.
 Few observers have plumbed the subterranean poetry of marketing as thoroughly as Walker, who writes Consumed, a weekly shopping-culture column in The New York Times Magazine. In ''Buying In,'' Walker aims to lift the cloud of self-delusion that obscures our buying habits. Every indicator suggests we're the shoppingest society that's ever lived; every day, we purchase more stuff, produce more trash, descend deeper into debt and feel the press of commercial desire grow ever more intense. Walker, mining research from psychology and economics to explain the unlikely rise of several brands, argues that our susceptibility to marketing arises from our ignorance of its pervasiveness. Indeed, in recent years the ad industry has adopted an underground method of selling that depends on our complicit embrace of brands. Walker calls it ''murketing,'' and once you understand it, you notice its footprint everywhere.
 Consider Pabst Blue Ribbon. Beginning in the 1970s, the cheap beer that had long been synonymous with the blue-collar heartland began a steep decline, with sales by 2001 dipping to fewer than a million barrels a year, 90 percent below the beer's peak. But in 2002, Pabst noticed a sudden sales spike, driven by an unlikely demographic: countercultural types -- bike messengers, skaters and their tattooed kin -- in hipster redoubts like Portland, Ore., had taken to swilling the stuff. When asked why, they would praise Pabst for its non-image, for the fact that it seemed to care little about selling. 
 Traditionally, a company that spots a sudden market opportunity responds by gearing ads toward the new customers. But Neal Stewart, Pabst's marketing whiz, had studied ''No Logo,'' Naomi Klein's anti-corporate manifesto, and he understood that overt commercial messages would turn off an audience suspicious of capitalism. Thus the company shunned celebrity endorsements -- Kid Rock had been interested -- and devoted its budget instead to murketing, sponsoring a series of unlikely gatherings across the country. Like ''some kind of small-scale National Endowment for the Arts for young American outsider culture,'' Pabst paid the bills at bike messenger contests, skateboarder movie screenings, and art and indie publishing get-togethers. At each of these events, it kept its logo obscure, its corporate goal to ''always look and act the underdog,'' to be seen as a beer of ''social protest,'' a ''fellow dissenter'' against mainstream mores. 
 Pabst's campaign was designed to push beer without appearing to push it. To the extent that it conveyed any branding message at all, it was, Hey, we don't care if you drink the stuff. To people sick of beer companies that did look as if they cared -- don't Super Bowl ads smack of desperation? -- Pabst's attitude seemed refreshing and inspired deep passion in its fans. Many customers did more than just buy the beer. Walker speaks to one who tattooed a foot-square Pabst logo on his back. Pabst's low-fi marketing is ''not insulting you,'' the fellow tells Walker. 
 It's not just downscale beer companies that have taken to murketing. To popularize its youth-focused Scion brand, Toyota held parties for editors of indie magazines with names like Art Prostitute. Red Bull is thought to have spent hundreds of millions of dollars on ''stealth'' events, financing competitions for, among other things, kiteboarding, video gaming and break-dancing. And then there's the word-of-mouth industry -- advertising firms that recruit an army of ''agents'' to sing the gospel of products to their unsuspecting friends.
 Walker doesn't always pin down how much these marketing efforts contribute to the coffers of the companies that employ them. What he makes clear, however, is how thoroughly such campaigns invade the culture, especially youth culture. Members of a hyper-aware generation often hailed for their imperviousness to marketing are actually turning to brands to define themselves. Want to protest a ''corporate'' beer? Well, get a Pabst tattoo!
 In reality, Pabst Blue Ribbon's anticapitalist ethos is, as Walker puts it, ''a sham.'' The company long ago closed its Milwaukee brewery and now outsources its operations to Miller. Its entire corporate staff is devoted to marketing and sales, not brewing. ''You really couldn't do much worse in picking a symbol of resistance to phony branding,'' Walker writes. But P.B.R.'s fans don't care. In the new era of murketing, image is everything.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOILLUSTRATION BY JI LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); CHILDREN (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); WRITERS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); BEER & ALE (70%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (64%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (63%); POETRY (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); MINES & MINING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Buying In (Book)>; Buying In (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



667 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER TRAVEL AGENTS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: New Role for Travel Sites: Matchmaker

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
NOT long ago, the advent of online travel -- allowing travelers to research and book their trips with a few clicks of a mouse -- was thought to be a death knell for traditional travel agents. But faced with the increasing cost and unpredictability of travel today, vacationers seem to be returning to the fold. 
 Twenty-three percent of online leisure travelers in the United States say they would use a good off-line agent if they could find one, according to Forrester Research. And spotting an opportunity, a handful of new Web sites with catchy names like Zicasso and Tripology, have emerged in the last year, offering to act as free matchmaking services for vacationers in search of traditional agents. 
 On the sites, travelers fill out forms describing the types of trip they're interested in (say, scuba diving in the Caribbean or a culinary vacation in Tuscany). The sites send those requests to agents who specialize in that region or type of trip. Travelers then receive e-mail alerts with up to three itinerary proposals from competing agents. Compete4yourseat.com, another matchmaking site, helps travelers connect with agents to find lower airfares. Travelers fill out a trip request form on the home page and once an agent bids on their requests, they can log in to view the deal. 
 Not unlike the online dating world, niche sites have begun to emerge. AdventureLink.com, for example, aims to connect travelers to adventure specialists, whether a tour operator or a travel agent. Though currently in test mode, it has 50,000 trips in its database that customers can search, and it plans to add travel agents this fall. 
 The new matchmaking services appeal to travelers used to doing Web research -- but frustrated with online booking engines -- while allowing agents, who have been squeezed by competition from online travel companies and commission cuts in recent years, to expand their reach and connect with new customers. 
 ''We're combining off-line personal travel expertise with the online world,'' said Brian K.Y. Tan, founder and chief executive of Zicasso.com, which went live in March, after a four-month test. Zicasso doesn't have a large number of agents in its roster. ''Our approach is about the quality of the travel companies and agents, not quantity,'' said Mr. Tan. Travel agent membership to Zicasso is invitation-only, and over the last two years, Mr. Tan and his wife, Yuchun Ku, say they have personally picked the 150-some agents and tour operators that are listed in the company's online network under ''Explore.'' A major requirement, said Mr. Tan: ''The agents who are selling that trip to X country need to have traveled there.'' 
 Zicasso forwards trip requests to specialists ''whom we feel are the best personalized match,'' said Mr. Tan. Companies pay Zicasso a commission when a lead turns into a sale.
 Tripology.com, which has been operating in test mode since June of last year, takes a more self-selecting approach. It has more than 7,500 agents who pay for every traveler referral they choose to respond to. While the site reviews each agent's application before they can receive leads, Tripology operates like an open marketplace. Travel agents ''select those trips in which they really feel properly suited to handle and frankly want to handle,'' said John T. Peters, Tripology's chief executive.
 The sites plan to keep agents honest by encouraging users to provide feedback, including ratings and comments about agents (think TripAdvisor for travel agents). Tripology.com lets anyone who has used the site to comment on agents who responded. At Zicasso, only travelers who have booked a trip are eligible to write a review. 
 But does it work? I decided to try to find out, by coming up with two potential vacations -- a two-week hiking trip to Patagonia, and a weeklong stay at the Rockhouse hotel or a similar resort in Negril, Jamaica -- and then sending my requests to Zicasso and Tripology. (I sent my requests from my personal e-mail address, so that the agents would not know the query came from a reporter for The New York Times.) The results were mixed.
 Zicasso took about a day to get back to me about my Negril request. Though the agent recommended a hotel that was not as design-conscious as the Rockhouse -- a key element of my trip request -- it was less expensive, and the flights from New York were nonstop. A day later, I received an e-mail alert with contact information for another agent who specialized in the Caribbean but was suggesting an itinerary above my budget of $2,000.
 In response to my Patagonia trip request, the site sent me some sample itineraries to review and asked for more clarification about my budget and desired activities before offering to put me in touch with specialists. 
 From Tripology, I promptly received responses from three agents competing for the Patagonia trip. Two of them felt like canned package deals with little detail on hotels and transfers, but they both specified that the options were simply suggestions and could be customized to fit my needs. One response from a boutique adventure tour operator from Dallas, suggesting a 10-day trip at $2,790 a person, arrived less than an hour after I submitted my trip request. 
 A third agent, from Seattle, sent an enthusiastic note detailing his love for the region, pointing out that he had traveled there, and asking for more details about accommodation preferences. After receiving my response, he sent me two detailed 12-day trip proposals (one for $3,795 a person, the other for $4,349 a person) with descriptions of each hotel, including photos. 
 The responses for the more specific trip request for a week at the Rockhouse hotel in Negril at a better price were disappointing. One agent recommended a hotel based on TripAdvisor reviews. Another said the Rockhouse hotel was fully booked, when it wasn't -- I called and checked. 
 Mr. Peters of Tripology said it was possible the Jamaica hotel was fully booked when the agent checked, as hotel reservations can ''change by the minute.'' As for our trip request for a better vacation rate, he said, ''If you're out trying to see if you can save $10 or $20 just looking for cheap, cheap, cheap that's not what we're about. What we're about is value, and destination and product expertise.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTTO STEININGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); WEB SITES (70%); WATER SPORTS (68%); SCUBA DIVING (68%); AIR FARES (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



668 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED NIGHT JOBS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: . . . A Bartender

BYLINE: By CHARLES DELAFUENTE

 BODY:
BARTENDING may look simple, but it isn't. Making a good mojito takes eight steps. The cocktail known as sex on the beach has four ingredients, one more than a woo-woo. A bartender has to know hundreds of recipes by heart. 
 That takes education. 
 The New York Bartending School gives lessons in mixing nearly 200 kinds of drinks and in selecting wine. James Bumbery opened a recent session by putting a half-dozen rookies behind the bar -- on the second floor of a walk-up office building near Times Square -- and ordering them to make drinks. He called out ingredients. By Day 2, he didn't have to (homework: memorize flashcards with each drink).
 The school, which is state-licensed, is one of hundreds across the country. Columbia University's student-run bartending agency offers classes open to the public at its School of Mixology. The ABC Bartending School has programs in more than two dozen cities; Professional Bartending Schools of America lists more than 60 state-licensed facilities on its Web site, including the New York Bartending School. 
 The New York program runs 40 hours, spread over one to three weeks, as the student chooses. Cost: $695. 
 Tom Sisson, director of the school, calls the business ''recession proof.'' In good times, he says, people are carefree and want to drink, and ''if things are tough, people want to go out and drown their sorrows.'' He says his graduates can be found tending bar at Jekyll and Hyde, Gramercy Tavern, Planet Hollywood, Tavern on the Green, the Hard Rock Cafe and even Scores. Mr. Sisson is so sure that students can earn $200 to $250 a weeknight in New York that he tells them, ''If it's not that much, find another bar.''
 Students come from all walks of life, teaching to plumbing. Alan Stiles, 53, who trains sales professionals, says he has no plans to quit his day job. He sees mixing drinks as a lucrative sideline. And, he says, ''I always wanted to be a bartender.''
 After just a few hours in class, he was confident enough to teach me the preferred technique for drinks that require two liquors: hold a bottle in each hand by the neck and pour simultaneously. For a sex on the beach, the novices had to pour from bottles of vodka and peach schnapps at the same time, then from bottles of cranberry juice and orange juice. (For a woo-woo, hold the orange.)
 The trick, says the fast-talking Mr. Bumbery, is to do ''the most amount of things you can do in the least amount of moves.'' To prove their ability -- and to earn a certificate of completion (good for job hunting but not required) -- students must mix 20 drinks in six minutes. An instructor orders them two at a time. 
 Though students use real ice -- the feel is important -- the ''liquor'' is actually colored water. Each student mixes some 200 drinks in a four-hour session, and the real stuff would cost too much. And what, Mr. Bumbery asks with a smile, ''if they wanted to taste their work?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PROOF: Mahlaynee Cooper takes her final at the New York Bartending School. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (57%); WEB SITES (52%)

COMPANY: PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



669 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; PARENTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Helping Families Right Where They Live

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: parenting@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
 AT 67, Mattie Gordon is still raising children, and she is weary.
 When Ms. Gordon was 16, her mother died and she was sent from Georgia to Newark to live with an aunt. Instead of going to 11th grade, she went to work in a laundry. She married young, had seven children in seven years, and by the time she was 29, she and her husband had split, for many reasons, she said, including his drug use. He died long ago.
 She is blind in one eye, crippled in one leg, and has lived for the last 20 years in Bradley Court, a public housing project known as a haven for drug dealing and a hot spot for murder. Three of her sons are dead -- two in infancy and one from AIDS. Her only daughter died from breast cancer at 36, leaving two children whom Ms. Gordon has cared for these last 10 years. ''I had to,'' she said, ''the father's in jail.''
 It was harder being a parent the second time around, she said. ''Oh, my God, so hard. I'm older. I was strict with my own children, but by my grandchildren, I was too tired.'' 
 She has relied on public assistance for years, and any crisis meant a trip downtown to the welfare office. ''You take a number and wait for them to call, sit there, no lunch, waste a whole day, then walking back up the hill at the end of the day. Oh God, what a mess.''
 But that has changed for her in the last year, with the arrival of one of the state's 46 new Family Success Centers here at the Bradley Court projects. The little center has three trained case workers just down the hall from Ms. Gordon's apartment, and they use high-speed computer hookups to deliver the government and community services poor families are entitled to, but often don't know how to track down.
 The idea, which has the support of both Gov. Jon S. Corzine and Newark Mayor Cory A. Booker, is to deliver poor families better support faster, so they stay intact and children are kept out of the state's costly and often troubled foster care system.
 Last week, Theresa Ellis, a case worker in the office, arranged a job interview for Ms. Gordon's granddaughter Anniyah, 18. The month before, she helped Ms. Gordon arrange physical therapy three times a week for her bad right leg. Eight months ago, Ms. Ellis persuaded one of Ms. Gordon's middle-aged sons to go into drug rehab. She spoke to him on a Tuesday, Ms. Gordon said, ''and next day he had a book bag over his shoulder and was going to a program -- he's still in rehab, working and clean eight months now.''
 Newark, which has 11 of the 46 new centers, is a prime target for the program. One quarter of the 10,000 New Jersey children who have been removed from their homes by the state and placed in foster care live in Newark.
 Last year, the state appropriated $7 million to create new centers, plus convert about a dozen existing programs that were part of earlier, failed welfare reform efforts. The Robert Wood Johnson and Nicholson foundations provided an additional $2 million.
 ''Our hope is the stronger we make these families in the community, the fewer child abuse and neglect cases we see,'' said Darrell Armstrong, a director in the state's Department of Children and Families. ''We're not dwelling on what got you here, but how we can get you out of here. And we're not making you come to a welfare office. We're coming to you, in your neighborhood.'' 
 New Jersey modeled the program on a network of 33 centers that has operated for the last decade in Pittsburgh and surrounding Allegheny County, Pa.
 Most workers at the centers are parents from the neighborhood, trained by Family Intervention Services, a nonprofit started 27 years ago to help keep children out of foster care. Jeanne Warnock, the director, said Ms. Ellis is the prototype of the case worker they're looking for.
 She's 41, lives at the Bradley projects, and has her own hard history. She describes herself as a recovered drug addict and mother of 10 who at one point lost custody of her own children to foster care, but fought her problems and won the children back.
 Few at Bradley Court own computers, and Ms. Ellis's ability to use the NJHelps Web site to assist them right there in the projects in applying for work programs, Medicaid, food stamps or home energy grants seems like a minor miracle. ''They may not understand the process, may have reading troubles, and I help with the application,'' she said. ''They can come in here and for no charge use the fax, phone or copy machine.''
 Social services representatives visit the Family Success office regularly: a state employment worker comes every Wednesday from 1 to 3; Fridays, from 12 to 2, there's a food pantry; a food stamp van visits monthly.
 Studies show that when drug addicts finally seek help, they need immediate services or may be lost. Ms. Ellis said she is able to get someone enrolled within 24 hours. ''We have people going off to rehab every Monday, Wednesday and Friday morning at 6,'' she said.
 The state director, Mr. Armstrong, acknowledges that to have a significant effect on the foster care caseload, many more centers would be needed. He would like 30 in Newark and surrounding Essex County. He believes the financing level, $200,000 per center, is about a third of what it should be. ''Two hundred thousand doesn't meet the kind of need, but it's a respectable start,'' he said. Given the economy, he said he was just grateful that the legislature recently renewed the program through July 2009.
 ''This is the third child welfare reform I've been through,'' said Ms. Warnock of Family Intervention. ''A program gets started, there's a change of administration, and you can never tell what happens when a new governor comes in.'' Still, she said, ''This has the best chance I've seen in 27 years to get it right.''
 Ms. Gordon hopes so. She is getting help from Ms. Ellis on one final project. ''You know what my dream is,'' Ms. Gordon said. ''To live alone. I've never lived alone in my life. I've always had people to take care of. I just want to live by myself once, even if it's just for a week. I'd love to see what it feels like.''
 Now that her grandchildren are 18 and 23, Ms. Gordon thinks it may be time. Ms. Ellis has found her a residential senior center, in the suburbs, about a half-hour away, but Ms. Gordon is nervous. ''I may not be ready,'' Ms. Gordon said. ''I'm a decent person, I want a decent place, I don't want just any senior center. I might be lonely. I won't know nobody there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STAYING CLOSE: Mattie Gordon, above left, with her granddaughter Anniyah Bishop, and receiving physical therapy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TIMOTHY IVY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); FOSTER CARE (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (76%); MURDER (74%); AIDS & HIV (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (60%); BREAST CANCER (55%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



670 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Working Long Hours, And Paying a Price

BYLINE: By KELLEY HOLLAND. 
E-mail: newmanage@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DO you ever mutter under your breath at a dry cleaner with the temerity to open as late as 7 a.m.? Have you snapped at a neighbor who asks if you plan to attend the 7:30 p.m. town council meeting? Does your child have trouble remembering which country you are in this week? 
 If you answered yes to more than one of these questions, chances are you have been working the long hours that are increasingly common for many salaried employees. 
 Officially, the average workweek has changed little in the last two decades. But those figures mask a shift in who works the most. In 1983, the lowest-paid workers were more likely to work long hours, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. But by 2002, the most highly paid workers were twice as likely to work long hours as the lowest paid. 
 After my last column, on obesity as a workplace issue, my inbox was full of messages describing long days of sedentary work -- along with lunches gulped down in the office, frequent travel and BlackBerrys that never seem to quit. 
 Is all this work a bad thing? 
 Truth be told, as a society we have been ambivalent about work hours as long as -- well, as long as we have been a society. There have been demands for shorter work hours since the late 18th century, when it was not uncommon to spend 70 or more hours each week performing some kind of manual labor. In 1791, for example, Philadelphia carpenters went on strike, demanding a 10-hour workday. And in the 1840s, the Lowell Female Labor Reform Association petitioned the Massachusetts legislature for a 10-hour workday for mill workers. (Both efforts failed.) 
 But our Puritan work ethic has been part of our culture for just as long. Some employees are drawn to challenging, demanding work and the outsize financial rewards that can follow. A survey of highly paid American workers published in 2006 by the Center for Work-Life Policy found that 21 percent of them -- mostly men, it should be noted -- said they worked at least 60 hours a week under highly stressful conditions. Two-thirds of those respondents said they loved their work. 
 ''Americans do seem to want to work longer, and you ask them, 'Do you like your job?' and we like our jobs more than other people do,'' said Robert Whaples, a professor of economics at Wake Forest University who has studied work hours. 
 Professor Whaples theorized that when most people were working 12 hours a day or more, obtaining any amount of leisure time was more of a priority. But the general reduction in work hours has helped ease the need for downtime for at least some workers. 
 Alternatively, he said, ''Maybe we've convinced ourselves this is what we should be doing'' in a world of conspicuous consumption. 
 Still, long days at work take a serious toll. For starters, it is very hard for employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle when work and commuting consume 60 or more hours a week. It is probably not a coincidence that obesity has become more prevalent as work hours have expanded for some. 
 Too many hours at the office can also wind up being counterproductive. Employees who are overtired or preoccupied with neglected personal issues are unlikely to perform at their peak. They fall behind, spend more unproductive time at work to catch up, and so on.
 It is in managers' interests to help employees find ways to get more done in less time, and some are trying. 
 Sprint Nextel, for example, offers its employees time-saving services like the ability to fill prescriptions at work and help with travel planning, said Collier Case, Sprint's director of health and productivity. There are also incentives to stay active at work: the headquarters in Overland Park, Kan., has covered pathways between buildings, and stairwells are designed to be inviting. (Also, some elevators operate at deliberately slow speeds.) 
 Other companies are addressing the problems of long hours head on. About a year ago, the financial services asset management group at Ernst & Young began trying to cope better with its busy season, roughly February to May, when long stretches of 11- and 12-hour days and weekend work are the norm. Arthur Tully, the partner in charge of the group, went to his manager, who offered to pay for consultants who could help change the group's work style. 
 The consultants emphasized the inefficiency of multitasking (nothing gets done very well); the need for adequate sleep, exercise and a healthy diet; and the importance of scheduling time for restorative personal priorities. 
 Things changed. Free fruit was supplied twice daily, and bagels and cream cheese were replaced with granola and fruit. Employees were also urged to limit weekend work to one day when feasible, and get home to their families on Friday nights. 
 ''There's a view that the longer you work, the better you are,'' Mr. Tully said. ''But that's not true at all.''
 It was the group's busiest season ever, Mr. Tully said, but employees' hours declined over all. He does not yet know what effect the program had on turnover, but at least one part of it has been made permanent. The fruit deliveries ended after the busy season, and employees objected immediately. The fruit, Mr. Tully said, is back. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (76%); WORK WEEK (76%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (75%); STRIKES (75%); ETHICS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); OBESITY (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CITIES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



671 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: Growing Pains Come and Go In Bed-Stuy

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Dakota Blair acknowledges that both he and the apartment building where he lives are somewhat out of place. 
 Mr. Blair, 23, a software engineer from East Texas, pays $1,700 a month for a studio in what he calls the Yuppie Spaceship: a new luxury apartment building on an unluxurious corner in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. After nine months in the neighborhood, which New York magazine labeled the city's ''next hipster enclave,'' Mr. Blair is considering moving out.
 He figures that for $1,700, he could be living in Manhattan. There is a subway station down the street from his building at Myrtle and Nostrand Avenues, but it is for the G train, which does not go into Manhattan. Other neighborhoods eagerly anticipate the arrival of new cafes or restaurants, but on Myrtle Avenue, the biggest news is the opening of a Duane Reade pharmacy.
 ''The only thing keeping me here is my lease,'' Mr. Blair said. 
 Even for hipsters, life in one of New York City's frontier neighborhoods -- long-troubled places at the fringes of gentrification -- can be anything but smooth, particularly in these uncertain economic times.
 New residents like Mr. Blair have grown frustrated waiting for change to come to Bed-Stuy, a north-central Brooklyn neighborhood with high rates of crime and foreclosures, trash-strewn streets and limited night life. And the owners of businesses that have recently opened to cater to this new population wait, in turn, for a surge that has not yet arrived. 
 Longtime residents concerned about the architectural and cultural fate of Bed-Stuy, the largest predominantly black neighborhood in New York City, relish the slow speed of change. But they still worry about rising rents and have become weary of living and working next to buildings that are new, sleek and, in their eyes, ugly.
 Myrtle Avenue, which cuts across the northern edge of the neighborhood, is at a crossroads of the gentrified and the ungentrified. Down the street from where a shoeless man lay on a piece of cardboard on the sidewalk one recent afternoon, a two-bedroom condo was for sale at 609 Myrtle Avenue for $675,000. On one side of Myrtle Avenue are the Marcy Houses, one of Brooklyn's biggest public housing projects and the former home of the rapper Jay-Z, where the average monthly rent, subsidized by the federal government, is $334. Across the street is the luxury building where Mr. Blair lives, the Mynt, at 756 Myrtle Avenue. 
 Along the avenue, there are building and roofing supply stores, auto shops and the twin red-brick smokestacks of the Cascade linen and uniform plant. There is a liquor store that advertises a ''Birthday Special'' -- 5 percent off spirits and 10 percent off wines on a customer's birthday. Into this mix came FreshDirect, the online grocery delivery service, which officially started delivering in April in Bed-Stuy.
 There used to be a 12-foot-wide, blue-colored mural at Myrtle and Nostrand Avenues, diagonal from the Mynt. The painting listed the names of neighborhood murder victims inside the chalk outline of a body, an inevitable memorial in a police precinct where homicide was once a weekly occurrence.
 Mr. Blair took a picture of the mural in January, but the snapshot is already an antique: Someone covered it up with a thin layer of concrete, and now only one side of it remains, a tribute to lives cut short -- Hollywood, Danny Dan, Rocky -- itself cut short. It reads ''Rest in.''
 The half-covered mural is an apt symbol of Bed-Stuy today: a changing neighborhood not quite changed, transforming not in broad strokes but in half-steps. 
 The average sales price of residential property and the number of sales in Bed-Stuy, Bushwick and other nearby neighborhoods have dropped sharply, according to a recent report released by the brokerage firm Prudential Douglas Elliman. The report found that from April 1 to June 30, the average sales price in the area was $500,925, down from $539,187 in the same period a year ago. The situation was different in the Greenpoint and Williamsburg area, where the average sales price was $663,946, a 13 percent increase from the same period last year. 
 There have been other signs of stalled growth. 
 Bed-Stuy had the second-highest number of foreclosure filings in Brooklyn last year and the fourth-highest of any neighborhood in the city, according to an analysis by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. Building permits have also dropped. In the first two quarters of this year, 50 permits for new residential buildings were issued by the city's Department of Buildings in Community District 3, which includes Bed-Stuy. In the first two quarters of 2005, 93 such permits were issued.
 Jonathan J. Miller, the president and chief executive of Miller Samuel Inc., a real estate appraisal company that prepared the Prudential Douglas Elliman report, said the impact of the credit crunch -- tighter lending standards imposed by banks that have made it hard for many people to secure credit -- is felt more severely in ''emerging markets'' like Bed-Stuy. 
 ''The pace has slowed considerably,'' Mr. Miller said. 
 Cafe Naico, which opened at 705 Myrtle Avenue in 2006 offering lattes, smoothies and free Wi-Fi, tried staying open late for dinner for a few months, but then scaled back its evening hours. ''It wasn't feasible to keep the kitchen open later hours,'' said the owner, Ocian Dailly, 33. ''There wasn't enough business.''
 Petra Symister, 36, a psychology professor at Kingsborough Community College in Brooklyn, is a regular patron of the cafe, one of the few establishments within walking distance of her condo where customers do not order from behind bulletproof glass. 
 Ms. Symister moved to Bed-Stuy nearly three years ago from Chelsea in Manhattan, buying a condo on Myrtle Avenue for less than $400,000. One recent Friday night, about two blocks from her home, a teenager was shot and killed. The next day, her pleasant afternoon at home was briefly interrupted when two detectives from the 79th Precinct asked her if she had heard anything unusual the morning of July 12, when there was a burglary downstairs. 
 ''It's happening in fits and starts, kind of a jerky progression,'' Ms. Symister said of the neighborhood's rebirth. ''But it is happening.''
 Indeed, a number of empty lots have been developed for the first time in decades, and there is far less crime than in years past. Private developers, community development corporations like the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation and the city's housing agency are planning new co-op, rental and condo units, including several projects that allow developers to build at greater than usual density in exchange for setting aside units for low- or middle-income tenants.
 But evidence of a slowdown can be seen. The Mynt was originally planned as condominiums, but the developer converted it to rentals, a move other developers in Bed-Stuy have made or are considering. 
 ''There's not a long tradition for condo development in Bed-Stuy,'' said Wendell Walters, an assistant commissioner at the housing agency, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''We're trying to make them happen, but the financing has proven to be a little challenging.'' 
 Bed-Stuy's growing pains have become a public affair. A group of bloggers, mostly newcomers to the neighborhood, draw attention to the best real estate picks and block parties, but also document the setbacks and victories on the path to revitalization.
 On Ms. Symister's blog, www.bedstuyblog.com, she has written about the abrupt closing of a corner gas station and the opening of the Duane Reade. A run-in Mr. Blair had in December with two men on Myrtle Avenue turned into a sizable post on his blog, www.antbed.com. He got the nickname he uses for his building, Yuppie Spaceship, from another neighborhood blog, bedstuybanana.blogspot.com. 
 The Mynt's Web site describes the building as being in the ''Clinton Hill/Bedford-Stuyvesant area.'' The boundaries of Bed-Stuy in the Encyclopedia of New York City place the building well inside Bed-Stuy and blocks outside Clinton Hill. Zipcar, the popular car-sharing company, has several cars in the northern end of Bed-Stuy, but it refers to the area on its Web site not as Bed-Stuy but as Williamsburg.
 This reshaping of Bed-Stuy's boundaries, character and affordability to poor and middle-income families has concerned residents and community leaders of this predominantly black neighborhood. On Myrtle Avenue, several men and women in the Marcy Houses and the surrounding area worried that buildings like the Mynt, where a one-bedroom rental can cost $1,900 a month, were the future of Bed-Stuy. 
 ''Most of us can't afford that,'' said Ronald Alston, 63, a semiretired painter who lives on Vernon Avenue.
 Matthew Warner, 25, a law student at New York University, has lived in a one-bedroom apartment in a brownstone at the southern end of Bed-Stuy for a little more than a year. He plans to move in a few months to the East Village in Manhattan. ''We just wish there was more variety nearby, for places to go out,'' he said. ''You just wish you could go out and have different types of bars and night life nearby.''
 Mr. Warner and Mr. Blair are white, and they said that their decisions to leave or consider leaving had nothing to do with living in a largely black neighborhood. But they and other recent arrivals described being the targets of hostile racial remarks, isolated incidents that they said detracted from the positive reaction they received from others in the neighborhood. 
 Henry L. Butler, 41, a longtime Bed-Stuy resident and the chairman of Community Board 3, said the race of the newcomers was not the issue. ''It's about income,'' said Mr. Butler, who wants to see more housing that is affordable to working-class tenants. ''I'm not looking to Harlemize Bedford-Stuyvesant. My emphasis is on the working people.'' 
 Roy Vanasco, 82, calls his home-appliance store on Myrtle Avenue, quite accurately, the ''house of a million parts.'' Lined with stove burners, newspaper clippings and signed photographs of the actor Harry Guardino, there is nothing modern about All Appliance Refrigerator, which he opened at 610 Myrtle Avenue in 1953. The shop is hard to miss: It is the one with the flag-draped washing machine out front.
 Across the street -- Mr. Vanasco remembers when the street had elevated train tracks -- is the new condo building at 609 Myrtle Avenue. ''It doesn't have the mood of the community,'' he said of the building. ''It's just sad that money can change a neighborhood, can destroy a neighborhood.''
 He said he was offered $1.5 million for his three-story building and the narrow lot next door. He said he had turned it down, for now.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new condo building at 609 Myrtle Avenue, right, is evidence of change in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PETRA SYMISTER: Owner of a Myrtle Avenue condo, on the neioghborhood's rebirth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ROY VANASCO: Owner of All Appliance Refrigerator on Myrtle Avenue, where developers have sought to buy him out. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21)
 Dakota Blair, 23, pays $1,700 for a studio at the Mynt, which sits across Myrtle Avenue from the Marcy Houses project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON) (pg.A22) MAP: Gentrification has made for unlikely neighbors in Bed-Stuy. (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (84%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CRIME RATES (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (70%); HIP HOP CULTURE (69%); FORECLOSURE (65%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (62%); RAP MUSIC (60%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



672 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Raucous Russian Tabloids Thrive Despite Narrowing of Press Freedom

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD; Julia Talanova contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
For decades, Komsomolskaya Pravda served up article after leaden article about Soviet officials meeting with other Soviet officials. Now, reinvented as a tabloid, the newspaper has a rowdier agenda -- and a huge audience. 
 The paper's most-read item one recent day was a verbal catfight between a celebrity radio hostess and Ksenia Sobchak, Russia's answer to Paris Hilton.
 In the newspaper's Moscow offices, a star correspondent was polishing an intrigue-filled opus on the death of the supermodel from Kazakhstan who jumped -- or so the police said -- from her Lower Manhattan balcony last month. The editor-in-chief was lukewarm on the photo of the model in her prime: Was there one that showed a little more leg? 
 A 27-year-old crime reporter thought he might have a big scoop, the ultimate Russian tear-jerker: A World War II veteran said he had been robbed of his medals. Better yet, the old soldier claimed to have served with the father of Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin. 
 ''We'll run, before the competition beats us,'' the reporter, Shamil Dzhemakulov, shouted to his anxious editor. ''I have all the documents!''
 The newspaper is part of a vibrant tabloid culture that illustrates the complex nature of Russian life under Mr. Putin. As long as they do not threaten the Kremlin or its closest friends, it seems, Russian newspapers can be as raucous as they like. 
 For papers like Komsomolskaya Pravda, which sells more copies than any other Russian newspaper, the country's recent rollback of press freedoms is largely beside the point. 
 Their investigative journalism tends toward exposes of incompetent police work, corrupt low-level officials and dirty train stations, everyday problems Russians care about. And their standard fare of scandal, entertainment and ''news you can use'' represents a normalization of sorts in a country that for years was too poor to develop a consumer culture and too caught up with political turmoil to dwell on celebrity gossip. 
 Founded in 1925 as the organ of the Komsomol, the Communist Party's youth movement, Komsomolskaya Pravda has kept only its name from the Soviet past. Now, its bread-and-butter themes would not be out of place in the tabloids of New York or London.
 Its most-feared competitor for Moscow readers, Moskovsky Komsomolets, is another former Communist organ that now specializes in acidly written crime briefs. One told how a large-breasted woman tried to bribe the police with wads of cash hidden in her bra. A national rival, Zhizn, is modeled on Fleet Street's The Sun. 
 Publishers like theirs have decided that Russian society is tired of politics and has turned its attention to more mundane topics like shopping and family life. 
 ''It's not politics, it's not economics. It's the everyday life of people. Love, tears, what we call Santa Barbara,'' Sergei Ponomaryov, the regional editor of Komsomolskaya Pravda, said, referring to the American soap opera that took Russia by storm in the 1990s.
 Russia's newspapers have changed with the country. Under Communism, newspapers were gray government mouthpieces like Pravda, whose name was Russian for truth. After the Soviet Union fell, they exposed once-forbidden stories of oppression. Later, they took part in the rough-and-tumble political battles of the 1990s, as Russia's new plutocrats vied for power and sometimes bought newspapers to use as weapons. 
 Now, press freedom has dwindled as the Kremlin has consolidated control over media, particularly by forcing the sale of independent television stations and newspapers to government-friendly owners. 
 A few investigative newspaper reporters still regularly confront the Kremlin. But their work is dangerous -- several, like Anna Politkovskaya, have died in mysterious circumstances -- and their publications, compared with the tabloids, sell poorly. 
 That contrast has earned the tabloids some resentment. 
 ''Komsomolskaya Pravda has absolutely no relation to freedom of the press,'' said Aleksei K. Simonov, founder of the Glasnost Defense Foundation, a Moscow-based organization that monitors press freedom. ''It doesn't trouble them at all.'' 
 He said the tabloids might be fun but that, like celebrity obsessions in other countries, they distract readers from fundamental issues, like the country's lack of effective political opposition and persistent social problems.
 To be fair, Komsomolskaya Pravda has pursued its own brand of muckraking. It has spotlighted problems of violence against immigrants from Central Asia and the Caucasus and asked whether the police could have acted more quickly to catch a serial killer known as the Bitsevsky Maniac. 
 Still, the paper, controlled in part by Baltic Media Group, whose president has been reported in Russian media to be close to Mr. Putin, does not seriously challenge him or President Dmitri A. Medvedev.
 Vladimir Sungorkin, Komsomolskaya Pravda's editor and general director, says its ''optimistic'' tone and lowbrow approach give readers what they want. They also help the paper survive at a time of shrinking profit margins and increasing competition from the Internet, the challenges that face newspapers around the world. 
 ''It's not a gloomy newspaper,'' he said in an interview at the paper's headquarters in a former coat factory. ''We need to help people live.''
 Some readers, particularly Russia's intelligentsia, he said, have criticized the paper for being too sunny, too patriotic, too obsessed with sex and scandal. He calls them ''fundamentalist'' readers, ''irritable and easily wounded.''
 But he says his circulation numbers support his strategy. According to Russia's National Circulation Service, Komsomolskaya Pravda has 745,000 readers daily and 3.1 million for its weekly edition. Its closest competitors are Argumenty i Fakty, a weekly with 2.9 million readers and a mix of celebrity fare and serious news, and Zhizn, with two million. Staples of the intelligentsia and business communities, like Kommersant and Literaturnaya Gazeta, print fewer than 100,000 copies.
 ''If we cover high culture, people will run away,'' Mr. Sungorkin said. ''Leo Tolstoy, we won't come close to.'' 
 At one of the paper's recent daily meetings, several dozen editors planned the next day's paper. 
 Above their conference table hung a large photograph of Mr. Putin peering over large sunglasses. Nearby were smaller portraits of opposition figures. At the back of the room hung a red velvet banner decorated with profiles of Stalin and Lenin, an artifact from the paper's old building.
 Editors announced their articles in staccato shorthand and teased one another with repartee straight out of the 1994 Michael Keaton movie ''The Paper.'' 
 ''An explosion in the suburbs,'' said Yulia Volosataya, who edits crime stories. ''Four prostitutes in the hospital, and, one, uh, 'consumer.' ''
 Another editor suggested, ''Let's say, 'user.' '' 
 A tentative layout of the article from New York, ''Seven Versions of the Death of a Russian Supermodel,'' flashed on a screen. ''We're so sorry she ended up this way,'' one editor blurted out.
 Mr. Sungorkin was more concerned about the photo of the model, Ruslana Kornushova. It showed her striding down a runway in flowing pants that showed only a glimpse of shin. 
 ''I'm sorry that she ended up without legs,'' he said. 
 There was a discussion of more serious news, almost as an afterthought. United Russia, Mr. Putin's party, was kicking out some members, perhaps for being too independent.
 ''Do a small item. Don't make it too gloomy,'' Mr. Sungorkin ordered.
 Later, Zhenya Suprychova, 25, one of the paper's stars, was starting on an undercover investigation into city problems. She was trying to get hired by a meat factory, where she suspected conditions would be less than safe and sanitary.
 Mr. Dzhemakulov, the crime reporter, jumped in a taxi. He originally came to Moscow planning to study literature, but got hooked, he said, on the adrenaline of tabloid journalism. Now he was hoping to be first to confirm that the victimized veteran had served with Mr. Putin's father.
 The reporter -- whose business card reads ''We pay for any type of information'' -- had gotten the man's number from one of the paper's many paid tipsters in police stations, hospitals, cemeteries and government offices. 
 In a one-room apartment on the outskirts of Moscow, the veteran, Boris Skachkov, 85, described how three young women had talked their way into his apartment and ripped the medals from the threadbare jacket where he had pinned them. The medals fetch good money on the market. 
 ''I cried all night,'' he said before pulling out a yellowing snapshot that he said showed him with Mr. Putin's father.
 Shaky with excitement, Mr. Dzhemakulov snapped photos of the picture. Then his worst fear came true. The doorbell rang, and in walked two young women from Tvoi Den, the daily edition of the tabloid Zhizn, his nemesis.
 Later, his editor said that unless he could confirm that Mr. Skachkov had served with Mr. Putin's father, the article did not rate the front page. It was too late to reach the military. The dead model took the front-page slot. 
 The next morning, Mr. Dzhemakulov woke to see the veteran on the front page of Tvoi Den: ''Brother-In-Arms of Vladimir Putin's Father Robbed!''
 He consoled himself with professional pride. ''They go for screaming headlines,'' he said. ''We have different standards.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The staff of Komsomolskaya Pravda at its headquarters. Recent papers featured a hockey player hit with a cake and the headlines, ''Have Piranhas Appeared Again in Novosibirsk?'' and ''In Krasnoyarsk They Are Closing 50 Street Cafes.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKHAIL GALUSTOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); POLITICS (87%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); SCANDALS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BRIBERY (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); WORLD WAR II (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); FAMILY (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); PARIS HILTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



673 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; READING NEW YORK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Fair, a Law and the Urban Walker

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
NOT long ago, I wrote that New York's last World's Fair, in 1964-65, paled in comparison with the 1939 version, but at least ''did expose Michelangelo's 'Pieta' to millions and popularized the Belgian waffle.'' In his new book, ''The End of the Innocence: The 1964-65 New York World's Fair'' (Syracuse University Press, $29.95), Lawrence R. Samuel rejects similar swipes as ''dismissive thinking.'' Instead, he delivers an overdue and well-deserved encomium to a largely denigrated chapter in the city's history.
 ''There were,'' writes Mr. Samuel, the author of several books of social history, ''really two fairs in Queens in 1964 and 1965, or at least two constructions of its past. The first,'' among the last gasps of the master builder Robert Moses, ''is steeped in its official memory, the business enterprise that lost money, overcharged exhibitors, offended the intellectual and aesthetic elite. The other can be found in its popular memory -- the experience that most visitors found thoroughly enjoyable, if not enthralling, that sparked imaginations and reshaped people's vision of the world.'' 
 Mr. Samuel, like the fair itself, may sometimes overstate his case. But his book is a thoroughly enjoyable, if not always enthralling, reconstruction of both a largely forgotten era and of a society on the cusp of upheaval. No wonder, as he writes, the fair's organizers bypassed ''the uninviting near future'' for a distant utopian vision. 
 I have my own recollections of the fair. I was 15, and my parents wouldn't let me go on opening day because of fears that threatened civil rights demonstrations might turn violent, fears that, Mr. Lawrence writes, signaled America's emergence from a ''postwar cocoon.'' 
 My own loss of innocence, though, was probably more attributable to the good times I enjoyed with various high school and college girlfriends during what must have been a dozen visits to Flushing Meadows over the next two years. These visits exposed me to, among other things, color television, the Ford Mustang, the Pieta and, yes, Belgian waffles. 
 For all of Moses' faults, Mr. Lawrence reminds us, the legacy of his fair includes a mountain of magical individual reminiscences, along with the transformation of the part of Queens that F. Scott Fitzgerald once described as a ''valley of ashes'' into a great park where, even today, new memories are being made.
 With New York still in the midst of a building boom (though jeopardized by a vulnerable economy) and its population closing in on nine million, it takes a philosopher to declare that its reign as the world's capital ended with the attacks of Sept. 11. But in ''Concrete Reveries: Consciousness and the City'' (Viking, $24.95), Mark Kingwell, a philosophy professor at the University of Toronto, concludes that while New York may have been the capital of the 20th century, Shanghai is the ''city of tomorrow.'' That is a grim assessment. But Professor Kingwell, the author of an earlier book about the Empire State Building, also devotes a chunk of his book to a street-level reverie inspired by New York's pedestrian culture, one that evokes the urbanologist William H. Whyte. 
 ''The basic rule of walking in New York is: at all costs, don't break stride,'' Professor Kingwell writes. He describes the ''functional mass of undulating vectors'' crisscrossing the concourse of Grand Central Terminal, and adds: ''The pressure of movement is valved by small releases, little quick-step rushes and raised-eyebrow warnings, so that the number of actual collisions falls to an implausible minimum.''
 He codifies another rule for the walker in the city as ''Don't look up.'' Yet, he writes, since 9/11, ''there is a new and sincere love affair with the skyscraper here.'' And, while waxing rhapsodic about the street grid, he adds: ''Getting lost in New York feels like an achievement, a gift.'' 
 I've never been to Shanghai. I'm sure it's an inviting, even inspiring place. But I'm not ready to write off New York. If it's fair to conclude, as Professor Kingwell does, that ''the time of unquestioned, unquestioning urban supremacy is over,'' it seems premature to declare that ''New York, no longer an incubator of dreams, becomes a spectral colony, an imperial theme park.'' 
 Thirty years ago, facing down a devastating fiscal crisis, skyrocketing crime and the growing suspicion that cities had finally proved themselves unmanageable, New Yorkers cautiously tiptoed into a brave new world. 
 On Aug. 1, 1978, Health Law 1310 took effect. The legislation would reinstate the tattered social contract, profoundly affect individual public behavior, and provide an unusually tangible sign that a government gone awry had finally gotten a grip.
 For the first time, New Yorkers were required to clean up after their dogs.
 In ''New York's Poop Scoop Law: Dogs, the Dirt, and Due Process'' (Purdue University Press, $29.95), Michael Brandow wittily dissects the anatomy and enforcement of the law, and explores his premise that any issue as emotionally charged as this one ''just has to be about something more than the obvious.'' 
 If the book has a hero, it's former Mayor Ed Koch, who pithily summed up his credo, at least on this issue, by saying: ''I don't care if it's good luck to step in it. I don't want to.'' 
 Mr. Brandow, a writer and a promoter of dog runs, gets a little carried away in promoting fauna over flora. But he raises a fair question: ''Why does a city rich with animal lovers have one of the poorest shelter systems in the country?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Unisphere, a signature feature of the 1964-65 World's Fair, and one artist's take on the issue of city dogs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1964) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (77%); HISTORY (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); WRITERS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ''The End of the Innocence: The 1964-65 New York World's Fair'' (Book)>; ''Concrete Reveries: Consciousness and the City'' (Book)>; ''New York's Poop Scoop Law: Dogs, the Dirt, and Due Process'' (Book)>; ''The End of the Innocence: The 1964-65 New York World's Fair'' (Book)>; ''Concrete Reveries: Consciousness and the City'' (Book)>; ''New York's Poop Scoop Law: Dogs, the Dirt, and Due Process'' (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



674 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3479 words

HEADLINE: Literacy Debate: Online, R U Really Reading?

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

DATELINE: BEREA, Ohio 

 BODY:
Books are not Nadia Konyk's thing. Her mother, hoping to entice her, brings them home from the library, but Nadia rarely shows an interest. 
 Instead, like so many other teenagers, Nadia, 15, is addicted to the Internet. She regularly spends at least six hours a day in front of the computer here in this suburb southwest of Cleveland.
 A slender, chatty blonde who wears black-framed plastic glasses, Nadia checks her e-mail and peruses myyearbook.com, a social networking site, reading messages or posting updates on her mood. She searches for music videos on YouTube and logs onto Gaia Online, a role-playing site where members fashion alternate identities as cutesy cartoon characters. But she spends most of her time on quizilla.com or fanfiction.net, reading and commenting on stories written by other users and based on books, television shows or movies. 
 Her mother, Deborah Konyk, would prefer that Nadia, who gets A's and B's at school, read books for a change. But at this point, Ms. Konyk said, ''I'm just pleased that she reads something anymore.'' 
 Children like Nadia lie at the heart of a passionate debate about just what it means to read in the digital age. The discussion is playing out among educational policy makers and reading experts around the world, and within groups like the National Council of Teachers of English and the International Reading Association. 
 As teenagers' scores on standardized reading tests have declined or stagnated, some argue that the hours spent prowling the Internet are the enemy of reading -- diminishing literacy, wrecking attention spans and destroying a precious common culture that exists only through the reading of books. 
 But others say the Internet has created a new kind of reading, one that schools and society should not discount. The Web inspires a teenager like Nadia, who might otherwise spend most of her leisure time watching television, to read and write. 
 Even accomplished book readers like Zachary Sims, 18, of Old Greenwich, Conn., crave the ability to quickly find different points of view on a subject and converse with others online. Some children with dyslexia or other learning difficulties, like Hunter Gaudet, 16, of Somers, Conn., have found it far more comfortable to search and read online.
 At least since the invention of television, critics have warned that electronic media would destroy reading. What is different now, some literacy experts say, is that spending time on the Web, whether it is looking up something on Google or even britneyspears.org, entails some engagement with text. 
 Setting Expectations
 Few who believe in the potential of the Web deny the value of books. But they argue that it is unrealistic to expect all children to read ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' or ''Pride and Prejudice'' for fun. And those who prefer staring at a television or mashing buttons on a game console, they say, can still benefit from reading on the Internet. In fact, some literacy experts say that online reading skills will help children fare better when they begin looking for digital-age jobs. 
 Some Web evangelists say children should be evaluated for their proficiency on the Internet just as they are tested on their print reading comprehension. Starting next year, some countries will participate in new international assessments of digital literacy, but the United States, for now, will not.
 Clearly, reading in print and on the Internet are different. On paper, text has a predetermined beginning, middle and end, where readers focus for a sustained period on one author's vision. On the Internet, readers skate through cyberspace at will and, in effect, compose their own beginnings, middles and ends.
 Young people ''aren't as troubled as some of us older folks are by reading that doesn't go in a line,'' said Rand J. Spiro, a professor of educational psychology at Michigan State University who is studying reading practices on the Internet. ''That's a good thing because the world doesn't go in a line, and the world isn't organized into separate compartments or chapters.''
 Some traditionalists warn that digital reading is the intellectual equivalent of empty calories. Often, they argue, writers on the Internet employ a cryptic argot that vexes teachers and parents. Zigzagging through a cornucopia of words, pictures, video and sounds, they say, distracts more than strengthens readers. And many youths spend most of their time on the Internet playing games or sending instant messages, activities that involve minimal reading at best.
 Last fall the National Endowment for the Arts issued a sobering report linking flat or declining national reading test scores among teenagers with the slump in the proportion of adolescents who said they read for fun. 
 According to Department of Education data cited in the report, just over a fifth of 17-year-olds said they read almost every day for fun in 2004, down from nearly a third in 1984. Nineteen percent of 17-year-olds said they never or hardly ever read for fun in 2004, up from 9 percent in 1984. (It was unclear whether they thought of what they did on the Internet as ''reading.'') 
 ''Whatever the benefits of newer electronic media,'' Dana Gioia, the chairman of the N.E.A., wrote in the report's introduction, ''they provide no measurable substitute for the intellectual and personal development initiated and sustained by frequent reading.''
 Children are clearly spending more time on the Internet. In a study of 2,032 representative 8- to 18-year-olds, the Kaiser Family Foundation found that nearly half used the Internet on a typical day in 2004, up from just under a quarter in 1999. The average time these children spent online on a typical day rose to one hour and 41 minutes in 2004, from 46 minutes in 1999. 
 The question of how to value different kinds of reading is complicated because people read for many reasons. There is the level required of daily life -- to follow the instructions in a manual or to analyze a mortgage contract. Then there is a more sophisticated level that opens the doors to elite education and professions. And, of course, people read for entertainment, as well as for intellectual or emotional rewards. 
 It is perhaps that final purpose that book champions emphasize the most.
 ''Learning is not to be found on a printout,'' David McCullough, the Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer, said in a commencement address at Boston College in May. ''It's not on call at the touch of the finger. Learning is acquired mainly from books, and most readily from great books.''
 What's Best for Nadia?
 Deborah Konyk always believed it was essential for Nadia and her 8-year-old sister, Yashca, to read books. She regularly read aloud to the girls and took them to library story hours. 
 ''Reading opens up doors to places that you probably will never get to visit in your lifetime, to cultures, to worlds, to people,'' Ms. Konyk said. 
 Ms. Konyk, who took a part-time job at a dollar store chain a year and a half ago, said she did not have much time to read books herself. There are few books in the house. But after Yashca was born, Ms. Konyk spent the baby's nap time reading the Harry Potter novels to Nadia, and she regularly brought home new titles from the library. 
 Despite these efforts, Nadia never became a big reader. Instead, she became obsessed with Japanese anime cartoons on television and comics like ''Sailor Moon.'' Then, when she was in the sixth grade, the family bought its first computer. When a friend introduced Nadia to fanfiction.net, she turned off the television and started reading online.
 Now she regularly reads stories that run as long as 45 Web pages. Many of them have elliptical plots and are sprinkled with spelling and grammatical errors. One of her recent favorites was ''My absolutely, perfect normal life ... ARE YOU CRAZY? NOT!,'' a story based on the anime series ''Beyblade.'' 
 In one scene the narrator, Aries, hitches a ride with some masked men and one of them pulls a knife on her. ''Just then I notice (Like finally) something sharp right in front of me,'' Aries writes. ''I gladly took it just like that until something terrible happen ....'' 
 Nadia said she preferred reading stories online because ''you could add your own character and twist it the way you want it to be.'' 
 ''So like in the book somebody could die,'' she continued, ''but you could make it so that person doesn't die or make it so like somebody else dies who you don't like.'' 
 Nadia also writes her own stories. She posted ''Dieing Isn't Always Bad,'' about a girl who comes back to life as half cat, half human, on both fanfiction.net and quizilla.com. 
 Nadia said she wanted to major in English at college and someday hopes to be published. She does not see a problem with reading few books. ''No one's ever said you should read more books to get into college,'' she said. 
 The simplest argument for why children should read in their leisure time is that it makes them better readers. According to federal statistics, students who say they read for fun once a day score significantly higher on reading tests than those who say they never do. 
 Reading skills are also valued by employers. A 2006 survey by the Conference Board, which conducts research for business leaders, found that nearly 90 percent of employers rated ''reading comprehension'' as ''very important'' for workers with bachelor's degrees. Department of Education statistics also show that those who score higher on reading tests tend to earn higher incomes.
 Critics of reading on the Internet say they see no evidence that increased Web activity improves reading achievement. ''What we are losing in this country and presumably around the world is the sustained, focused, linear attention developed by reading,'' said Mr. Gioia of the N.E.A. ''I would believe people who tell me that the Internet develops reading if I did not see such a universal decline in reading ability and reading comprehension on virtually all tests.''
 Nicholas Carr sounded a similar note in ''Is Google Making Us Stupid?'' in the current issue of the Atlantic magazine. Warning that the Web was changing the way he -- and others -- think, he suggested that the effects of Internet reading extended beyond the falling test scores of adolescence. ''What the Net seems to be doing is chipping away my capacity for concentration and contemplation,'' he wrote, confessing that he now found it difficult to read long books. 
 Literacy specialists are just beginning to investigate how reading on the Internet affects reading skills. A recent study of more than 700 low-income, mostly Hispanic and black sixth through 10th graders in Detroit found that those students read more on the Web than in any other medium, though they also read books. The only kind of reading that related to higher academic performance was frequent novel reading, which predicted better grades in English class and higher overall grade point averages. 
 Elizabeth Birr Moje, a professor at the University of Michigan who led the study, said novel reading was similar to what schools demand already. But on the Internet, she said, students are developing new reading skills that are neither taught nor evaluated in school.
 One early study showed that giving home Internet access to low-income students appeared to improve standardized reading test scores and school grades. ''These were kids who would typically not be reading in their free time,'' said Linda A. Jackson, a psychology professor at Michigan State who led the research. ''Once they're on the Internet, they're reading.'' 
 Neurological studies show that learning to read changes the brain's circuitry. Scientists speculate that reading on the Internet may also affect the brain's hard wiring in a way that is different from book reading. 
 ''The question is, does it change your brain in some beneficial way?'' said Guinevere F. Eden, director of the Center for the Study of Learning at Georgetown University. ''The brain is malleable and adapts to its environment. Whatever the pressures are on us to succeed, our brain will try and deal with it.''
 Some scientists worry that the fractured experience typical of the Internet could rob developing readers of crucial skills. ''Reading a book, and taking the time to ruminate and make inferences and engage the imaginational processing, is more cognitively enriching, without doubt, than the short little bits that you might get if you're into the 30-second digital mode,'' said Ken Pugh, a cognitive neuroscientist at Yale who has studied brain scans of children reading.
 But This Is Reading Too
 Web proponents believe that strong readers on the Web may eventually surpass those who rely on books. Reading five Web sites, an op-ed article and a blog post or two, experts say, can be more enriching than reading one book.
 ''It takes a long time to read a 400-page book,'' said Mr. Spiro of Michigan State. ''In a tenth of the time,'' he said, the Internet allows a reader to ''cover a lot more of the topic from different points of view.''
 Zachary Sims, the Old Greenwich, Conn., teenager, often stays awake until 2 or 3 in the morning reading articles about technology or politics -- his current passions -- on up to 100 Web sites. 
 ''On the Internet, you can hear from a bunch of people,'' said Zachary, who will attend Columbia University this fall. ''They may not be pedigreed academics. They may be someone in their shed with a conspiracy theory. But you would weigh that.'' 
 Though he also likes to read books (earlier this year he finished, and loved, ''The Fountainhead'' by Ayn Rand), Zachary craves interaction with fellow readers on the Internet. ''The Web is more about a conversation,'' he said. ''Books are more one-way.'' 
 The kinds of skills Zachary has developed -- locating information quickly and accurately, corroborating findings on multiple sites -- may seem obvious to heavy Web users. But the skills can be cognitively demanding. 
 Web readers are persistently weak at judging whether information is trustworthy. In one study, Donald J. Leu, who researches literacy and technology at the University of Connecticut, asked 48 students to look at a spoof Web site (http://zapatopi.net/treeoctopus/) about a mythical species known as the ''Pacific Northwest tree octopus.'' Nearly 90 percent of them missed the joke and deemed the site a reliable source.
 Some literacy experts say that reading itself should be redefined. Interpreting videos or pictures, they say, may be as important a skill as analyzing a novel or a poem.
 ''Kids are using sound and images so they have a world of ideas to put together that aren't necessarily language oriented,'' said Donna E. Alvermann, a professor of language and literacy education at the University of Georgia. ''Books aren't out of the picture, but they're only one way of experiencing information in the world today.''
 A Lifelong Struggle
 In the case of Hunter Gaudet, the Internet has helped him feel more comfortable with a new kind of reading. A varsity lacrosse player in Somers, Conn., Hunter has struggled most of his life to read. After learning he was dyslexic in the second grade, he was placed in special education classes and a tutor came to his home three hours a week. When he entered high school, he dropped the special education classes, but he still reads books only when forced, he said. 
 In a book, ''they go through a lot of details that aren't really needed,'' Hunter said. ''Online just gives you what you need, nothing more or less.'' 
 When researching the 19th-century Chief Justice Roger B. Taney for one class, he typed Taney's name into Google and scanned the Wikipedia entry and other biographical sites. Instead of reading an entire page, he would type in a search word like ''college'' to find Taney's alma mater, assembling his information nugget by nugget.
 Experts on reading difficulties suggest that for struggling readers, the Web may be a better way to glean information. ''When you read online there are always graphics,'' said Sally Shaywitz, the author of ''Overcoming Dyslexia'' and a Yale professor. ''I think it's just more comfortable and -- I hate to say easier -- but it more meets the needs of somebody who might not be a fluent reader.''
 Karen Gaudet, Hunter's mother, a regional manager for a retail chain who said she read two or three business books a week, hopes Hunter will eventually discover a love for books. But she is confident that he has the reading skills he needs to succeed. 
 ''Based on where technology is going and the world is going,'' she said, ''he's going to be able to leverage it.''
 When he was in seventh grade, Hunter was one of 89 students who participated in a study comparing performance on traditional state reading tests with a specially designed Internet reading test. Hunter, who scored in the lowest 10 percent on the traditional test, spent 12 weeks learning how to use the Web for a science class before taking the Internet test. It was composed of three sets of directions asking the students to search for information online, determine which sites were reliable and explain their reasoning.
 Hunter scored in the top quartile. In fact, about a third of the students in the study, led by Professor Leu, scored below average on traditional reading tests but did well on the Internet assessment.
 The Testing Debate
 To date, there have been few large-scale appraisals of Web skills. The Educational Testing Service, which administers the SAT, has developed a digital literacy test known as iSkills that requires students to solve informational problems by searching for answers on the Web. About 80 colleges and a handful of high schools have administered the test so far.
 But according to Stephen Denis, product manager at ETS, of the more than 20,000 students who have taken the iSkills test since 2006, only 39 percent of four-year college freshmen achieved a score that represented ''core functional levels'' in Internet literacy. 
 Now some literacy experts want the federal tests known as the nation's report card to include a digital reading component. So far, the traditionalists have held sway: The next round, to be administered to fourth and eighth graders in 2009, will test only print reading comprehension. 
 Mary Crovo of the National Assessment Governing Board, which creates policies for the national tests, said several members of a committee that sets guidelines for the reading tests believed large numbers of low-income and rural students might not have regular Internet access, rendering measurements of their online skills unfair.
 Some simply argue that reading on the Internet is not something that needs to be tested -- or taught. 
 ''Nobody has taught a single kid to text message,'' said Carol Jago of the National Council of Teachers of English and a member of the testing guidelines committee. ''Kids are smart. When they want to do something, schools don't have to get involved.'' 
 Michael L. Kamil, a professor of education at Stanford who lobbied for an Internet component as chairman of the reading test guidelines committee, disagreed. Students ''are going to grow up having to be highly competent on the Internet,'' he said. ''There's no reason to make them discover how to be highly competent if we can teach them.''
 The United States is diverging from the policies of some other countries. Next year, for the first time, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which administers reading, math and science tests to a sample of 15-year-old students in more than 50 countries, will add an electronic reading component. The United States, among other countries, will not participate. A spokeswoman for the Institute of Education Sciences, the research arm of the Department of Education, said an additional test would overburden schools. 
 Even those who are most concerned about the preservation of books acknowledge that children need a range of reading experiences. ''Some of it is the informal reading they get in e-mails or on Web sites,'' said Gay Ivey, a professor at James Madison University who focuses on adolescent literacy. ''I think they need it all.''
 Web junkies can occasionally be swept up in a book. After Nadia read Elie Wiesel's Holocaust memoir ''Night'' in her freshman English class, Ms. Konyk brought home another Holocaust memoir, ''I Have Lived a Thousand Years,'' by Livia Bitton-Jackson. 
 Nadia was riveted by heartbreaking details of life in the concentration camps. ''I was trying to imagine this and I was like, I can't do this,'' she said. ''It was just so -- wow.'' 
 Hoping to keep up the momentum, Ms. Konyk brought home another book, ''Silverboy,'' a fantasy novel. Nadia made it through one chapter before she got engrossed in the Internet fan fiction again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Simses of Old Greenwich, Conn., gather to read after dinner. Their means of text delivery is divided by generation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
A NEW GENERATION: Nadia Konyk, top, 15, has a small book collection, above, but prefers reading online. Zachary Sims, left, 18, likes finding different points of view and interacting with other readers online. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK) (pg.A16)
 WORDS AND PICTURES: Hunter Gaudet, above, 16, is more comfortable reading on a computer. Left, Deborah and Yashca Konyk with a drawing by Yashca. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) CHART: THE NEW READERS: Some researchers believe that online reading builds on traditional reading skills and also requires new ones, like the ability to navigate the Web and to synthesize information in many different forms. (Source: New Literacies Research Lab at the University of Connecticut) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); DYSLEXIA (75%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (59%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TEACHERS OF ENGLISH (54%); INTERNATIONAL READING ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



675 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Commute

BYLINE: By MARY JO PATTERSON

 BODY:
Rosalyn Johnson, a registered nurse from Westbury, is so convinced high gasoline prices are here to stay that she recently opted to take a job in Manhattan over one in Central Islip, closer to home.
 ''It was more economical to take the job in the city,'' she said, while waiting for an eastbound Long Island Rail Road train at Pennsylvania Station. ''It would cost me more to drive to Central Islip than to buy a $211 monthly train pass.''
 Ms. Johnson said she has scaled back use of her car and is sensitive to wasting fuel. The other night she was running her car engine at idle while dropping off some friends who were slow to say their goodbyes. ''I kept saying, '$4.29 a gallon, $4.29 a gallon, $4.29 a gallon,' '' she said. 
 She is among the thousands of people across the metropolitan area who are changing their commuting habits, according to data gathered from public transportation agencies. Even though the number of riders generally declines during the summer vacation months, the figures show weekday ridership has increased by about 5 percent over all since Jan. 1, while bridge and tunnel traffic has decreased by 4 to 5 percent. 
 In areas not well served by mass transit, demand for car pools, van pools, shuttles and park-and-ride lots has soared and is still building, according to transportation agencies that provide the services. Some transit operators are even recording significantly increased ridership on weekends this summer. New Jersey Transit trains had a record number of riders on Saturday, July 12, for example, when a free Bon Jovi concert was held in Central Park and the Mets played at home.
 No one can say for sure what is propelling the trend, but with gasoline costing $4 a gallon or more, the answer would seem to be a no-brainer. 
 ''There's no question we're gaining some ridership out of the high prices,'' said Helena E. Williams, president of the L.I.R.R. The L.I.R.R. carried 4.6 percent more passengers from January to May of this year than during the same period in 2007. ''What's significant is that we are seeing this increase despite a fare increase in March and falloff in employment growth.''
 Transit managers say they are bracing for September, when vacationing commuters return in full force, especially on the already-jammed PATH lines, the New Haven Line of Metro-North and the stretch of rail between Penn Station in Newark and Penn Station in New York. ''We have already taken up every train slot available during the peak hour into Manhattan,'' said Richard R. Sarles, executive director of New Jersey Transit, which shares those rails with Amtrak. ''The trains are as long as possible.''
 To people like Ken Brettschneider, 59, a lighting consultant from Mount Kisco, N.Y., the crush is already obvious. 
 ''Suddenly, there's more and more people,'' he said one morning recently while waiting for a train on Metro-North's Hudson Line. ''I find parking lots more crowded. Seats are getting harder to come by.''
 No one expects the trend to buckle. In the meantime, the average regular-grade gasoline price nationwide, about $4.10 a gallon on June 30, is projected to remain more than $4 until the fourth quarter of 2009, according to the federal Energy Information Administration.
 Even if gasoline prices fall, commuters are unlikely to return to their cars, said Virginia Miller, spokeswoman for the American Public Transportation Association. In the summer of 2006 gasoline prices hit $3 a gallon and mass transit use surged, she said. When fuel prices later retreated, ''people could have easily gone back to their cars, but they didn't,'' she said. ''It was as if they had made a new habit.'' 
 Heather Moore, 36, a claims supervisor from Lake Hopatcong, N.J., jumped from road to rail in January when New Jersey Transit opened a new station in Mount Arlington near her home. Her company, Maersk Inc. in Madison, pays $115 of her monthly train ticket, leaving her with a balance of $39. Station parking is free, as is a shuttle that transports her to work. ''I wouldn't drive anymore,'' she said while waiting for a train at Convent Station. ''My ride was the worst you can find -- 287 to 80 to 15.''
 Michele Martin, 49, a new train commuter in Connecticut, also doubted she would ever go back to driving. In May the Stamford resident ditched her 10-mile car commute to Greenwich in favor of riding Metro-North. Gasoline prices were the main reason, she said, but not the only one.
 ''There was a billboard energy campaign by the governor, Jodi Rell,'' she said. ''I would see a billboard once in a while saying, 'Do one thing.' That cinched it for me.''
 The adjustment took Ms. Martin, a reference librarian at the Greenwich Library, about a week. First she familiarized herself with a shuttle that runs between her apartment building and the Stamford train station, actually meant to serve her building's commercial tenants. It runs every 15 minutes. Then she grew accustomed to the Metro-North train's mysterious ways, she said, learning that the 8:18 a.m. really arrives around 8:21. These days she grabs the shuttle at 8:05 a.m., catches the 8:18 train, arrives in Greenwich at 8:35, and closes the gap to the library with a 15-minute walk. 
 Her new commute is 10 minutes longer, but costs only $4 a day. It has reduced her gasoline expenses by two-thirds. As for the driving, Ms. Martin said there was nothing to miss. ''Being in the car was kind of lonely,'' she said.
 Many people said they would love to take a train or bus to work, but weren't served by a convenient connection.
 Some of them have figured out ingenious solutions. Take Rosalind Jordan, who organized a 12-person van pool this spring that cut her monthly commuting cost to $39 from $259. She lives in Iselin, N.J., and works at the BASF Corporation in Florham Park, a distance of about 30 miles. Until April she car-pooled with a colleague and shared expenses. Still, ''the cost of gas was killing us,'' she said. ''It had gotten to the point where something had to give.''
 Mrs. Jordan, a customer care representative, knew of one van pool that traveled from Pennsylvania to BASF in Florham Park. She inquired at work, and was directed to TransOptions, a nonprofit transportation management association in Cedar Knolls, N.J. It works with employers to assist workers looking to cut commuting costs.
 She posted notices at work, asking if anyone was interested in van-pooling from Iselin to Florham Park. 
 ''Immediately, I got a good six solid passengers,'' she said. ''We needed 12. I started talking it up. Everybody was like, 'I'm in.' '' 
 Eight of the 12 agreed to serve as drivers on weekly shifts. ''Not everybody has to drive,'' she said. ''Some are scary-type drivers, and they don't want to.'' 
 Mrs. Jordan gamely volunteered to be the first. ''Everybody was a little afraid to drive,'' she said. ''I got in there and said, 'Let's go!' When the others saw me doing it, they knew they could do it, too.''
 After four months, the van pool has evolved into a reliable operation, with few rules. The van departs at 7:05 a.m. sharp, although the drivers are willing to cut a little slack for the passenger who lives off Exit 5 of the New Jersey Turnpike.
 ''There are some conversations about what's going on in the world, a couple laughs, and then everyone gets quiet,'' Mrs. Jordan said. ''The atmosphere is good. And the economics are just phenomenal.''
 Other suburban dwellers, like Jane Gross, of Oceanside, are fighting the expense of commuting by downsizing their cars. Mrs. Gross, 59, a human resources manager, commutes 25 miles one way from her home in Nassau County to her office in Melville in Suffolk County. She said she would love to take the train, but has no convenient connection.
 In the spring Mrs. Gross listened, horrified, as people predicted the price of a gallon of gasoline would go up to $5. Although 12 payments remained on her Honda CR-V, she decided to buy a smaller car. In May she placed an order for a fuel-efficient Smart car. 
 ''My monthly gas costs will go down from $250 to $100, but they're so backlogged I won't get it until January,'' she said recently, waiting for an L.I.R.R. train home from a day in Manhattan.
 Her husband, John Gross, an auto body specialist who works a few miles from home, has taken things even further, she said.
 ''He's walking back and forth to work on certain days of the week, except when it's raining,'' she said. ''He had a knee replacement May 6 and started walking as therapy. Then he realized it was saving him a lot of money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ELBOW TO ELBOW: L.I.R.R. commuters await rush-hour trains at Penn Station. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI1)
 RAIL CONNECTION: Commuters on the Long Island Rail Road waiting for their trains at Pennsylvania Station during the evening rush hour. For many, it has become more economical to take the train. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CITIES (77%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); TRENDS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (51%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



676 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ECONOMY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: State Analysts Predict A Shallow Recession

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK 

 BODY:
 THE price of existing housing in New Jersey will drop an additional 12 percent to 15 percent during the next 12 months and remain flat through 2010, financial analysts said at a conference at Rutgers University earlier this month.
 The good news is this is a relatively modest adjustment to what had been an overheated market, and it improves affordability of houses for many buyers, said Patrick O'Keefe, director of research at the accounting and consulting firm of J.H. Cohn in Roseland. And it is nowhere near as painful as the waves of foreclosures that are destroying family finances in states like California and Florida.
 Mr. O'Keefe's remarks came in the context of an economic report for the state presented at the conference. Produced by the Rutgers Economic Advisory Service and written by its director, Nancy Mantell, the outlook predicts a shallow recession that will last a little more than two years and cut 31,000 jobs from the employment peak of 4.08 million jobs set near the end of 2007. 
 New Jersey may be spared the sharper economic declines that could occur in other states, the report says, because there was relatively little speculative building during the real estate boom and not as much use of subprime lending to finance purchases.
 The report predicts that the state's economy will bottom out in early 2010 and resume growth through 2018 with employment increasing modestly, at an average 0.7 percent a year.
 ''We expect further job losses here for the next two years,'' Ms. Mantell said, ''but we anticipate adding 250,000 jobs over the next 10 years.''
 In the last year, nearly 80 percent of the state's new jobs were in service sector areas like education, health care, leisure and hospitality. Major job losses were in manufacturing and finance, the latter a direct result of a general softening of the housing market.
 ''Manufacturing and finance will continue to lose jobs, though more slowly than in the recent past, and employment in the information industry will decline as well,'' Ms. Mantell said. ''The cyclical nature of the construction industry will leave it with almost no net job change.'' 
 One of the few nonservice parts of the state's economy where jobs are likely to be added is transportation and warehousing. And that shift may be attributable to high fuel prices, said James W. Hughes, dean of the university's Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy.
 Increasingly, cargoes landing at the ports in Newark and Elizabeth are being shipped to warehouses in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley, where land and labor costs are lower than in New Jersey, he said.
 Meanwhile, space in buildings along the Turnpike's midsection at Exits 7A and 8A -- half that distance from the port -- is going begging. With higher fuel prices the longer trips could become increasingly uneconomical. 
 ''With diesel fuel at $5 a gallon, the situation may change,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''In the long run, you cannot change geography.''
 Despite the slump in housing prices, the fundamental factors that drive demand for housing are positive, Mr. O'Keefe said, pointing out that the state's population is growing and people need somewhere to live. 
 The state added 254,000 residents between 2000 and 2007. According to the report, 629,000 more people will make the state their home in the next 10 years, pushing the total to more than 9 million by 2013. 
 Employment is expected to grow, albeit slowly.
 New Jersey residents' income has grown and is expected to continue to do so. It rose by what the report termed an ''extraordinary'' 7.4 percent in 2006, before falling to 5.4 percent the following year. The recession in the state will cut income growth to 4 percent for the next two years before resuming at an average rate of 5 percent for the remainder of the forecast.
 With the frenzy for single-family homes abated for now, Mr. O'Keefe noted that other trends have started to emerge. Multifamily housing in older, urban areas is increasing while restrictions on developing the dwindling stock of open land are limiting classic suburban development.
 Mr. O'Keefe said that through May of this year, 40.1 percent of all building permits in the state were issued in Hudson, Essex and Bergen Counties and 80.1 percent of them were for multifamily buildings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FORECAST Patrick O'Keefe reports on trends in the state's housing market. (PHOTOGRAPH AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FORECLOSURE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



677 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Finding and Fixing A Home's Power Hogs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FITZGERALD. 
Michael Fitzgerald writes about business, technology and culture. E-mail: mfitz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHILE we all worry about where we're going to get more energy in an increasingly energy-obsessed world, there's also another alternative: Use less power. That may soon be simpler, thanks to the introduction of a bevy of inexpensive devices that let homeowners monitor how much energy appliances, TVs, PCs, and heating and cooling systems actually use.
 Even energy-conscious people can go only so far in managing their home energy use. Sure, we can fiddle with our thermostats, shun incandescent light bulbs and bring in Energy Star appliances. Watching that new L.C.D. TV, however, might wipe out all those gains. 
 But we just don't know. 
 ''We have all the technology we want in our cellphones and plasma TVs and cars, but in electricity we're still like our grandparents were,'' says Ahmad Faruqui, an economist at the Brattle Group, a consultancy based in Cambridge, Mass.
 Possibly coming to the rescue are home automation networks, which can help monitor all of our power-sucking devices (the typical American household has 27 that are always on, according to the Electric Power Research Institute, an energy research and consulting firm).
 Some analysts expect so-called ''smart metering'' to boom nationwide. ABI Research, a technology firm, estimates that the market will jump to 52 million by 2013, from 560,000 this year -- which would be more than a third of the nation's meters. 
 Good home automation networks, which run all of the electronic and technologic gizmos in a home, have traditionally cost more than $30,000. Now, thanks in part to companies like Control4 and Colorado vNet, these systems can be had for as little as $5,000, says Sam Lucero, an ABI analyst. 
 Prices are expected to drop further. Will West, chief executive of Control4 in Salt Lake City, says that in October his firm will start selling a controller for $495, down from $695. 
 With such a network, ''you can turn on your TV and see what your energy use has been like in the last few months, or compare your behavior to other people in your area,'' Mr. West says. Consumers can also receive automated tips on how to save money on energy, based on their prior energy use and historical weather patterns. Then, by clicking a button on a screen -- either the TV or a computer -- they can act on those tips. 
 Power companies themselves also don't know how much energy individual household devices use. But that information void is also poised to close, as inexpensive, standards-based technologies create a ''smart'' power grid that the companies -- and consumers -- can use to monitor home usage. 
 Among the technologies adding brainpower to the grid are nascent wireless protocols like ZigBee; Z-Wave from Zensys; and Echelon's LonWorks, which tracks power use not only wirelessly but also over power lines. 
 ZigBee is on the verge of becoming the Wi-Fi of home power management, thanks to its inclusion in smart electric meters. But multiple wireless control technologies may coexist, as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth do. For both consumers and utilities, it's like ''going from an odometer to a speedometer,'' says Paul De Martini, vice president of Edison SmartConnect, Southern California Edison's next-generation metering project. It intends to introduce smart meters to its 5.3 million customers by 2012. This project is expected to help reduce peak power demand by 5 percent -- about the output of an 1,100-megawatt power plant -- and overall demand by 1 percent. That would cut carbon dioxide emissions as much as taking 79,000 cars off the road, Mr. De Martini says. 
 In 2005, when Southern California Edison developed a plan for smart meters, it would have lost a billion dollars on the project. Today, under a proposal on which the California Public Utilities Commission is expected to rule in August, Edison thinks it will at least break even on smart meters. 
 In power emergencies, such meters could allow the utility to automatically reduce energy demand to help avoid power failures. 
 Smart meters also would allow for tiered pricing, in which customers would pay more for power during high-use times and less during off-peak hours. Large companies have had such pricing for years. 
 Despite such momentum, utilities can't just change direction the way many Internet companies do, cautions Bill Ablondi, director of home systems at Parks Associates, a market consultant based in Dallas. Mr. Ablondi doubts regulators and utilities will rapidly adopt smart grid technologies. 
 ''The technology is here, but I think we're looking at more like a 10-year horizon,'' he says.
 FOR a planet plagued by rising energy prices and rising temperatures, better energy management has gigantic potential. The McKinsey Global Institute, the economics research arm of McKinsey & Company, projects that aggressive investment in energy management could keep demand nearly flat between now and 2020. 
 But to depress growth in energy use on that scale would require more than just smart grids and smart homes. Governments would have to take steps like developing rate structures that reward efficiency, not power production, and eliminating write-offs for energy use. It will take a huge investment, too -- McKinsey estimates $170 billion a year globally through 2020 (though it promises a 17 percent return on investment). 
 What smarter grids can do is help grease the rails of innovation for regulators and investors by showing just how much energy we waste, says Diana Farrell, director of the McKinsey Global Institute. The degree of waste, Ms. Farrell says, is so big that it makes investing in energy management look far more viable for fighting global warming than any alternative energy source. ''The demand side is the answer, right now, with commercially available technologies that are scalable,'' she says. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Settings in the home for appliances, lighting and temperature can be customized through simple interfaces that help save energy. Products from Colorado vNet, above, Echelon, left, and Control4, below. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY RESEARCH (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); BUILDING AUTOMATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (72%); WEATHER (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (67%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ELECTRIC POWER RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



678 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Putting the Dream Car Out to Pasture

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
JOHN FORSYTHE remembers the moment he knew the thrill was gone. It was six months ago, when a fill-up of his Toyota 4Runner topped $75, exceeding the pump's limit. He had to swipe his credit card twice.
 Mr. Forsythe had been deeply in love. He had custom-ordered the leather seats and the sound system for his S.U.V. and had waited three months for it in 2005, while living in San Antonio.
 ''This is the car that I always wanted to have,'' said Mr. Forsythe, 31, a software engineer. ''It was the car to have when you had reached a certain point in your life, when you were successful.''
 But Mr. Forsythe, who now lives in San Francisco, said he could not justify $1,000 a month for gas, insurance and a car payment. The vehicle that had been a source of pleasure now feels like a ball and chain. So, this month, his heart heavy with memories of ski weekends in Tahoe and other good times, Mr. Forsythe sold his dream car. ''The love affair is over,'' he said. ''I'm ready to let it go.'' 
 Americans' longtime romance with the automobile is being severely tested, and in some cases dashed entirely, now that every trip gives rise to worries about how much a fill-up costs, guilt over how much damage the exhaust is contributing to the destruction of the planet, and self-consciousness about the image a full-size behemoth conveys today about its driver.
 If an S.U.V. not long ago exuded affluence, toughness and the ability to mow down lesser vehicles in the way, the message it may send now is more humble: I can't afford a second car. I can't get out of my lease. I can't get rid of this because no one wants to buy it.
 News of wrenching dislocations in the car industry arrive daily: automobile sales are at a 10-year low. Ford is converting factories from making high-profit trucks to subcompacts like the unlovely Fiesta. General Motors is trying to convince investors that it is not at the precipice of bankruptcy.
 Beyond the bad economic news may lurk a less remarked shift in Americans' psyches: a change in the role the automobile occupies in people's emotional lives and self-image. For decades, automakers pitched cars as sex symbols, as extensions of drivers' freedom or affluence or eye for beauty. Even if that pitch is inverted -- if hybrids or minicars become the most desirable wheels, bespeaking a driver's thriftiness or environmental sensitivity -- is it really possible to be passionate about a compromise? 
 Can you love your Prius the way you once gave your heart to a 4Runner or a luxury sedan?
 Increasingly, for many, the question is moot.
 ''I'm willing to not love it,'' said Justin McCarthy, 43, a public relations executive from Long Beach, Calif., who is considering replacing his 10-year-old Volvo with a hybrid.
 Mr. McCarthy said he bought his Volvo for aesthetics and comfort. It was good for impressing and pampering clients and roomy for his growing family.
 But as he mulls a possible new purchase, he is keeping his emotions in check. ''Before it was, Is it a cool car?'' he said. ''Now it's, Is it going to be efficient and reliable transportation? Maybe it's also a function of age, but it doesn't have to fulfill anything in me, it just needs to be what it is: a mode of transportation.''
 Such attitudes are a far cry from the way Americans have approached their car buying in the past, researchers say. Buyers have put a high value on reliability, durability and fuel efficiency, of course, but just as important have been looks and luxury.
 ''What are the neighbors going to think when they see the car? Is it going to impress them?'' said Geoff Wardle, director of advanced mobility research at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif., which is known for its auto design program. ''When it comes to buying a car, people take leave of their senses.''
 For many drivers, their cars are an extension of themselves, displayed as fashion or an accessory.
 ''You wear your car like you wear a Ralph Lauren suit,'' said Clotaire Rapaille, an anthropologist and psychiatrist known as the car shrink, whose company, Archetype Discoveries Worldwide, studies consumer preferences.
 But today some of these fashion statements -- say, a Hummer -- would land on the worst-dressed list.
 Going green is climbing on the list of criteria for many consumers. Mary Conner, 52, vice president for merchandising for Gearys Beverly Hills, a jewelry and luxury gift store, has driven BMW convertibles for over 20 years. ''I love the car,'' she said. ''It's absolutely gorgeous.''
 But last month Ms. Conner put her BMW 330Ci convertible up for sale. She decided to hold on to the car she had originally bought for her two sons: a Mini Cooper, which gets twice the mileage per gallon.
 The car's smaller carbon footprint, not the price of gas, was Ms. Conner's prime motivator. Even in wealthy Beverly Hills, she said, large cars seem outnumbered these days by Minis, Smart cars, Priuses and even Vespa scooters. At Mercedes-Benz of Beverly Hills, the wait for the tiny Smart is about a year.
 ''There's a certain status that comes with a Jag or a BMW, but you really have to leave that at the door, the ego part,'' Ms. Conner said. ''My heart is going forward in a different way. I don't need a luxury car anymore.''
 But when asked how she felt about her Mini, Ms. Conner responded with all the enthusiasm of someone who settled. ''I like it,'' she said flatly. 
 In Gloversville, N.Y., another longtime BMW owner, Sam Hoye, switched to a Prius for his everyday car in September (he also owns a motorcycle and a truck for winter) for political reasons.
 ''I'm just trying to use less foreign oil,'' said Mr. Hoye, 44, a finance company owner. ''All that money is going out of the country, not to mention the price of gas. If everybody drove one it'd make a huge difference.''
 One nice surprise, he said: clients seem more receptive to him when he shows up in a hybrid than when he did in a luxury car.
 Michael A. Hammer, 52, a businessman and car collector in Beverly Hills, said his convertible Smart allows him to gauge public sentiment firsthand. Mr. Hammer, who owns more than 20 vintage and contemporary cars, said he gets the same reaction in the Smart as when he drives one of his 1950s models.
 ''People wave and give you the thumbs-up,'' he said. 
 But even as they compromise on size, some drivers are still spending lavishly on looks. Vinnie Mandzak, a brand manager at Mercedes-Benz of Beverly Hills, said customers are spending as much on customizing cars with metallic candy colors, leather interiors and ''goofy wheels'' as on the car itself. And at the higher income levels, he noted, no one is getting rid of their bigger cars.
 Not all automobile experts think a sea change has taken place. They maintain that Americans will always prefer big and showy automobiles if they can afford them. ''What doesn't change is the American psychology,'' Dr. Rapaille said. ''When do you have enough money? Never. When is your car big enough? Never. As soon as I have the money, I'm going to get a bigger car.''
 Other experts disagree, though, saying that global warming and high oil prices are not going to fade as issues driving Americans' purchasing choices. 
 ''The trick now for the car companies is to come up with cars that won't make people feel horrible about downsizing,'' said Mr. Wardle of the Art Center College of Design.
 The success of Zipcar, the car-sharing company that allows drivers to rent a vehicle locally by the hour, indicates that many drivers have come to view an automobile as an interchangeable commodity, like a refrigerator. Zipcar, which is popular on college campuses and in densely populated cities like New York, Boston and San Francisco, has 200,000 members in 26 states and is adding about 10,000 customers a month, it says. 
 Corinna Psomadakis, 22, an office manager for a Web site in San Francisco, is one. There was a time not long ago when young people like Ms. Psomadakis, who moved from Chicago after graduating from college a year ago, would have viewed buying their own car as a rite of passage. ''It seemed like kind of a milestone that I'd be in a place where I could buy a car,'' she said.
 But now she makes do by taking public transportation or cabs and renting a Zipcar a few times a month. She said she does not see herself as ever owning a car. Concern for the environment is a big factor.
 ''I used to leave notes on Hummers, how inconsiderate it was for the rest of us,'' she said.
 Now, she said, ''I do my part by not driving a car.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY ILLUSTRATION BY STEVE BROWN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BACKGROUND PHOTO BY DATACRAFT/GETTY IMAGES)
 LETTING GO: John Forsythe sold his S.U.V. to save money.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



679 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: No Free Bubble

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
The short take on the economic crisis of the 1970s was that regulation failed. Price controls failed; high taxes failed; regulation was outmoded.
 The mortgage and banking crisis of 2008 feels diametrically different. What failed this time were markets. The lenders who were supposed to regulate mortgage borrowing -- and the credit-rating firms who monitored them -- failed utterly. The investors whose job it was to monitor the capital of financial institutions were asleep at the switch. 
 It is not really that simple, because investors were encouraged by the creeping government doctrine of ''too big to fail.'' But if, after the '70s, the solutions in one way or another were about opening industry to the fresh breath of markets, today the remedies issue from Washington. It is quite possible that the great experiment in laissez-faire has, for this generation, run its course. 
 The Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury have lately widened the federal safety net more quickly and more aggressively than at any time since the New Deal era. Indeed, a recent front-page headline in this newspaper, ''Confidence Ebbs for Bank Sector and Stocks Fall,'' had distinctly Depression overtones. (You could almost envision the next line: ''Hoover Urges Calm.'') And not since the Depression (under the Reconstruction Finance Corporation) has the government bought significant equity in private firms, as the Treasury has sought the authority to do in the case of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. At least during the 1930s, legislation followed months of deliberation and public hearings. The proffered fixes to today's fast-moving crises are worked out hastily and in private. 
 At a visceral level, it is deeply upsetting when institutions that once reaped fabulous profits (a goodly share of which were snared by their executives) are granted the protection of Uncle Sam. Robert Rodriguez, the C.E.O. of First Pacific Advisors (which has a fund I'm invested in), confessed to a ''sickening'' feeling at the news that the Treasury might guarantee the debts of Fannie and Freddie. Rodriguez was one of the few fixed-income investors who, having noticed the bloated balance sheets of the mortgage giants, refused to buy their debt securities. Ordinarily, less prudent investors would have suffered a loss; instead, any pain will be borne by the taxpayers. 
 More troubling than the unfairness is the potential that the solutions will exacerbate moral hazard: that people who feel inoculated will run greater risks. As Rodriguez observed: ''Nobody wants to take the pain for excesses. Each time the problem gets bigger.'' 
 The entire U.S. policy of promoting homeownership, which during the boom raised the ownership rate from 64 percent to 69 percent, now looks to be a case study in unintended consequences. Encourage more housing than markets will support and you get -- voila! -- mortgages that fail. Fannie and Freddie were among the chief implements of the policy. Though judged by Standard & Poor's to be only a Double A-minus credit, they were able, thanks to the widely held belief (since validated) that the United States would not allow them to fail, to borrow at lower than Triple A rates. 
 As the balance sheets of the agencies swelled, they grabbed the profit margin that traditionally went to savings and loans. The thrifts complained, but they were no match for Fannie and Freddie's well-heeled lobbyists. And so housing was increasingly financed by lenders insensitive to market risk. 
 Recently, as mortgage companies began to fail, the U.S. encouraged Fannie and Freddie (which already owned or guaranteed $5 trillion in mortgages) to buy still more mortgages. This aggravated the problem. Since the agencies' capital was inadequate, they should have been reducing risk. 
 In a similar vein, federal regulators seized IndyMac, a Pasadena bank whose depositors had crowded the door demanding their money and which became the second-biggest bank failure ever. The head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation immediately announced that IndyMac would stop foreclosing on mortgages. No doubt this was pleasing to California homeowners, as well as to the 55 congressmen and senators who represent them (and who help to oversee the F.D.I.C.). But it amounted to yet another giant socialization of risk and to a dubious precedent.
 What if politically mindful regulators now lean on Freddie and Fannie to halt foreclosures? Exactly which losses are immunized and, just as important, who gets to decide? Similar questions have been raised by the Fed's various actions to protect Bear Stearns and other investment banks and their collective creditors. In the space of several months, a wide swath of American finance has ceased to operate under normal rules. 
 Fixes are being introduced, and the next administration will very likely initiate its own reforms. The Fed has tightened mortgage rules; higher capital requirements are coming. Also, better accounting and disclosure rules would help investors to understand the often-complex assets that banks own. 
 But there is a difference between increasing transparency, with regard to risk-taking, and underwriting losses. The government should get out of the business of assuming risk -- which hinders markets in a function they can handle better. With investors conditioned to look for rescues, it will not be easy to get the genie back in the bottle. A good first step would be to draw a bright line between Fannie and Freddie's outstanding obligations, which total $1.5 trillion, and the borrowings they undertake in the future as their current paper matures. Their current debt is presumably socialized. But if the Treasury were to announce that new obligations were not protected, markets would gradually force the beleaguered twins to both raise more capital and shrink their asset bases. The U.S. might even consider splintering the companies, AT&T style, into pieces. The goal should be to ensure not that they never fail, but that for Fannie and Freddie and for other institutions, failure reacquires its proper status in a capitalist society: that of a tolerable event. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN ULRICH)
 CHART: THE PURSUIT OF PROPERTY. Chart details Homeownership rates in the U.S. (Source: U.S. Census Chart by Charles M. Blow) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CASE STUDIES (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FIRST PACIFIC ADVISORS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



680 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Americans in Debt

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Given a Shovel, Digging Deeper Into Debt'' (''The Debt Trap'' series, front page, July 20) highlights a dangerous new pattern: as more Americans use credit cards to get by in the wake of $4 gasoline, subprime mortgages and stagnating wages, lenders hungry for revenues are increasing fees and interest rates, often forcing struggling families into bankruptcy. 
 Lenders should be discouraged from accelerating the spiral of debt with abusive rates and fees, and consumers need new leverage to demand reasonable terms. 
 Last week, we introduced the Consumer Credit Fairness Act, which puts creditors levying excessive charges at the back of the line when customers file for bankruptcy. It also exempts from the bankruptcy ''means test'' filers pushed over the edge by abusive rates. 
 If this bill is passed, as we hope, unscrupulous lenders will no longer be able to take such advantage of Diane McLeod, featured in your article, or others like her.
 Sheldon Whitehouse Dick Durbin Washington, July 22, 2008
 The writers, both Democrats, represent Rhode Island and Illinois, respectively, in the Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (50%); SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



681 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Quirks Add Uncertainty to Legislative Races

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 A BAD economy in an election year usually churns up voters looking for someone to blame. But Republican and Democratic state and local politicians in Connecticut say they are uncertain about who is going to suffer at the polls in November.
 The party in power is the traditional target of voters angry over economic woes. This year, that's where things get confusing for the state's political odds-makers. 
 Republicans have an unpopular lame-duck president in the White House, yet the popular governor sitting in Hartford is a Republican.
 At the national level, Democrats are sounding the ''time for a change'' theme, a message that doesn't work well for the state's Democratic lawmakers, who have controlled the State House and Senate for 32 of the past 34 years.
 The current Democratic edge in the State Senate is 23 to 13 and they hold a 107-to-44 ratio in the State House.
 At the Congressional level, Connecticut's four Democratic representatives may be finding themselves running hard against President Bush. In the Fourth Congressional District, the incumbent Chris Shays, a Republican, will be hoping to survive what many experts say is shaping up as a bad Republican year. 
 ''The lines of blame are so interspersed, cutting across parties, that it's going to be hard to assess who voters will be angry with,'' said Scott McLean, chairman of Quinnipiac University's political science department.
 Themis Klarides of Derby, the deputy State House Republican leader, agreed. ''It's a very complex situation in Connecticut,'' she said. The Democratic view from the office of Martin M. Looney of New Haven, the Senate majority leader, is equally murky. ''Obviously, things are moving in several directions at once,'' he said. ''I think it makes it more difficult to predict.''
 Gov. M. Jodi Rell's high favorability ratings (about 65 percent in the latest Quinnipiac University Poll) may do more to insulate her party's candidates if she is on the ballot. But she isn't up for re-election until 2010.
 And there is no other statewide candidate running in Connecticut in 2008, an oddity that happens only every 12 years as a result of the timing of gubernatorial and United States Senate terms.
 A byproduct of this quirk is that the names of candidates for state legislative races will be tucked under the presidential and Congressional ballot lines. Democratic leaders hope that's going to work to their advantage. They believe excitement over Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, will bring out many new pro-Democratic voters.
 The problem with that theory is that many of the voters who turn out in presidential election years -- often 20 percent more than in nonpresidential elections -- are primarily interested in national issues.
 ''The challenge is to connect with those voters who aren't tuned in to state and local issues,'' Senator Looney explained. 
 Republican leaders believe they can use the Democrats' national ''change'' theme against Democratic legislative candidates here in Connecticut.
 ''We Republicans absolutely agree -- we do need a change in this state,'' Ms. Klarides said. ''The change we need is getting more Republicans in the House and Senate.''
 Republican lawmakers are looking to use the state budget against Democrats and tout their proposal: to allow telecommuting for state workers to cut travel costs.
 Governor Rell agreed with Democrats that, because of the uncertain economy, no changes should be made in the two-year budget plan passed in 2007. Republican leaders argue that, despite the stand by their Republican governor, Democrats can be blamed for ''doing nothing'' in a time of crisis.
 On the telecommuting issue, which Democrats are playing down as an election-year gimmick, Republicans are getting support from the Connecticut State Employees Association. The usually pro-Democratic union has been critical of Democrats for opposing the Republicans on telecommuting.
 The State House majority leader, Christopher G. Donovan, a Meriden Democrat, pointed out that even Mrs. Rell didn't support an alternative budget proposed by Republican lawmakers. He also shrugged off the Republicans' attempt to make telecommuting their issue, noting that many Republican lawmakers have voted against similar proposals in the past.
 There is yet another element of uncertainty to this year's Connecticut legislative elections: the impact of the new public campaign finance law.
 The new system is designed to allow candidates to challenge incumbents on a more equal footing. Chris Healy, the state Republican chairman, believes that's likely to help Republican candidates. The sheer number of Democratic incumbents running for re-election gives Republicans a statistical edge, Mr. Healy argued. ''They have to defend more than we do,'' he said.
 He said the public campaign financing program could erase the financial advantage that Democratic incumbents usually enjoy because of their status as the majority party in the General Assembly.
 Mr. McLean said he doubted there would be much overall change in the state legislature in this election, in part because the incumbent re-election rate in the General Assembly is more than 90 percent.
 But no one is completely sure how all that voter discontent will play out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); M JODI RELL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



682 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer Dryer, Kurt Reisenberg

 BODY:
Jennifer G. Dryer, the daughter of Rhoda K. Dryer of White Plains and the late Howard L. Dryer, is to be married on Sunday in Mamaroneck, N.Y., to Kurt J. Reisenberg, a son of Kathleen P. Reisenberg and John R. Reisenberg of Lake Forest, Ill. Justice Joan B. Lefkowitz of the State Supreme Court in White Plains, will officiate at the Mamaroneck Beach and Yacht Club. 
 The bride and bridegroom, both 36, graduated magna cum laude from Brown, where they met. 
 Ms. Dryer is keeping her name. She is a yoga instructor at Sonic Yoga in Manhattan. She worked until last month at Robert F. Wagner Middle School in Manhattan; she was a literacy coach, helping English and humanities teachers develop their teaching skills. She received a master's degree in education from Columbia.
 Her mother owns Dryer, Dryer & Weinstock in New Rochelle, N.Y., an immigration law firm in which the bride's father was once a partner. The bride's father was also an arbitrator for the New York State Insurance Department. 
 The bridegroom is the executive director of the finance practice at the Corporate Executive Board Company, a business information services firm in Washington. His father owns Reisenberg & Associates, executive search consultants in Lake Forest. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA BERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); LAWYERS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); YOGA (69%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (64%); IMMIGRATION (52%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (51%)

COMPANY: CORPORATE EXECUTIVE BOARD CO (68%)

TICKER: CEB (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (68%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



683 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Metal Fatigue or Explosion Suspected on Qantas Jet

BYLINE: By TIM JOHNSTON and MICHELINE MAYNARD; Tim Johnston reported from Sydney, and Micheline Maynard from Detroit. Matthew L. Wald and Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia 

 BODY:
Australian and American investigators on Saturday were exploring the possibility that either an explosion in the cargo hold, possibly by oxygen canisters, or metal fatigue caused the fuselage of a Qantas Airlines passenger jet to burst open in flight, forcing an emergency landing. 
 During their first look inside the plane on Saturday, investigators discovered shards of oxygen bottles throughout the cargo hold and in the floor above, which is below the cabin, said one person with direct knowledge of the investigation who spoke on condition of anonymity. Investigators do not know if the oxygen canister caused the damage, but they theorize that it may have played a role, the person said. 
 ''The dangerous goods manifest is going to be very closely inspected to see if there was anything that might have caused the oxygen bottles to explode,'' the person said, adding that metal fatigue was also a possibility.
 An explosion caused by oxygen generators was blamed for the 1996 crash of a ValuJet plane in the Florida Everglades that killed all 110 people aboard. The generators, from three other planes, were stored in the cargo hold. ValuJet was grounded for more than two months after the crash, and the airline was fined $1.75 million, then a record.
 Metal fatigue was blamed when a gash opened in Aloha Airlines Flight 243 in 1988 in flight over Hawaii, causing a loss of cabin pressure. A chunk of the Boeing 737's roof and the cockpit door were blown out. One flight attendant was killed when she was swept out of the plane, and 65 passengers and crew members were hurt. The accident prompted the Federal Aviation Administration to inspect some Boeing 737's for cracks. 
 In the case of the Qantas jet, a hole the size of a car was found in a cargo area under the business class section of the cabin, officials said. The plane, a Boeing 747-400 operating as Qantas Flight 30 from Hong Kong to Melbourne, Australia, landed safely, and no one was hurt.
 Aviation experts said the hole might have appeared when a part of the plane meant to reduce wind resistance pulled away from the fuselage, although they cautioned that it was too soon to draw conclusions. In Washington, a senior counterterrorism official said that there was no indication of terrorism playing a role.
 The hole appeared to encompass a part of the plane called a fairing, which is meant to smooth out the surface of the fuselage and reduce drag. Fairings, which are installed on various parts of an aircraft, do not normally suffer metal fatigue, said Robert W. Mann Jr., an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y.
 That raised the question of whether the aircraft might have been damaged on the ground or from inside the cargo compartment, possibly when bags were being loaded, Mr. Mann said.
 The Daily Telegraph of Australia reported Saturday that a great deal of corrosion had been found in a recent inspection of that hold, but safety experts and airline officials debunked the report on Saturday.
 ''The particular incident of corrosion that was reported was found during a routine check in February of this year,'' Peter Gibson, spokesman for the Civil Aviation Safety Authority of Australia, said by telephone. ''The corrosion was very minor and was found in a seat track in economy class, so it is in a completely different part of the aircraft. That corrosion can in no way be connected to the accident.''
 Geoff Dixon, chief executive of Qantas, agreed with Mr. Gibson at a news conference on Saturday. 
 ''Our preliminary checks on this indicate that there was no corrosion anywhere near where this hole appeared,'' he said. ''This was a very, very serious incident. It was one that was handled exceedingly well by those in charge of the aircraft.''
 Investigators from the Australian Air Transport Safety Bureau were in place Saturday, Mr. Gibson said, and Boeing and the National Transportation Safety Board of the United States were sending teams to help. Under international treaty, the United States, as the country where the plane was built, will be an official participant in the investigation.
 Passengers described hearing a loud bang and seeing debris fly into the cabin. Oxygen masks dropped from the ceiling. 
 Cellphone video taken by one passenger, Rob Henshaw, that was widely distributed showed passengers sitting calmly and wearing their yellow masks.
 ''We were just about to have lunch -- the stewardesses had already put the food on our tables -- when there was a very sharp explosion sound and the plane lurched to the left and the wind and the decompression came on immediately,'' Mr. Henshaw said by telephone on Saturday. ''There was a bit of an initial feeling of panic, but that was allayed after it appeared there was some control over the plane.''
 The plane landed in Manila a little over an hour after it took off. After leaving the plane, he saw the hole for the first time.
 ''Seeing what we went through,'' Mr. Henshaw said, ''it was a miracle that we got down in one piece.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); TERRORISM (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); FINES & PENALTIES (51%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (59%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (74%) AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



684 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; POP QUIZ CHINA STUDIES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Descendants of the Dragons

BYLINE: By ORVILLE SCHELL. 
Orville Schell is director of the Asia Society Center on U.S.-China Relations and former dean of the Graduate School of Journalism, University of California, Berkeley. Andrew Smeall, Leah Thompson, Michael Zhao and John Delury contributed reporting.

 BODY:
China never ceases to interest, or to perplex. After a century and a half of reinventing itself, trying on various new modern guises, China has become a place with opposites often in jarring juxtapositions. Its economic boom, rapidly expanding middle class and high-gear global quest for resources and markets contrast sharply with the continuing authoritarianism of its official politics. What China will look like in a decade or so is hard to say, but wherever it is headed, it is going there with enormous energy. With demonstrations in ethnic Tibetan areas, an earthquake in Sichuan Province and the Summer Olympic Games about to open in Beijing, the world's fascination with China has only intensified. Below, 32 questions designed to shed some light.
 ORIGINS TO OLYMPICS 
 1. What is the origin of the name China?
 2. In imperial China, what did the dragon symbolize?
 3. The Forbidden City, in central Beijing, is the world's largest surviving palace complex. How many rooms does it have?
 4. The British gave Hong Kong back to China in 1997, after 155 years of colonial rule. How did they get control of it?
 5. In the mid-1800s, Hong Xiuquan sought to overthrow the Qing Dynasty in a revolt that cost more than 20 million lives. Hong believed his mandate to rule stemmed from his relation to which holy figure?
 6. With the Communist Party takeover in 1949, the seat of government moved to Beijing (literally ''northern capital'') from which southern city?
 7. The People's Liberation Army occupied Tibet in the early 1950s, ushering in the incorporation of Tibetans into the People's Republic of China. Which future national leader commanded the military units?
 8. Name the Wellesley graduate who married a Chinese leader, became an important player in World War II politics and died in New York City in 2003 at age 105.
 9. How many times was Mao married?
 10. Which of the following was not one of the ''five black categories'' purged during the Cultural Revolution?
 a. Landlords
 b. Rich farmers
 c. Counterrevolutionaries
 d. Bad elements
 e. Criminals
 f. Right-wingers
 11. American news organizations were first allowed to establish resident bureaus in Beijing with the normalization of relations with China. What year?
 12. How many people were killed after the 1989 pro-democracy demonstrations at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, according to the Chinese government?
 13. Which of these official posts did Deng Xiaoping hold at the time of his death?
 a. Secretary general, Communist Party
 b. Chairman, China Bridge Association
 c. President, People's Republic of China
 d. Premier
 14. According to a posthumous assessment by the Communist Party, what percentage of Mao's policies while in office were judged ''correct''?
 15. Which of these rights are guaranteed by China's current constitution?
 a. Right to vote
 b. Freedom of speech
 c. Freedom of the press
 d. Freedom of demon-
 stration
 e. Freedom of religious
 belief
 f. All of the above
 g. None of the above
 16. Why are the Olympic Games opening on Aug. 8, 2008, at 8:08:08 p.m.?
 17. Which Olympic events won China the most medals at the last Summer Games, in Athens? 
 THE PEOPLE
 18. According to current estimates, China has a fifth of the world's population. What percentage of the world's arable land does it have? 
 19. Nine cities in the United States have populations of more than one million. How many Chinese cities have at least one million?
 20. Tibetans get the headlines, but the Chinese government recognizes 54 other minorities, including Uighurs, Uzbeks and Mongolians. What percentage of the total population of China is ethnic Tibetan?
 21. Chinese people call them ''little emperors.'' To whom are they referring?
 22. By the end of 2007, the number of users of this technology in China exceeded 547 million. What is it? 
 23. Cole slaw never caught on in China. So KFC, which has more than 2,200 outlets there, offers other sides with its fried chicken. What are they?
 24. How many foreign films does the government allow in China each year?
 25. A Zeng Fanzhi painting that fetched $9.7 million, an auction record for a contemporary Chinese work, depicts eight masked figures wearing red neckerchiefs. What do they represent? 
 26. What was the most widely published book in China during the 20th century? 
 THE BOOM
 27. The United States growth rate was 2.2 percent last year. What was China's?
 28. The Hurun Report, which tracks the wealthy, counted three billionaires in China in 2004. How many in 2007?
 29. How much of China's energy comes from coal?
 30. The image is familiar: a bicycle-clogged street in Beijing. But things are changing. How many cars were produced each day in China last year? 
 31. What is the annual melt rate of the Tibetan Plateau glaciers that supply water to most of Asia's major river systems?
 32. How much of 2007's increase in global carbon emissions came from China?
 Answers are on Page 36.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 16, 2, 14, 3 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS
GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1966
 CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); OLYMPICS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (70%); EARTHQUAKES (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (64%); WORLD WAR II (64%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); SICHUAN, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (93%); TAIWAN (92%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



685 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: O'Malley and Kuhn Enter Hall, Forever Linked by Bold Moves

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

DATELINE: COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Bowie Kuhn cannot escape his enduring connection to Walter O'Malley as they enter the National Baseball Hall of Fame together on Sunday. But Kuhn, baseball's commissioner from 1969 to 1984, might not have minded bonding eternally with O'Malley, the Dodgers' savvy owner, who moved Dem Bums from Brooklyn to Los Angeles in 1958.
 Kuhn appreciated the style and shrewdness of the jowly, cigar-smoking O'Malley, the most powerful team executive of his time.
 ''He dominated others more skillfully than anyone I have ever seen,'' Kuhn wrote in ''Hardball,'' his 1987 autobiography. ''He was a maestro of human relations. If he had decided to be king of Ireland, the Emerald Isle would be a monarchy today -- and a profitable one at that.'' 
 But Kuhn stopped short of including himself among those who were dominated, writing that he was ''too mulish'' to be controlled by O'Malley.
 It is easier to make a case for O'Malley's Hall of Fame qualifications over Kuhn's, despite the loathing he still inspires among Brooklyn fans.
 O'Malley was the consummate politician who exploited his sport's manifest destiny, whether as a visionary or a business opportunist. But the patrician Kuhn often seemed buffeted and besieged by the gales of change, like the toppling of the reserve clause and free agency, which he said he thought would destroy baseball, and the angry labor wars in which he was outmaneuvered by Marvin Miller, who led the players union.
 Deliberations by the veterans committee that gave Kuhn 10 of its 12 votes proceeded without much debate, three members said, and focused on Kuhn's love of the game and self-appointed role as protector of its integrity.
 ''He was really for the fan,'' said Bill Giles, a part-owner of the Philadelphia Phillies, who, along with Bobby Brown, the former American League president, argued for Kuhn's inclusion in the Hall. ''Bowie kept saying, 'We have to keep the fans foremost in our thinking.' He honestly loved the game.''
 Giles said that Kuhn's hard-line stance on free agency did not come up in the discussions and that his relationship with Miller was barely noted.
 Another voter, Rick Hummel, a baseball writer for The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, said of Kuhn: ''I'm thinking his longevity through several labor crises was probably the key there. The conversations centered on his staying power.''
 A third voter, who asked that he not be identified because the conversations were private, added: ''What we heard from Bowie from the baseball people was what a great guy he was. The argument was he really cared about baseball and was trying to do his best.''
 Kuhn was the beneficiary of a committee composed of seven current and former baseball executives, three writers and two Hall of Fame players, Harmon Killebrew and Monte Irvin.
 The same committee rejected Miller.
 O'Malley's credentials were probably stronger than Kuhn's, even if the committee gave him one fewer vote. ''As long as Walter was around,'' said Giles, whose father, Warren, was the National League president from 1951 to 1969, ''he was by far the strongest and most outspoken owner, and he kind of led things.''
 O'Malley's son, Peter, said his father's influence on Kuhn and his predecessors, Gen. William Eckert and Ford Frick, and his fellow owners was overstated. But he said: ''He was prepared. He knew the issues. I don't know if anybody knew them as well, and he knew what he thought was the right way to proceed and how best to advocate them.''
 O'Malley's move to Los Angeles -- five years after Lou Perini relocated the Braves to Milwaukee from Boston -- secured California as a major league state, and he persuaded the Giants to follow him from New York. Perhaps another owner would have recognized the opportunity, but O'Malley seized the opening. (Kuhn called it a blunder by baseball, which, he wrote in his book, should have expanded to California, not let popular teams shift there.)
 O'Malley built Dodger Stadium with his own cash and developed a profitable, much-admired baseball organization. His Dodgers went west and set major league attendance records in Chavez Ravine.
 ''He had this ambition to match the Yankees' professionalism,'' said Michael D'Antonio, the author of ''The O'Malley,'' a biography that is to be published next year. ''He believed that if you put a team on the field that could compete every year and you win enough so that it wasn't a surprise, you could make a lot of money and become a self-perpetuating system.'' 
 And while Branch Rickey is rightly credited with the signing of Jackie Robinson and other black players, D'Antonio said that it was all done under O'Malley's watch and continued after he executed a buyout of Rickey's share of the team in 1950.
 But whatever else O'Malley did, moving west is his legacy and his burden. His son said his father tried, as far back as 1946, to build a modern ballpark in Brooklyn; when that ambition was rebuffed, he would not accede to moving to Queens, the alternative pushed by the powerful Robert Moses.
 ''My dad's effort, for more than 10 years, was unprecedented,'' Peter O'Malley said. ''And finally, he said, 'I can't make it a go in Brooklyn.' '' 
 Kuhn came to prominence when he defended Major League Baseball in an antitrust suit filed by the State of Wisconsin to prevent the Braves' move to Atlanta. O'Malley would, years later, swing an American League vote Kuhn's way to quash the Dump Bowie movement and ensure his second term.
 Kuhn's reign was storm-tossed. He tried to stop free agency, starting with Curt Flood's challenge of the reserve clause, and was a central player in wrenching work stoppages. ''He had an opportunity to shepherd in a new epoch in labor relations, and in a much less contentious way,'' said Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College.
 Peter O'Malley, a pallbearer at Kuhn's funeral last year, said: ''In those days, I can't think of anyone who differed from Bowie. They all thought it would be economic ruin, and they were all mistaken.''
 Kuhn also exiled Willie Mays and Mickey Mantle from baseball for taking casino jobs, unpopular decisions that he said were necessary to protect baseball's integrity from gambling's taint. He voided the sales by the Oakland A's owner Charles O. Finley of Vida Blue to the Yankees and Rollie Fingers and Joe Rudi to the Red Sox as excessive. He demanded that Jim Bouton disavow the risque business he described in his book ''Ball Four,'' opposition that only made it sell more copies.
 He also suspended George Steinbrenner for making illegal contributions to Richard Nixon's 1972 presidential re-election campaign, and pitcher Denny McLain for past associations with gamblers.
 But attendance grew during his reign, baseball expanded to Canada and franchise values soared. Kuhn's introduction of night postseason games raised revenues from TV networks, but it created the indelible image of his refusing to wear a topcoat on a frigid night during the 1976 World Series. 
 And for years afterward, Hank Aaron resented that Kuhn was in Cleveland, not Atlanta, to watch Aaron swat his 715th home run on April 8, 1974. Kuhn had ordered the Braves to play Aaron in two of the three road games that opened the season -- again, to uphold the sport's integrity.
 Stephen Kuhn, one of his sons, said that criticism of his father was difficult on his family, noting, ''When I was a kid, he couldn't come to my Little League games.'' 
 Kuhn said that his father told him that he wanted his two terms to be remembered for ''opening Cooperstown to Negro league players because he so appreciated their accomplishments,'' and for ''increasing the international breadth of the game.''
 It might please Kuhn to know that when his Hall of Fame plaque is hung in its permanent place, it will sit right above O'Malley's.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley exploited baseball's manifest destiny by moving the franchise to Los Angeles in 1958, still angering the Brooklyn fans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIAN WASSER/TIME LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES)
Bowie Kuhn, the commissioner from 1969 to 1984, with Hank Aaron, above, and with Tug McGraw. Kuhn was absent when Aaron hit his 715th home run in 1974. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, FOCUS ON SPORT/GETTY IMAGES
 MLB PHOTOS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); WRITERS (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



686 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: A Souped-Up Model T May Have Been the First Mash-Up

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Thousands of people gathered last week in Richmond, Ind., for the centennial celebration of the Ford Model T, the machine that made the automobile a Main Street technology, with 15 million produced from 1908 to 1927. 
 As a product, the Model T has long been seen as a classic example of no-frills, mass-produced standardization. It had no gas gauge. Even a windshield was an extra-cost option originally.
 Yet the gathering in Indiana showed another facet of the Model T's history -- how much owners tinkered with and modified the car. Among the 800 vintage automobiles brought by collectors were ones that had been converted to snowmobiles, racing coups and tow trucks. That was only a glimmer of the many innovative changes made by Model T owners, for uses Henry Ford never had in mind. They transformed the cars into tractors, pickup trucks, paddy wagons, mobile lumber mills and power plants for milling grain. An itinerant preacher converted his into a four-wheeled chapel. 
 The early Model T hackers were really pioneers in a realm of creative activity that academics call ''user innovation.'' It has become subject of systematic study only in the last few years as researchers examine how this kind of individual endeavor works and try to assess its economic impact. 
 The approach is a break with the tradition of looking at companies, either large ones or start-up ventures, as the main engines of innovation in the economy. 
 ''Users, not producers, have the best information and their incentive is to build something better for their own use,'' said Eric von Hippel, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management. ''They don't need to focus on large markets like companies do. The result is that users invent a lot of what is really novel.''
 Inventive users are hardly new, as the Model T experience demonstrates. History abounds with proof. In the case of industrial products like scientific instruments, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, chemical processing equipment, research studies have found that more than half of the significant innovations have come not from manufacturers but from users, usually professionals.
 Enthusiasts have spurred progress in sports equipment used in mountain biking, rodeo kayaking, windsurfing and snowboarding. Skateboarding is a textbook case. From the earliest idea of clamping old steel skates to a piece of wood to the kicktail, the raised backend of a board needed for kick turns, the ideas came first from skateboarders themselves. Companies later commercialized the innovations.
 Computers have long been sandboxes for user innovation. The term ''hacking'' in the positive sense of users modifying a product or technology, either with permission or without, dates back to a group of playful students at M.I.T. in the late 1950s. In his 1984 book ''Hackers,'' Steven Levy described their notion of a hack as a feat ''imbued with innovation, style and technical virtuosity.'' 
 The recent attention given to user innovation is being fueled by the Internet. A global computing network makes it easier for users to share information and the Web is a medium of software -- a building material without material constraints, which lowers the barriers to innovation for users. Open-source software like the Linux operating system is built and maintained by interested users from around the world, linked by the Internet. Linus Torvalds wrote the kernel of the Linux operating system in 1991 as student at the University of Helsinki. The World Wide Web grew out of a program Tim Berners-Lee wrote for himself for storing personal information, which he called Enquire.
 New Web tools are making it far easier for people who are not skilled programmers to snap data sources with Web pages, like Lego blocks, to make ''mash-ups'' to, say, display available apartment rentals on maps or supply personalized local information to travelers. Some of the most popular Web sites, like Facebook, are vast social networks with personal description, pictures and video all supplied by the users -- ''user-generated content,'' as it is called.
 Researchers see a common thread from the Model T to mash-ups. ''This kind of user innovation has been widespread historically, but it is gaining speed and momentum because of the Internet,'' said Sonali Shah, an assistant professor at the University of Washington business school.
 The most successful incubators of user innovation, researchers say, combine fairly large numbers of users and a technology that has a modular or open design. Those design characteristics create a common workbench, or technology platform, for user innovators to tinker with and build on, whether Web software or an ''accidental platform'' like the Model T, noted Marco Iansiti, a professor at the Harvard Business School.
 The Model T, with its simple modular design, proved a malleable machine indeed. ''You could loosen a few bolts, take the body of the car off and turn it into just about anything you wanted,'' said Robert Casey, curator of transportation at the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village in Dearborn, Mich. ''For a lot of people, it became a platform for messing around, coming up with useful things and working out their creativity.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TINKERING An example of the malleable Ford Model T: a 1922 version of a snowmobile. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE COLLECTIONS OF THE HENRY FORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); EXTREME SPORTS (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (87%); SKATEBOARDING (84%); ELECTRONICS (77%); HISTORY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SAW MILLS (73%); POWER PLANTS (71%); STARTUPS (71%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (69%); CYCLING (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); WATER SPORTS (60%); SNOWBOARDING (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



687 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: Despite Rebel Losses, Cocaine Sustains War in Rural Colombia

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: PASTO, Colombia 

 BODY:
Along with Colombia's successes in fighting leftist rebels this year, cities like Medellin have staged remarkable recoveries. And in the upscale districts of Bogota, the capital, it is almost possible to forget that the country remains mired in a devilishly complex four-decade-old war. 
 But it is a different story in the mountains of the Narino department. Here, and elsewhere in large parts of the countryside, the violence and fear remain unrelenting, underscoring the difficulty of ending a war fueled by a drug trade that is proving immune to American-financed efforts to stop it. 
 Soaring coca cultivation, forced disappearances, assassinations, the displacement of families and the planting of land mines stubbornly persist, the hallmarks of a backlands conflict that threatens to drag on for years, even without the once spectacular actions of guerrillas in Colombia's large cities.
 For those caught in the cross-fire, talk of a possible endgame for the war seems decidedly premature, even given the deaths this year of several top guerrilla leaders, the desertion of hundreds of rebels each month and the rescue of prized hostages like the former presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt. 
 ''The armed groups are like malaria, evolving to resist eradication and killing with efficiency,'' Antonio Navarro Wolff, governor of Narino and a former guerrilla from the defunct M-19 group, said in an interview. ''If anything, Narino shows the guerrillas may have lost their chance for victory but not their ability to cause suffering.''
 Today, a dizzying array of armed groups lord over the farmlands of Narino. These include not only leftist guerrillas from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, but also right-wing militias operating under names like the Black Eagles or the Peasant Self-Defense Forces of Narino. 
 Their presence reflects the symbiotic nature of the armed groups and the drug trade, each drawing strength from the other. 
 In Narino, flanked by the Pacific Ocean on the west and Ecuador on the south, coca growers have nimbly sidestepped almost a decade of fumigation efforts by reorganizing industrial-size farms into smaller plots that are much harder to find and spray from the air. They are taxed and protected by forces on the various sides of the conflict.
 The United Nations reported in June that coca cultivation in Colombia surged 27 percent in 2007 to 244,634 acres, the first significant increase in four years. Narino had the largest increase of any Colombian department, an administrative district, up 30 percent to 50,061 acres. 
 The expansion has allowed Colombia to remain by far the world's largest coca producer and the supplier of 90 percent of the cocaine consumed in the United States. 
 It has also made the drug-fueled conflict a resilient virus in large pockets of the country, with double-digit increases in coca cultivation in at least three other departments, Putumayo, Meta and Antioquia. In Narino, almost every week, government officials, Roman Catholic leaders or aid workers report actions by the rebels or paramilitary groups. 
 In the last week of June, four schoolteachers in remote areas of the province were killed by a FARC column called Mariscal Sucre, one of three units of the FARC that are active in the area. The rebels claimed that the schoolteachers, all of them recently posted to remote schoolhouses by Roman Catholic officials, were army informants. 
 ''The guerrillas left the bodies of two of the teachers in front of their schoolhouses, preventing their families from giving them a Christian burial'' because the families were too afraid to collect the bodies, said Eduardo Munoz, human rights director at Simana, the Narino teachers union. 
 Just weeks before, in April, the FARC knocked out power for 300,000 residents along the Pacific coast with an attack on an electrical station. Colombian soldiers also found eight fuel-processing depots -- holding 77,000 barrels of oil -- used by the guerrillas for fuel and to process coca into cocaine in makeshift labs. 
 Nationwide, the FARC still collects $200 million to $300 million a year by taxing coca farmers and coordinating cocaine smuggling networks, according to Bruce Bagley, a specialist on the Andean drug war who teaches at the University of Miami. 
 That is down from $500 million earlier this decade, Mr. Bagley said, but it is still enough to finance the FARC after recent desertions and killings that have thinned its ranks to about 9,000 from 17,000. 
 Similarly, while the FARC's share of the cocaine trade has declined, Colombia's share of the world cocaine production has remained stable at about 60 percent. That means opportunities for new players like Colombia's resurgent right-wing militias and small-scale armed gangs taking the place of disassembled cartels. 
 ''A few battles won is not a war won,'' Mr. Bagley said. ''The FARC and other groups will survive as long as there are safe havens, the flow of drug money and large, remote regions unconnected to the broader economy.'' 
 One such area is El Rosario, a municipality three hours from Pasto, the capital of Narino, by four-wheel drive on winding switchbacks along the spine of the Andes. 
 A decade ago, coca was a rare crop in the area, farmers in El Rosario said. Then, eradication efforts under Plan Colombia, the $5 billion counterinsurgency and antinarcotics effort financed by the United States, forced the migration of coca cultivation here from other parts of the country.
 To them, the eradication effort has simply pushed the coca -- and the groups that feed off it -- into ever-more isolated parts of the country. Now that coca has become their livelihood, too, the farmers are determined to hold on to it. 
 At one remote spot, a 45-minute hike from a section of the dirt road, Liborio Rodriguez maintains a small coca field on a slope that has been subjected to aerial spraying and direct eradication efforts in recent years. 
 ''I know nothing is eternal, but I am not leaving this land,'' said Mr. Rodriguez, 41, while he and half a dozen laborers harvested leaves off coca bushes under the hot sun, pausing to sip chicha, an alcoholic drink made from corn. ''After everything we have been subjected to, I feel that I can survive here.'' 
 He and the other farmers say they have developed strategies to protect their coca bushes, planting smaller plots under canopies of trees and coating their leaves with sugar cane juice, thought to prevent phosphate-based herbicides from sticking. 
 In an example of unintended consequences, the phosphates repelled from coca bushes may soak into the ground and serve as a fertilizer, some botanists say, helping increase coca yields. 
 Other coca farmers have developed hybrid varieties of coca that grow lower to the ground and can be harvested four to six times a year, almost double previous levels. 
 Faced with the unexpected surge in coca cultivation in Narino and other areas, Colombian officials take comfort in findings by the United Nations that cocaine production in the country is believed to have remained stable in 2007, at about 660 tons. 
 And they say cultivation could have been much larger than the 543,630 acres measured last year were it not for the aerial spraying and manual eradication efforts, combined with strides in intercepting cocaine shipments and military victories against the FARC in numerous rural redoubts.
 Yet while interdiction levels are promising, the growth of coca cultivation also promises the FARC and rival groups new opportunities to profit from the cocaine trade. 
 One paramilitary group, the Black Eagles, has so terrified residents of El Rosario that they will hardly utter the militia's name when discussing how it extorts payments from them each month. 
 Elsewhere in Narino, residents similarly report that paramilitary groups are thriving, despite government efforts to demobilize more than 30,000 paramilitary combatants in recent years.
 These militias, sometimes in camouflaged uniforms -- bearing the letters A.C.N., the initials in Spanish for Peasant Self-Defense Forces of Narino, or O.N.G., for New Generation Organization -- have uprooted villagers near the Pacific coast, according to testimony collected by aid workers, as paramilitary groups, guerrillas and small-scale drug gangs struggled for control of cocaine smuggling routes. 
 Government figures suggest that displacements are declining in Narino, with about 7,500 people forced from their homes so far this year in comparison with almost 30,000 in all of 2007. But other agencies paint a more distressing picture. 
 Codhes, a leading human rights group, said overall displacements in Colombia climbed 38 percent last year to more than 300,000, with Narino emerging as ''the center of Colombia's humanitarian crisis,'' said Jorge Rojas, the group's director. 
 Seemingly marginal organizations persist in pockets of rural distress. Another leftist rebel group, the National Liberation Army, or E.L.N., has at least 100 combatants in the area, local officials and aid workers said. 
 A FARC rival that has been vastly diminished in recent years, the E.L.N. normally avoids involvement in the cocaine trade. But its riches are so tempting, community leaders say, that a rogue column of the group in Narino, Comuneros del Sur, has secured a new lease on life by financing itself through drug deals. 
 In June, three boys from the Awa indigenous group walked into a rural area planted with land mines by the E.L.N., community leaders said. The boys, ages 8, 12 and 15, were instantly killed, placing them among 31 victims of land mines in Narino this year, a grim figure that includes 19 civilians, according to Colombia's government. 
 ''Our view is that all sides are not weakening but getting stronger,'' said an Awa leader, asking not to be identified out of fear of retribution from the rebels. ''Where else in the world can the authorities claim to be winning when their opponents continue planting both coca and mines?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eradication efforts elsewhere have pushed coca cultivation into rural El Rosario, where workers processed coca leaves recently. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); COCAINE (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LANDMINES (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%) PACIFIC OCEAN (52%) COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



688 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; THE CURRICULUM; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 2252 words

HEADLINE: The Sustainable Hampton

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA. 
Anthony DePalma is a former reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
AN old stone and shingle windmill, atop a bluff near the breezy far end of Long Island, is the symbolic heart of the State University of New York's newest campus. Built around 1713, the mill once harnessed wind to generate power. Later, it was a guest house where Tennessee Williams spent a summer in the 1950s. Now it is undergoing reconstruction, its rotting beams replaced and huge blades rebuilt, as the campus takes shape around it. Aptly, Stony Brook Southampton is dedicated mind and body to the pursuit of sustainability.
 In recent years, just about every campus has made some commitment to learn anew how to co-exist with the natural world, to use less energy and to reduce the carbon emissions it contributes to global warming. But Stony Brook Southampton is building not only an environmentally friendly campus but also a curriculum in which nearly every course deals with sustainability. It is a public-education experiment being watched across the country. 
 ''Stony Brook Southampton will certainly be among a limited number of campuses with this level of commitment to sustainability,'' says Judy Walton, acting executive director of the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education. ''Sustainability is really a change in the mind-set of how we operate. It's like seeing the world through a new lens.'' 
 There were only 200 students on campus this past school year, the college's first; 350 are expected for the fall, and officials hope to reach 2,000 students within five years. If all goes according to plan, they will live in harmony with nature on a campus with geothermal technology and some wind-generated electricity; they will eat local produce in a cafeteria that does not have to figure out how to dispose of used cooking oil because it does not serve fried foods. In fact, it does not have a deep fryer. 
 But most significant is how Southampton, a part of Stony Brook University, is writing into its courses the concept of sustainability. Students study it when they study literature, economics, architecture or statistics. 
 Sustainability is one of those fuzzy academic areas that varies in what it encompasses, even what it's called. But on its philosophy there is consensus: it takes a multidimensional approach to understanding man's interactions with the natural and man-made world, with a strong social-justice component (something environmental studies has traditionally lacked). 
 Across-the-curriculum sustainability was once the exclusive province of eco-colleges like Prescott in Arizona, which offers a Ph.D. in sustainability education, and the College of the Atlantic in Maine, where all students major in human ecology. But the subject has spread to mainstream colleges, as an end in itself (usually as a minor) or wrapped in another discipline (sustainability design, say, or economics). Southampton will join the few institutions, among them Arizona State University, offering bachelor's and graduate degrees in sustainability. 
 In the spring, Arizona State's new School of Sustainability moved into a 1950s building retrofitted to meet many green standards. Charles L. Redman, director of the school, will welcome its first sustainability majors this fall about 110 undergraduates along with about 50 students in the graduate program. The focus of the curriculum, he says, is problem-solving. 
 ''Our current view is, right now, sustainability means being able to handle problems in a variety of situations,'' Dr. Redman says. ''What we want for the students is not that they learn how to build a structure in a certain way but that they learn the concepts of collaboration, intellectual agility and problem-solving. If students come out with those three things, we're a success.''
 Solving myriad problems might take into account social equity, economics, political science, physical sciences, cultural influences and the environment. It would acknowledge the potential for food shortages and energy drained when corn ethanol is produced as a fossil fuel replacement. Or foresee the cultural obstacles in introducing solar cookers to combat deforestation in rural Thailand, where villagers cook indoors. 
 ''We can't just engineer ourselves out of these problems,'' says Martin A. A. Schoonen, a geochemist who is interim dean of Southampton. Rather, complex contemporary issues require ''system thinking,'' he says, ''to better prepare students for whatever they do.'' 
 LIKE other campuses moving in this direction, Southampton is a work in progress. ''A lot of campuses have courses in sustainability, but here we actually have a campus that is going to develop around this idea,'' says Dr. Schoonen. ''That's important because we learn a lot outside the classroom.''
 Stony Brook Southampton sits on 82 acres of gently rolling land that has served as a millionaire's retreat (this is the Hamptons), an art colony and, in the 1960s, a small liberal arts college that was part of Long Island University. The weathered shingles of the windmill make clear that the ocean is nearby; the broad, sloping lawn leads to a dramatic view of Shinnecock Bay. Water, wind and sky are abundant, whether people are outside or peering through the portholes in the doors at Chancellors Hall. 
 The college that used to stand here, Southampton College, was known for a marine research program and a graduate writing program, both of which have been retained by Stony Brook and continue to attract students. The state paid $35 million for the property. 
 Shirley Strum Kenny, president of Stony Brook, wanted Southampton to be a center of sustainability like the one taking shape at Arizona State. But first she had to explain sustainability to the state university board of trustees. She says it wasn't a hard sell. ''Sustainability is going to be the defining issue of the 21st century,'' she says. Mindful that critics might object to a narrowly drawn curriculum, Southampton was kept closely tied to Stony Brook, whose liberal arts courses are available to Southampton students (via biodiesel shuttle). Stony Brook's main campus, with more than 22,000 students, is about 50 miles away. 
 Not everyone there agreed this was the best way for the university to grow. This spring, some 100 Stony Brook faculty members signed a petition challenging Dr. Kenny's leadership and priorities. They cited, among other things, the opening of Southampton -- just when the state was reducing the university system's budget by about $52 million and Stony Brook's by almost $12 million. Last month Dr. Kenny, who is 73, announced that for personal reasons she would retire next June after 15 years as president. She dismisses the critics as a marginal faction and says the money to reinvent Southampton is coming from special allocations from the Legislature about $45 million so far, with $12 million from other funds. 
 ''The plan is going to happen, period,'' she says. ''The future of Southampton is secure.'' 
 When the first undergraduate trailblazers arrived here last September, they had to put up with a campus that was anything but finished. 
 Six 1960s-era dorms have been brought up to state university standards. Others will be torn down and replaced with a 300-bed dorm that meets at least a silver LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) standard. The library -- actually called the ''information commons'' because electronic information sources may outnumber printed books -- is to open in 2009. It will have a geothermal system for heating and water, a rooftop collector for rainwater to be used in the washrooms and large windows positioned to take full advantage of the sun for light and heat. 
 Because there were so few students this first year, there wasn't much in the way of social activities. Students joked that anyone playing intramural sports could set school records. Academic options were also limited, but last month the state education department approved three new majors for the fall: ecosystems and human impact; environmental design, policy and planning; and sustainability studies, which, with its broad reach, Dr. Schoonen views as a new version of the traditional liberal arts degree. The college also offers majors in marine science, marine vertebrate biology and environmental studies. That last will be phased out, Dr. Schoonen says. 
 To facilitate team-teaching and enable disciplines to be crossed, faculty members are not grouped around traditional departments but around issues related to sustainability. For example, a course that deals with endangered species could draw on climate change and land use as well as literature, with a reading of ''Moby Dick.'' The goal is to create a synergy of science and humanities, engineering and literature, statistics and poetry, all in the same syllabus.
 One course recently approved, ''Ecology and Evolution in American Literature,'' is a broad survey of American literature from transcendentalism (Henry David Thoreau) to eco-feminism (Toni Morrison) to journalism (Don DeLillo), with the focus always on the evolution of ecological awareness in the United States. Another, ''Collective Action and Advocacy,'' studies the way people act collectively to address social problems, a key component of sustainability, and examines environmental activism like the Greenpeace and Save the Whales campaigns.
 Most important, the first students here have a chance to take part in decisions that will shape the physical campus, learning firsthand about the mechanical systems of the college and, so, basic lessons of sustainability. Students are helping determine the layout of the student center, which will either be expanded or torn down and built anew. How much space should be dedicated to exercise equipment and how much to lounging? They have decided that both effort and comfort are necessary, and the space should be split evenly between the two.
 Students are also to be involved in the design and construction of a storm water collection system for irrigation that respects the contours of the land, and a LEED-rated sewage treatment plant with attached learning center. Understanding the waste cycle, Dr. Schoonen says, equips students for the challenges of creating a sustainable world in a way that economic theory or civil engineering would not. 
 Jeffrey C. Lang, a 20-year-old junior from Mattituck, N.Y., works on a committee studying uses for a new greenhouse constructed of recycled materials. 
 Students have compiled a long list of herbs, fruits and vegetables to plant in the fall for use in the cafeteria and ornamental bushes to beautify the campus. Native grasses will be grown to return lawns to meadows, which don't require mowing. Fairly traditional stuff, says Mr. Lang, who transferred to Southampton from Suffolk County Community College to pursue his interest in architecture and the environment. His committee is also working on plans to build a radically different kind of greenhouse. ''Instead of just plants, we would like to see a geodesic dome built at a central point of the campus where people could get together,'' Mr. Lang says. ''We're looking to redefine how a greenhouse is perceived.'' 
 Some of Southampton's first students were lured by its promise. Others saw it as a back door to Stony Brook. Most of the charter class came off the flagship's wait list.
 This fall, though, all 150 incoming freshmen had applied directly to Southampton. (With 500 applications and 48 percent admitted, the admissions rate is close to the main campus's.) Twelve students will transfer from Stony Brook. But roughly 30 of last year's first class of students have decided that Southampton isn't for them. 
 One of them, Brianna R. Fletcher, 18, plans to be a physician assistant. She says she enrolled at Southampton only because Stony Brook did not have room for her. At Southampton she took biology, chemistry, calculus and archaeology, all sprinkled with core concepts of sustainability. The approach didn't suit her, she says, and she found the small student body too much like her high school. Still, Southampton had an effect on her: ''When I'm back at home in Buffalo now, I feel weird if I don't recycle, and if I use hairspray, I feel kind of bad because of what I know it can contribute to global warming.'' 
 Shalwyn Ullah, an 18-year-old from Brooklyn, also didn't know what to expect when he didn't get into Stony Brook and instead took a place at Southampton. He had to go online to find out what this place was all about. He wasn't looking for the kind of program offered at Southampton. But marine science seemed interesting. 
 First semester, he had a work-study job at the marine lab, feeding striped bass, seahorses and other fish used for experiments or for display. He says he liked working there because it helped him understand the cycles of nature. Second semester, a course called ''Peoples of South America'' opened his eyes to the environment's impact on the people in the third world. Now he's thinking about a career with an international development agency or a green energy company. 
 ''Other colleges practice sustainability by changing light bulbs and recycling,'' he says, ''but Southampton actually practices what it preaches by teaching sustainability as a major.'' Mr. Ullah says that by now his father, who is from Bangladesh, understands pretty well what sustainability is. But he still wants to know what someone can do with a degree in sustainability. 
 The answer, Mr. Ullah says, is save the earth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SYMBOL: Stony Brook Southampton's colonial windmill is being restored. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.28)
 HARVEST: Rainwater is collected and recycled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CURRICULA (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (75%); EMISSIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); WIND POWER PLANTS (73%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); LITERATURE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



689 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Mind Over What's the Matter

BYLINE: By SIMON BLACKBURN. 
Simon Blackburn is a professor of philosophy at the University of Cambridge. His latest book, ''How to Read Hume,'' will be published in the fall.

 BODY:
MORAL CLARITY 
 A Guide for Grown-Up Idealists. 
 By Susan Neiman. 
 467 pp. Harcourt. $27. 
 It is very hard to write well about ethics, and especially so in a way that engages and interests that elusive phantom of writers' imaginations, the general reader. But Susan Neiman's previous book on ethics, ''Evil in Modern Thought,'' was widely and favorably reviewed, and the present work is a worthy successor. Neiman's particular skill lies in expressing sensitivity, intelligence and moral seriousness without any hint of oversimplification, dogmatism or misplaced piety. She clearly and unflinchingly sees life as it is, but also sees how it might be, and could be, if we recaptured some of the hopes and ideals that currently escape us. 
 In other words, like its predecessor, ''Moral Clarity'' is a sustained defense of a particular set of values, and of a moral vocabulary that enables us to express them. Neiman sees these values as neglected or threatened all along the political spectrum. They received their strongest defenses in the moral thought of the Enlightenment, in David Hume and Adam Smith, but more particularly in Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Immanuel Kant. So the book is not only a moral polemic, but a powerful argument in support of the resources that these Enlightenment figures left us. Neiman, an American who is currently the director of the Einstein Forum in Berlin, boldly asserts that when Marxism, postmodernism, theory and fundamentalism challenge the Enlightenment they invariably come off second best. I agree, and I wish more people did so.
 Neiman's Enlightenment is not the hyperbolic ideology detected by some critics. It is not the unthinking worship of science, the materialistic, technological ideology that upset the Romantics and continues to upset their followers. It is not an unthinking confidence in the human capacity for knowledge, and still less in human perfectibility and unending progress. On the other hand, neither is it merely an expression of liberty, a resistance to unearned authority and the discovery of tolerance, which, she argues, provides too pallid an ideology to tempt people away from the superstitions and fundamentalisms that promise them more. It is rather an attitude encapsulated in four virtues: happiness, reason, reverence and hope. The moral clarity of her title is therefore not the ability to calculate answers to the practical conundrums that life sets us. It is rather the ability to see life in ways infused with these categories: to cherish happiness, to respect reason, to revere dignity and to hope for a better future.
 It may seem surprising that we could need reminding of these things, but a foray into an airport bookstore, or a trip around any gallery of contemporary art, would show how far our culture would have to move before it gets back to being comfortable with them. To take just one significant example that Neiman highlights, the current value placed on being a ''victim,'' and the glorification of victims as heroes, should be seen as a denial of human freedom and dignity, a denial of happiness and a barrier against hope. 
 Although her philosophical heroes are associated with the secular character of the Enlightenment, Neiman is deeply respectful of religious traditions and religious writings, and rightly dismissive of the kind of brash atheism that confidently insists there is no good in them. On the other hand, following Plato, she does not see ethics as the distinct preserve of the faithful. Instead, she writes, ''religion is rather a way of trying to give shape and structure to the moral concepts that are embedded in our lives.'' Her most profound engagement with a religious text is with the Book of Job, the confrontation with natural evil and injustice that conditioned almost all the subsequent contortions of theology. 
 Philosophically, one of the deepest discussions in the book is Neiman's appropriation of Kant's doctrine of freedom. This is a notoriously treacherous area, but Neiman correctly aligns it with the human capacity for noticing or inventing (it does not necessarily matter which) possibilities for action. As well as whatever is the case, we have what might be the case, or what we could make come about, as well as what ought to be the case. Freedom, in the sphere of action, is therefore associated with a refusal to accept that what is the case limits and constrains our possibility for doing the other thing, surprising the psychologist, as it were. If the biological scientist comes along and tells us that we are all selfish, we do not need to conduct surveys and build laboratories to disprove it. We just need to remember that it is open to us to tip the waitress although we will never see her again, or to refuse to comply with the unjust demand to condemn the innocent who is accused of some crime, even if it would benefit us to agree. If the biological scientist says that it is against human nature to do these things, we have it in our hands to refute him on the spot. If on the other hand he retreats to saying that doing them is just a disguise for selfishness, first, it is not clear that he is doing science anymore, and second, we can properly reply that if so it is the disguise, and not our supposed true nature, that matters to the waitress or the innocent who is accused. Theories about how moral education works are not nearly as important as we tend to think, provided we can keep our confidence that such education can work. The problem with our contemporary ''scientism'' about human nature is that too often it half convinces us that it cannot, and thus, Neiman says, helps dissolve both reverence and hope.
 One of Neiman's favorite examples of heroes is the Abraham who questioned God's decision to destroy Sodom on the grounds that it would be unjust to any good people in the city. Saying no or even ''Are you sure?'' to infinite power is probably high on most people's list of heroisms, one they hope, but doubt, they might achieve themselves. A more surprising hero at first sight is the wily Odysseus, the crafty wanderer whose morals are more frequently the target of raised eyebrows. But Odysseus represents the kind of engagement with the world coupled with an awareness of possibility that Neiman admires. His vitality, his adaptability, and his touching humanity are better models for grown-up living than the cardboard cutouts that inhabit most people's moral imaginations. Plato made a cognate point by banishing the artists from his ideal republic altogether, supposing that the human imagination is too malleable to withstand without corruption their assaults of fantasy and falsehood. Again, it is a sign of our times that we find anything outlandish in this view. 
 Finally, besides heroism there is villainy. Neiman wrestles with Hannah Arendt's problem of the banality of evil, and in particular the banality of evil in modern America: the betrayal of decency by Donald Rumsfeld, Dick Cheney and their underlings in the institutions they helped to poison. They are easy enough targets, but in taking them on Neiman again makes deep and important points. One of them is that evil is not only banal, but often results from brutal insensitivity rather than devilish malice. George Bush is not Iago or Scarpia, but the image of him repeating in speech after speech after the Sept. 11 attacks that with the simultaneous coming of war, national emergency and recession he had ''hit the trifecta'' is surely, as Neiman argues, from one of the lower circles of hell. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ETHICS (90%); WRITERS (78%); RELIGION (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); BOOKSTORES (57%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (75%)

TITLE: Moral Clarity: A Guide for Grown-Up Idealists (Book)>; Moral Clarity: A Guide for Grown-Up Idealists (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



690 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Better Half?

BYLINE: By SARA MOSLE. 
Sara Mosle is writing a book about an explosion at an East Texas school that killed hundreds of children in 1937.

 BODY:
IN the realm of college admissions, Harvard is seldom the spurned suitor. But last December, Olivia Rogan of Dallas had a hard time deciding how to respond to its overtures. 
 It wasn't that she didn't want to go there. She thought she might. 
 Or that Harvard didn't want her. It very likely did. 
 In addition to a platinum academic record and SAT scores, Olivia was one of the country's top student policy debaters -- an impressive accomplishment in any event, but particularly one for a girl. (Policy debate, which is characterized by almost incomprehensibly rapid talking, has long been a male preserve.) Even before she and her partner won the annual Harvard tournament, Ms. Rogan says, a Harvard debate coach was courting her.
 But Olivia didn't have just herself to consider. She is a triplet, and her siblings were applying to many of the same selective colleges. Her debating partner, as it happens, was her brother, Nick, whose own accomplishments, at least on paper, were nearly identical to Olivia's and whose heart was set on attending Harvard. Olivia had already gotten into Yale and their sister Stephanie into the University of Pennsylvania early admissions. (Harvard ended early admissions in 2007.) Nick had not yet been accepted anywhere. 
 This was Olivia's quandary: Yale didn't have a policy debate team, so giving up Harvard was effectively closing the door on debating. But if she got into Harvard and Nick didn't, she would never forgive herself. She would forever wonder if she had taken his spot. 
 ''Other people were applying to Harvard from our school,'' Olivia explains, ''and it's not like Harvard was going to take five people. Sometimes it only takes one or two. I knew colleges place this huge emphasis on geographical diversity. So were they really going to take two people from the exact same household?'' 
 Applying to selective colleges is stressful under the best of circumstances, but for twins and triplets the process can be particularly agonizing. For one, relationships between multiples, as they refer to themselves, are often exceedingly close. When the rejection or acceptance e-mail arrives, sometimes on a single computer, the glory, disappointment, envy and guilt play out under the same roof, threatening the single most important relationship in their lives, beyond the one with their parents.
 Torn by competing loyalties -- what they owe themselves and one another -- multiples often end up limiting their choices, sometimes unnecessarily. 
 Without consulting her brother, Olivia abruptly withdrew her application to Harvard. ''I'd already gotten into a really good school,'' she says. ''I don't regret my decision but I do think about it. It's really sad that I'm leaving debate.'' Nick, for his part, was accepted at Harvard but felt wretched. ''I wish she weren't quitting debate, that I hadn't had something to do with it,'' he says.
 Such struggles are likely to become more common in coming years. According to the National Center for Health Statistics, the number of triplets in the United States jumped by 400 percent from 1990 to 1998 and the number of twins 42 percent from 1990 to 2004, the result of women postponing motherhood (which increases the likelihood of multiple births) and the development in the 1980s of in vitro fertilization (which often involves implanting more than one embryo). This fall, those born in 1990 will be high school seniors, meaning the number of twins and triplets applying to college stands to increase substantially over the next decade.
 When asked about twins and admissions, Stanford declined to comment. Princeton offered only anodyne assurances that all applications were treated individually. William R. Fitzsimmons, the dean of admissions and financial aid at Harvard, was more forthcoming. 
 ''One of the great urban legends,'' Dr. Fitzsimmons says, ''is that we have quotas for a particular school or state, such that with twins or triplets we might accept one but not the other. If truly the candidates are equally qualified, the decision would be the same for both.''
 But that raises the question of what it means to be ''equally qualified,'' especially at a time of record applications. Last year, Harvard had its lowest acceptance rate ever, rejecting 93 of every 100 applicants. It stands to reason that when Olivia Rogan withdrew her application she did indeed increase the chances of acceptance, however marginally, for everyone else. 
 Duke is one of the few universities that asks an applicant if he or she is a twin or triplet, and if so, if other siblings are applying the same year. Christoph Guttentag, the dean for undergraduate admissions, explains, ''The question arose from two different impulses.'' 
 The first was purely logistical: ''Twins often have very similar names. They might begin with the same initial. It might be Bill and Barry or Jane and Jamie. They often have very similar Social Security numbers, only one number different. They have the same address and often very similar e-mail addresses. And if someone isn't paying perfect attention, the application can be filed in the other twin's folder.'' (Twins and triplets applying to the same place might be well advised to pick dissimilar e-mail addresses.)
 The second impulse, however, reflected a far deeper concern. ''The system any selective college uses is geared to making fine distinctions, but it can be a blunt instrument,'' Mr. Guttentag allows. ''It's good at distinguishing big differences and good at magnifying very, very small differences.'' Small differences, he says, can loom larger than they should. 
 Mr. Guttentag points to an experience he had as a young admissions officer at the University of Pennsylvania, when one twin was admitted and the other denied. ''On the basis of our rating system, one was slightly stronger than the other. Afterward, we got a letter from the father, asking about our decision, and I explained it to him. He said, 'Under your rating system, that may be correct, but I can tell you, I live with these kids every day and they are very, very similar.' The lesson I drew was if we're making different decisions, do those differences actually mean anything in the real world?''
 Whether owing to nature or nurture, Mr. Guttentag finds, twins and triplets can be startling in their academic similarity: in course selection, grades and standardized test scores. ''It's also interesting when they're not similar at all, and we might wonder why that's the case.'' 
 Perhaps as a result, Duke considers twins both individually and as a unit. ''If the applications are consistent,'' he says, ''we like to have a compelling reason to make a different decision.'' An example of a compelling reason would be if one sibling applied for early admission and the other did not. 
 Jason and Scott Bade, who will be high school seniors this fall, exemplify Mr. Guttentag's concerns. Both are top students at Aragon High School in San Mateo, Calif., aiming for Stanford and the Ivy Leagues. Because of tracking, they've ended up in almost all the same Advanced Placement and honors courses. Both participate in mock Congress, mock trial and model United Nations, and enjoy tennis and classical music. One notable difference is that Scott is a history and political science buff and writes a weekly political column for the school newspaper; Jason, whose passion is environmentalism, is working to bring solar power to their school and district. 
 The boys fret about minuscule differences in their resumes, ones they agree favor Jason ever so slightly. Jason did marginally better on the math portion of the SAT, and has straight A's and a shot at being valedictorian. Scott, meanwhile, received -- egads! -- a B in second-year calculus as a junior. 
 It's not that the Bades think that a single B in a challenging course will disqualify Scott from admission to an elite school. It's that the Bades, like Olivia Rogan, worry that the Ivy Leagues typically accept no more than a handful of students from their high school, and when they are forced to choose, Scott may lose out to his brother. In a few cases the Bade boys have agreed not to compete head to head. ''I'm interested in economics and business, so I'll apply to the University of Pennsylvania,'' Jason says. ''My brother, because he's interested in politics, will apply to Georgetown University.'' But neither is willing to sacrifice a shot at Yale or Princeton. ''If we divide and conquer,'' Jason says, ''we might end up both losing out.'' 
 Their high school counselor, the Bades say, has advised them to try to distinguish themselves by pursuing different activities. But Dr. Fitzsimmons of Harvard warns that trying to make distinctions can backfire if they seem artificial. ''One is always better off,'' he insists, ''letting colleges -- or a job, for that matter -- know what you're really about, what your strengths are, as, in the end, it's very hard trying to be something you're not.'' 
 But the Bades' problem isn't that they lack interests; it's that having spent so much of their lives together, brought up by the same parents and attending the same classes, they're passionate about so many of the same things. Not surprisingly, they are attracted to many of the same colleges. 
 If multiples and their families are sometimes skeptical of the application process, it's because, they say, they have encountered so many wrongheaded notions over the years. Many school districts, for instance, continue to require multiples to be separated in class to help them foster independence. ''In this country, we have a tendency to push twins apart,'' says Nancy L. Segal, director of the Twin Studies Center at California State University, Fullerton. The science behind such policies, however, has been widely disputed.
 ''There is no compelling evidence that schools should adopt strict policies regarding classroom placements for twins,'' says Heather M. Beauchamp, an associate professor of psychology at the State University of New York, Potsdam, who has studied the literature. One 2005 study of adolescent twins in Finland, she says, ''found no significant differences in term-grade academic achievement for twins rated as dependent or independent.'' Still, some families express fear that colleges harbor outdated views that affect their willingness to admit more than one multiple at a time -- for the students' own good.
 Dr. Fitzsimmons contends that no such bias exists. ''I've seen twins argue that the best thing in the world for them would be to be apart in college. That's worked out. I've also seen them argue just as passionately that they should be together. That's worked out, too. There's no one mold.'' 
 Take the Elster sisters, triplets from Winston-Salem, N.C. Before college, the longest any of them had been apart was three weeks one summer when Martha Elster went to England. Her sister Elizabeth recalls how friends in high school sometimes referred to her as ''one-third,'' as if she were only a fraction of a human being. When it was time to consider colleges, she says, ''we wanted to go our separate ways, become our own individuals.'' 
 Elizabeth went to Washington University in St. Louis, where, she says, ''it was great.'' being on her own.
 ''I wasn't known as one of three,'' she adds. ''I was one person.'' 
 Thus when her sister Martha, who was miserable after a semester at Emory, ended up transferring to Wash U., Elizabeth was upset. Elizabeth had won a prestigious scholarship, the Dansforth. Now Martha won the same. ''It caused some difficult feelings for Elizabeth to have her sister come in and steal her thunder,'' says the girls' mother, Jeanine Elster. 
 The sisters made a pledge. ''We worked out a plan for sophomore year,'' Elizabeth says. ''We'd try to be really separate.'' While they retain their special bond, the girls make a point of taking different classes and having different friends. Their sister Patricia, on her own at Wake Forest, admits to occasional pangs of jealousy over not being with her sisters, too. 
 The twins and triplets aren't the only ones facing adjustments after years of living under one roof. Leslie Jackson, a mother of triplets in Carrollton, Tex., says that when her two sons and one daughter graduate next spring, she won't have the luxury of getting used to an empty nest gradually.
 ''Next year,'' she says, ''I'm going to go from having three noisy, boisterous kids to none.'' 
 Like her children, she's both excited and daunted by the prospect. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MULTIPLE CHOICE: Jason Bade, left, and his twin, Scott, 17, worry that in the competition for admission, one is hurting the other's chances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDI LYNN BEACH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.16)
 TOGETHER AGAIN: Elizabeth, left, and Martha Elster both now attend Washington University in St. Louis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (88%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (59%) MISSOURI, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



691 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A Modest Proposal: Eco-Friendly Stimulus

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER. 
Alan S. Blinder is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He has advised many Democratic politicians.

 BODY:
ECONOMISTS and members of Congress are now on the prowl for new ways to stimulate spending in our dreary economy. Here's my humble suggestion: ''Cash for Clunkers,'' the best stimulus idea you've never heard of.
 Cash for Clunkers is a generic name for a variety of programs under which the government buys up some of the oldest, most polluting vehicles and scraps them. If done successfully, it holds the promise of performing a remarkable public policy trifecta -- stimulating the economy, improving the environment and reducing income inequality all at the same time. Here's how. 
 A CLEANER ENVIRONMENT The oldest cars, especially those in poor condition, pollute far more per mile driven than newer cars with better emission controls. A California study estimated that cars 13 years old and older accounted for 25 percent of the miles driven but 75 percent of all pollution from cars. So we can reduce pollution by pulling some of these wrecks off the road. Several pilot programs have found that doing so is a cost-effective way to reduce emissions.
 MORE EQUAL INCOME DISTRIBUTION It won't surprise you to learn that the well-to-do own relatively few clunkers. Most are owned, instead, by low-income people. So if the government bought some of these vehicles at above-market prices, it would transfer a little purchasing power to the poor.
 AN EFFECTIVE ECONOMIC STIMULUS With almost all the income tax rebates paid out, and the economy weakening, Cash for Clunkers would be a timely stimulus in 2009. As was made clear during the Congressional debate last winter, prompt spending is critical to an effective stimulus program. And the quickest, surest way to get more consumer spending is to put more cash into the hands of people who live hand-to-mouth.
 Here's an example of how a Cash for Clunkers program might work. The government would post buying prices, perhaps set at a 20 percent premium over something like Kelley Blue Book prices, for cars and trucks above a certain age (say, 15 years) and below a certain maximum value (perhaps $5,000). A special premium might even be offered for the worst gas guzzlers and the worst polluters. An income ceiling for sellers might also be imposed -- say, family income below $60,000 a year -- to make sure the money goes to lower-income households. 
 The numbers in this example are purely illustrative. By raising the 20 percent premium, lowering the 15-year minimum age, or raising the $5,000 maximum price or the $60,000 income ceiling, you make the program broader and costlier -- and create a bigger stimulus. By moving any of these in the opposite direction, you make the program narrower, cheaper and smaller.
 People who sell their clunkers would receive government checks, perhaps paid to them at the motor vehicle bureau office where they turn in their old vehicles. They would be free to spend this money as they see fit, whether on a new car or truck or some other form of transportation -- or anything else. To ensure that the program really pulls clunkers off the roads, only vehicles that had been registered and driven for, say, the past year would be eligible.
 The government can either sell the cars it buys to licensed recyclers for scrap, or refit them with new emissions controls and resell them. But the government must not ship the cars to poor countries, where they would continue to belch pollutants. 
 Cash for Clunkers is not the pipe dream of some academic scribblers. Local variants are either now in operation or have been tested in California, Colorado, Delaware, Illinois, Texas, Virginia and several Canadian provinces. So there is no need for a ''proof of concept.'' Rather, a national Cash for Clunkers program could learn from all this experience in building a better system.
 THE big need to date has been money, which is why the scope of Cash for Clunkers programs has been limited. And that, of course, is where the need for stimulus comes in. We now want intelligent ways for the federal government to spend money.
 Here's a high-end cost calculation for a national program. Suppose we took two million cars off the road a year, at an average purchase price of $3,500 (the top price in the Texas program today). Including all the administrative costs of running the program, that would probably cost about $8 billion. Compared with other nationwide income-transfer or environmental policies, that's a pretty small bill. For stimulus purposes, it would, of course, be better to run the program on a larger scale, if possible. There are over 250 million cars and light trucks on American roads, and some 30 percent are 15 years old or older. That's at least 75 million clunkers. At five million cars a year -- an ambitious target, to be sure -- the program would cost less than $20 billion, still cheap compared with the $168 billion stimulus enacted in February. 
 And what would all this money buy? First, less pollution. The Texas program estimated that clunkers spew 10 to 30 times as much pollution as newer cars. Second, the subsidy value (the 20 percent premium in my example) is a direct income transfer to the owners of clunkers, who are mostly low-income people. Third, these folks would almost certainly spend the cash they receive -- not just the subsidy, but the entire payment, giving the economy a much-needed boost.
 Oh, and I left out a fourth possible goal. By pulling millions of old cars off the road, Cash for Clunkers would stimulate the demand for new cars as people trade up. It need hardly be pointed out that our ailing auto industry, like our ailing economy, could use a shot in the arm right now. Scrapping two million or more clunkers a year should help.
 With today's concerns over stimulus, inequality and greenhouse gases, as well as an aging vehicle fleet, Cash for Clunkers is an idea whose time may finally have come. Write your congressman. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%)

COMPANY: KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



692 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; THE STUDENTS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: The Urban Environment

BYLINE: By ABBY SCHULTZ. 
Abby Schultz is a freelance writer in Montclair, N.J.

 BODY:
HER giggling friends suddenly quiet down when Jamilka Carrasquillo, her large silver hoop earrings swinging, describes the day her class killed chickens.
 ''We actually had to go up to the woods to do it,'' she says, perched on the back of a chair in a classroom at Common Ground High School in New Haven. 
 Each student who wanted one got a bird. Following a modified-kosher method (no rabbi), the students stunned the birds with an electric shock, hung them upside down and cut the jugular vein. They call the chickens ''meat birds'' to maintain emotional distance, but the experience can be difficult. 
 Jamilka cried; others, even teachers, did too. A lot emerged as vegetarians. Jamilka did not, but she says she came to understand that the pinkish slabs wrapped in plastic on the grocery shelf actually come from living animals. She pledged not to waste food. 
 ''It just exposed us to what we're eating on our plate,'' she says. ''I get so mad at home when people throw away food.'' 
 The exercise -- under the supervision of Michael Darree, a poultry specialist and University of Connecticut animal science professor -- is part of ''Egg and Seed,'' a class combining biology, ecology and literature that reflects the educational philosophy called active, authentic learning. To make learning real and relevant, students aren't just told how food is produced; they actually slaughter chickens for the lunch table. 
 In its 11th year, Common Ground, a magnet high school of 150 students, chosen by lottery, was one of the country's first so-called green charter schools. Today, at least 120 such programs put environmental topics at the center of their curriculum, according to the Green Charter Schools Network, formed just last year. The number has grown along with the expansion of the charter movement, says Senn Brown, executive director of the network. The environmental theme is particularly popular among charters: it lends itself to the kind of interdisciplinary, project-based approaches to learning that they employ, and the subject has also gained traction as a national issue. 
 Recently opened charters include the Springwater Environmental Sciences School, in a rural area bordering 500 acres of government-protected land in Oregon City, and the Michael Frome Academy, in Woodbury, Minn., which opens this fall with about 70 kindergarteners through third graders. The curriculum will focus on real-world projects related to the natural environment.
 Unlike many green schools, Common Ground focuses on the urban environment, and its students reflect the economic and racial diversity of New Haven. Nestled in the woods of West Rock Ridge State Park, Common Ground is half a mile down a winding road from public housing projects and near the rapidly gentrifying Westville neighborhood. 
 Three-quarters of its students, including Jamilka, qualify for free lunches. The organic eggs and vegetables the students eat at school -- from Common Ground's farm and garden when possible -- would be too costly for most of its families. And many of the students' lives are touched by violence. One student's father was murdered this winter; the same day, two men were sentenced in the murder of another student's brother. 
 Teaching students who live amid poverty and crime to be green is ''a little like telling India they shouldn't have cars,'' says Oliver Barton, the school's director. Its college preparatory curriculum, he says, emphasizes the environmental costs of big cars and big houses, and how cities like New Haven can be sustainable communities. In ''Four Corners,'' team-taught by a social studies teacher and an English teacher, students choose a neighborhood and document its stories, writing up what they learn online (www.nhep.com/passiton/). 
 Students also learn the ways nature is part of their urban world. In a year studying biodiversity, they learn the difference between a blue jay and an indigo bunting and can name some 35 species by sight, including the rose-breasted grosbeaks and red-bellied woodpeckers that come to the feeders outside their classroom window along with more ordinary house sparrows and mourning doves. 
 In ''Environmental Justice,'' team-taught by a science teacher and a social studies teacher, students tangle with questions like whether a factory, with its potential for pollution as well as jobs, should be placed in the suburbs or the inner city. ''They start to see connections to their own lives,'' Mr. Barton says.
 The high school is the main educational component of the New Haven Ecology Project, which also sponsors community programs. Both operate from a barnlike structure on 20 acres of forest and farmland. 
 The school, painted green with white trim and enlarged twice to accommodate more students, is surrounded by farm buildings used for germinating plants and caring for animals, including the chickens, two goats and a Cotswold-California Red sheep with long hair good for spinning. A one-acre organic garden is spread out in neat rows near a giant pile of compost.
 All of this is used in classwork. Students also take standard English, foreign language, mathematics, social studies and science, although environmental topics are often used within those classes to convey a lesson. Students in an economics class this past spring, for example, wrote proposals for green business ventures. 
 Jamilka and a fellow student proposed creating a CD that would be ''kind of like what Al Gore did'' to explain global warming to the unaware. ''A lot of people didn't go to college,'' Jamilka says. ''So we're breaking it down.'' 
 Common Ground students begin high school with reading scores two to three years below grade level, though they improve steadily. This year, 77 percent of 10th graders are proficient on state reading tests, compared with 48 percent when the students were in eighth grade; 58 percent are proficient in math as 10th graders, up from 43 percent as eighth graders.
 With a 6 percent dropout rate for the class of 2006, Common Ground fares significantly better on retention than the district, at 16 percent. But last year wasn't strong for college going. About 65 percent of graduating seniors went directly to college; the previous year 91 percent did. Pregnancy and financial problems deferred some dreams.
 IN conversation, Jamilka will quickly mention her poetry writing, her dedication to the environment and her Puerto Rican heritage.
 Her mother abused drugs, she says, and her father sold them back in Puerto Rico. She was 5 years old when her aunt was awarded custody of her, and then adopted her and her brother Josh, now 12. Jamilka arrived in New Haven from Puerto Rico speaking only Spanish. 
 ''I couldn't communicate with anybody,'' she says, and classmates called her names because she was the only Puerto Rican in school. Middle school was no better.She felt lost, ''just a waste of space'' in its vastness. 
 In December 2003, the family was awakened at 2 a.m. by the police. Her brother -- by adoption -- had driven into a street pole and died. ''We believe it might have been drinking and driving,'' she says. 
 Jamilka was introduced to Common Ground by another brother. She was struck that the teachers hugged him goodbye after school. 
 ''That love and that welcoming just made me want to go there,'' she says. Still, when she arrived four years ago, she could not shake her depression over her brother's death. ''I didn't want to work; I didn't want to do anything,'' she remembers, sitting in the living room of her home, clutching a stuffed elephant.
 The cloud over her head did not escape the attention of Jennifer Guarino, a writing teacher. 
 Jamilka recalls, ''I told her how it feels like losing him.'' Ms. Guarino encouraged her to write what she was feeling in poetry form. 
 At first it didn't work. Jamilka tried to make everything rhyme. Then she loosened up and started writing. A lot. In a booklet she keeps of her favorite poems she includes one written early that year about her desire to die. It reminds her how far she has come. 
 At Common Ground, in an attempt to ensure a stable, positive environment, every student is known to every adult, and classes spend half an hour twice a week discussing personal goals. Liz Cox, dean of students, describes ''a place where there is constancy, a place where there are adults who are rooting for them and who are actively trying to get them to the next step.''
 Once a week after school, a social worker from Yale moderates ''girl talk,'' a group sparked by problems among the girls -- arguments, gossip and racial insensitivities. 
 The boys have their issues, and a group, as well. One boy, a junior, is often seen off by himself. Common Ground ''was my mom's idea,'' he says. 
 In her junior yearbook, Jamilka is described as ''most changed.'' At home, a half-hour bus ride from school, she takes her brother on hikes and chides him for not turning off the power strip connected to his PlayStation. She got her uncle to help her plant boxwood and rhododendrons in their small yard, and she keeps watch over a robin's nest tucked in an overhang on her front porch. 
 But Jamilka wasn't able to persuade her parents not to buy a wide-screen television that takes up most of one living room wall or to get them to turn off the power strip when the TV isn't on. ''They don't understand,'' she says. 
 This month, Jamilka began an internship at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She hopes it will help her decide what type of nursing career to pursue. In the fall she will study human services at Albertus Magnus College in New Haven, staying close to home to help her aunt, a retired nurse, who has heart trouble.
 ''Everybody in the house depends on me,'' she says. 
 For her community service requirement -- Common Ground requires 15 hours a year -- Jamilka worked at the local veterans' hospital and organized the high school talent show. 
 ''We're only going to be here for a little while,'' she says. ''You might as well leave a mark, leave an example for other people and give back to society.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GREEN THUMB: Common Ground is one of 120 green charter schools. Its students Ricardo Arbelo, left, and Saquan Williams help beautify New Haven.
 CLIMATE CHANGE: Jamilka Carrasquillo says she was ''just a waste of space'' before high school. Today she embraces poetry writing, her Puerto Rican heritage and the environment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.EdLife30 and 31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POULTRY (90%); ANIMALS (90%); CURRICULA (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (88%); CITY LIFE (86%); CITIES (84%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); RURAL SCHOOLS (76%); MEAT FREE DIETS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); STATE PARKS (72%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: GREEN THUMB (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



693 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section EDLIFE; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 2157 words

HEADLINE: The Endless School Year

BYLINE: By LAURA PAPPANO. 
Laura Pappano is writer-in-residence at Wellesley Centers for Women at Wellesley College.

 BODY:
SURE, it's 97 degrees outside and nearly the same in Corcoran Hall at George Washington University. Prof. Martin Zysmilich did receive the unfortunate e-mail about the air-conditioning breakdown, but there is serious material to cover. Just eight minutes into a 90-minute lecture, Dr. Zysmilich, a lanky Argentine in brown Pumas who rides his bicycle to class, has filled the overhead screen in Room 106 with graphs showing the distribution of electrons in s, p and d orbitals. He pauses to ask students, some fanning themselves and sipping iced beverages (and one with a wet paper towel plastered on the front of her neck), ''Can I erase this?''
 Hearing no objections, Dr. Zysmilich clears the decks and dives into the electron properties of aluminum. After all, Chem 11 has to jam a semester's worth of introductory chemistry into just six weeks.
 What ever happened to summer? 
 Don't look now, but it's shrinking. Colleges are grabbing more of the May-August calendar for serious academics. During the summer months, some institutions now offer hundreds of the same courses they do during the academic year, taught by the same professors -- only faster. At the University of Michigan, the College of Literature, Science and the Arts alone offers 418 courses during the summer, about 50 more than in 2001. By the time they graduate, more than half of all undergraduates will have done course work on campus in summer, and a quarter will have attended two or more summer sessions. In 2004, Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif., stopped renting classrooms to youth groups and began offering regular courses. Pitzer's president, Laura Skandera Trombley, says this lets the college use the campus in the way it was intended (no more squealing grade-school campers on the quad) and gives undergraduates what they want. ''Students had been asking for flexibility with their schedules,'' Dr. Trombley says.
 As students pack more into their degrees (double majors, job-getting minors, internships and study abroad), summer helps maximize grade point averages and sanity. Do physics in summer, and the year is more manageable. 
 ''I basically see it as, I am going to be working toward graduate school or getting a good job and I have limited time, so summer is another useful time in the year,'' says Nick Wellcamp, a fourth-year student at the Georgia Institute of Technology who is double majoring in industrial systems engineering and public policy and has been continuously enrolled since August 2005. 
 Mr. Wellcamp says he misses his family back in Louisville, Ky., ''a great deal'' but wanted to take a course in technical communications to ''get some of my core requirements out of the way.'' While campus is more sparsely populated, ''my friends are still around,'' says Mr. Wellcamp, who is among 33 students living in the Delta Chi fraternity house this summer. 
 ''There are plenty of things to do as long as you are proactive,'' he adds, then ticks off his recent outings: meals out, two Atlanta Braves games and a rafting trip down the Chattahoochee River.
 The idea that summer is no longer for dabblers and underperformers reflects a larger change in how students approach their studies: strategically. 
 ''More students are just being full-time students 12 months a year,'' says Martyn Gunn, dean of undergraduate programs and associate provost for academic services at Texas A&M. ''Personally, I'm sort of against it.''
 While Dr. Gunn wishes students would pause to reflect and try new things, he says more use summer to get work done. Indeed, a questionnaire filled out by 373 students at two Northeastern universities, to be published in the September issue of the journal Summer Academe, ranks the top reasons for summer attendance: to take a required course (No. 1) or one that couldn't be fitted in during the regular year (No. 6); to beef up grades (No. 3); to graduate on time, even if switching majors (No. 4); to lighten the load during the year (No. 11); and, far down the list, to make up a failed class (No. 26). 
 IN Dr. Zysmilich's Chem 11 class, Rebecca Soto, a sophomore from Tarrytown, N.Y., says her academic year is so packed that taking chemistry this summer was a no-brainer. ''If you want to finish in four years and you are pre-med, summer school is imperative,'' says Ms. Soto, who splits the cost of an off-campus apartment with two other students (her share: $367 a month). Ms. Soto's parents pay her tuition ($971 a credit hour), but she works 25 hours a week at the International Spy Museum in Washington to cover living expenses.
 Her classmate Caitlin Turner, a junior transferring to G.W. and changing her major from public relations to pre-med, is taking chemistry to get on track. Ms. Turner, who is living at home in Arlington, Va., commutes into Washington for class. 
 Students are quick to enumerate the pros and cons of summer courses. Ms. Turner, who is new to college science, finds the pace dangerously speedy. ''It's difficult to keep up, and I don't realize I am confused until it's too late,'' she says. 
 Ms. Soto, on the other hand, likes the concentrated format: chemistry meets for 90 minutes four times a week, plus another five hours of lab work and discussion. The frequency of meetings makes learning easy, she says, because it's ''set up a lot like high school.'' 
 Summer classes are smaller and more intimate (the No. 2 reason to go to summer school among the surveyed students). Dr. Zysmilich knows the names of all 14 students in Chem 11, which during the academic year can have 150 students. Some say professors seem more engaged. 
 Jim Lehman, who is teaching an international trade and development policy course at Pitzer, says students come to class better prepared because they focus study time on one or two subjects instead of four or five. And while he doesn't ease up on his grading standards, he does set a more relaxed tone, dressing in shorts, Polos and Tevas. Also, he says, ''people might bring things to munch on in class.''
 Timothy Campos, a Pitzer junior, is taking watercolor and Chicano/Chicana literature this summer. ''Art takes a lot of time outside the classroom,'' he explains. 
 Mr. Campos is typical of students who think strategically. As a double major in sociology and Chicano studies with a minor in studio art, Mr. Campos, also Latino Student Union president and a community organizer for day laborers, says summer classwork will help him avoid a senior year in which he is under pressure to create. ''I didn't want all the art to pile up on me,'' he says. 
 Mr. Campos has a year-round job in the admissions office that in summer comes with a free dorm room (which he has to open for campus tours) and helps pay for the added expense of summer school: financial aid covers only 75 percent of tuition for high-need students at Pitzer. During the school year, about 85 percent of all of Mr. Campos's expenses are covered.
 Summer students here are concentrated in Atherton Hall, the coveted ''green'' freshman dorm. That meant Mr. Campos, a self-described ''artistic dresser,'' had to move the contents of his room from Mead Hall, about 50 feet away, including his collection of hats, shoes and objects reflecting his fascination with skulls.
 THE push to pack more into college may reflect the worries of a generation raised amid global competition. In majors with demanding requirements, like engineering, it has long been common for students to take more than four years to completetheir degrees. On top of that, double majoring -- or having a strong (and often unrelated) minor -- is increasingly popular. 
 Anderson Smith, senior vice provost for academic affairs at Georgia Tech, wants students to pair tough technical majors with unrelated minors. ''They might want to major in mechanical engineering and minor in music technology,'' says Dr. Smith, who says being ''broadly trained'' can distinguish an engineering graduate from his or her counterparts in other countries. 
 Expanding summer offerings (and recasting teaching schedules) to accommodate the spillover, says Dr. Smith, is ''part of the discussion.''
 The notion that summer is a crucial piece of an academic program is a new idea to colleges, says Thomas F. Kowalik, director of continuing education and outreach at Binghamton University and co-author, with Donna M. Fish, of the Summer Academe study. He says colleges have traditionally looked at summer as an afterthought, mostly a way to market to outsiders. But according to the North American Association of Summer Sessions, 87 percent of summer enrollees are an institution's regular students.
 Increasingly, Dr. Kowalik says, colleges are recognizing summer sessions (often structured as two six- or eight-week terms) as found treasure, just as they are squeezing short courses into winter break and adding brief Maymesters between graduation and summer session. On some Web sites, summer has lost the camplike graphics and become just another tab along with fall and spring on the academic schedule page, evidence of the move to integrate summer academics more fully. 
 Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president for government and public affairs at the American Council on Education, predicts summer will one day be as busy as fall or spring. ''It just doesn't make sense to have academic facilities shut down for the months of June, July and August,'' he says. In addition to providing revenue, he adds, summer helps colleges manage oversubscribed courses.
 State Representative David E. Poisson, Democrat of Virginia, has filed a bill to study moving the state's public colleges to a year-round schedule to add seating capacity. He says that by 2010 some 40,000 Virginia high school graduates hoping to attend one of the state's public four-year colleges will otherwise be shut out. One way to increase access, he says, ''is to look at the calendar.'' 
 Five years ago, George Washington considered requiring juniors to attend the summer session, but Donald R. Lehman, the executive vice president for academic affairs, says the idea ''ignited a fire'' among faculty and parents wedded to family vacations -- and died. 
 Could economic and scheduling pressures make George Washington revisit the year-round calendar debate? 
 ''I think we will, and I don't think we will be the only university,'' Dr. Lehman says.
 For students like Ms. Soto, of course, the academic calendar is already year-round; in addition to Chem 11, she is taking a sign language course. ''I'd rather be hanging out with my friends,'' she acknowledges during a 15-minute break at the spy museum, where she helps confused visitors navigate the exhibits, ''but in the long run I know it will help me.'' 
 Summer Aid
 Just when you thought you were in for a three-month financial respite, along comes summer school, and more bills: a quarter-share, say, of an off-campus rental, extra living expenses and another tuition tab. 
 How will you pay for it?
 LESS FOR MORE: Many colleges and universities charge as much for a credit hour in July as they do in October. And aid is skimpier. Most institutions don't offer nongovernmental aid; if they do, they don't offer it on the same level (perhaps aid for tuition but not for other expenses). The federal Pell grant won't help it's limited to a single yearly grant of up to $4,800, though Congress is considering a ''year-round Pell,'' a second grant to help pay for summer courses.
 PLANNING AHEAD FOR LOANS: For most students, financial aid in summer means loans. Government loans can be used for summer study, but students need to seek help from the financial aid office as early as the previous fall.
 Phil Day, president of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, says that while loans traditionally cover two semesters over nine months, the year can be extended. ''The definition of when those two semesters are sequenced is entirely flexible,'' he says. A ''trailer'' can be added to the current academic year or a ''leader'' to begin the next year early.
 But you aren't getting more money. Federal Stafford loans are capped at $23,000 over four years. Knocking off a few courses in summer makes the most dollar sense for those planning to graduate in under four years. 
 OFF-PEAK PRICE BREAKS: To attract students to less crowded classrooms, some institutions are beginning to offer discounts. 
 At Case Western Reserve in Cleveland, students who enrolled in fall 2006 or later pay half price, or $684 per credit hour, in summer. This year for the first time, the University of Vermont has taken 15 percent off summer rates (in-state tuition per credit hour drops from $434 to $369). And the Texas Legislature has allocated $3 million to cut tuition at Texas A & M for the July-August session (from $156 to $75 per credit hour, in-state). Fred Brown, the state representative who sponsored the bill, wants similar cuts at all the state's 18 four-year colleges.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANGELICA ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (73%); GRADES & GRADING (70%); ENGINEERING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (69%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



694 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Commute: Demand for Rides Soars

BYLINE: By MARY JO PATTERSON

 BODY:
As commutes go, Spenceretta Billings had a killer: 45 miles one way, driving from her home in Easton, Pa., to Hillsborough.
 But it was bearable until June, when gasoline prices started streaking toward $4 a gallon. Fed up with the cost -- she was filling the tank of her Buick with $62 worth of gas every other day -- Mrs. Billings devised a cheaper way of getting to work. 
 Her new morning commute is a three-course affair that, she said, gets better as it goes along: a drive across the Delaware River to a train station in Annandale; a ride on the Raritan Valley line of New Jersey Transit, costing $106 monthly; and a 30-minute walk to the office. 
 It takes longer, but it's worth it, said Mrs. Billings, 35, a program assistant with a nonprofit organization who describes herself as environmentally sensitive. ''You can't save money, reduce your carbon footprint and come home at the same time,'' she said. ''Something has to give.'' She is among the thousands of people across the metropolitan area who are changing their commuting habits, according to data gathered from public transportation agencies. Even though the number of riders generally declines during the summer vacation months, the figures show weekday ridership has increased by about 5 percent over all since Jan. 1, while bridge and tunnel traffic has decreased by 4 to 5 percent. 
 In areas not well served by mass transit, demand for car pools, van pools, shuttles and park-and-ride lots has soared and is still building, according to transportation agencies that provide the services. Some transit operators are even recording significantly increased ridership on weekends this summer. New Jersey Transit trains had a record number of riders on Saturday, July 12, for example, when a free Bon Jovi concert was held in Central Park and the Mets played at home.
 No one can say for sure what is propelling the trend, but with gasoline costing $4 a gallon or more, the answer would seem to be a no-brainer. 
 ''There's no question we're gaining some ridership out of the high prices,'' said Helena E. Williams, president of the Long Island Rail Road. The L.I.R.R. carried 4.6 percent more passengers from January to May of this year than during the same period in 2007. ''What's significant is that we are seeing this increase despite a fare increase in March and falloff in employment growth.''
 Transit managers say they are bracing for September, when vacationing commuters return in full force, especially on the already-jammed PATH lines, the New Haven Line of Metro-North and the stretch of rail between Penn Station in Newark and Penn Station in New York. ''We have already taken up every train slot available during the peak hour into Manhattan,'' said Richard R. Sarles, executive director of New Jersey Transit, which shares those rails with Amtrak. ''The trains are as long as possible.''
 To people like Ken Brettschneider, 59, a lighting consultant from Mount Kisco, N.Y., the crush is already obvious. 
 ''Suddenly, there's more and more people,'' he said one morning recently while waiting for a train on Metro-North's Hudson Line. ''I find parking lots more crowded. Seats are getting harder to come by.''
 No one expects the trend to buckle. In the meantime, the average regular-grade gasoline price nationwide, about $4.10 a gallon on June 30, is projected to remain more than $4 until the fourth quarter of 2009, according to the federal Energy Information Administration.
 Rosalyn Johnson, a registered nurse from Westbury on Long Island, is so convinced high gas prices are here to stay that she recently opted to take a job in Manhattan over one in Central Islip, closer to home.
 ''It was more economical to take the job in the city. It would cost me more to drive to Central Islip than to buy a $211 monthly train pass,'' she said while waiting for an eastbound Long Island Rail Road train at Pennsylvania Station.
 Ms. Johnson said she has scaled back use of her car and is sensitive to wasting fuel. The other night she was running her car engine at idle while dropping off some friends who were slow to say their goodbyes. ''I kept saying, '$4.29 a gallon, $4.29 a gallon, $4.29 a gallon,' '' she said.
 Even if gasoline prices fall, commuters are unlikely to return to their cars, said Virginia Miller, spokeswoman for the American Public Transportation Association. In the summer of 2006 gasoline prices hit $3 a gallon and mass transit use surged, she said. When fuel prices later retreated, ''people could have easily gone back to their cars, but they didn't,'' she said. ''It was as if they had made a new habit.'' 
 Heather Moore, 36, a claims supervisor from Lake Hopatcong, jumped from road to rail in January when New Jersey Transit opened a new station in Mount Arlington near her home. Her company, Maersk Inc. in Madison, pays $115 of her monthly train ticket, leaving her with a balance of $39. Station parking is free, as is a shuttle that transports her to work. ''I wouldn't drive anymore,'' she said while waiting for a train at Convent Station. ''My ride was the worst you can find -- 287 to 80 to 15.''
 Many people said they would love to take a train or bus to work, but weren't served by a convenient connection.
 Some of them have figured out ingenious solutions. Take Rosalind Jordan, who organized a 12-person van pool this spring that cut her monthly commuting cost to $39 from $259. She lives in Iselin, and works at the BASF Corporation in Florham Park, a distance of about 30 miles. Until April she car-pooled with a colleague and shared expenses. Still, ''the cost of gas was killing us,'' she said. ''It had gotten to the point where something had to give.''
 Mrs. Jordan, a customer care representative, knew of one van pool that traveled from Pennsylvania to BASF in Florham Park. She inquired at work, and was directed to TransOptions, a nonprofit transportation management association in Cedar Knolls. It works with employers to assist workers looking to cut commuting costs.
 She posted notices at work, asking if anyone was interested in van-pooling from Iselin to Florham Park. 
 ''Immediately, I got a good six solid passengers,'' she said. ''We needed 12. I started talking it up. Everybody was like, 'I'm in.' '' 
 Eight of the 12 agreed to serve as drivers on weekly shifts. ''Not everybody has to drive,'' she said. ''Some are scary-type drivers, and they don't want to.'' 
 Mrs. Jordan gamely volunteered to be the first. ''Everybody was a little afraid to drive,'' she said. ''I got in there and said, 'Let's go!' When the others saw me doing it, they knew they could do it, too.''
 After four months, the van pool has evolved into a reliable operation, with few rules. The van departs at 7:05 a.m. sharp, although the drivers are willing to cut a little slack for the passenger who lives off Exit 5 of the New Jersey Turnpike.
 ''There are some conversations about what's going on in the world, a couple laughs, and then everyone gets quiet,'' Mrs. Jordan said. ''The atmosphere is good. And the economics are just phenomenal.''
 Other suburban dwellers, like Jane Gross, of Oceanside, are fighting the expense of commuting by downsizing their cars. Mrs. Gross, 59, a human resources manager, commutes 25 miles one way from her home in Nassau County to her office in Melville in Suffolk County. She said she would love to take the train, but has no convenient connection.
 In the spring Mrs. Gross listened, horrified, as people predicted the price of a gallon of gasoline would go up to $5. Although 12 payments remained on her Honda CR-V, she decided to buy a smaller car. In May she placed an order for a fuel-efficient Smart car. 
 ''My monthly gas costs will go down from $250 to $100, but they're so backlogged I won't get it until January,'' she said recently, waiting for an L.I.R.R. train home from a day in Manhattan.
 Her husband, John Gross, an auto body specialist who works a few miles from home, has taken things even further, she said.
 ''He's walking back and forth to work on certain days of the week, except when it's raining,'' she said. ''He had a knee replacement May 6 and started walking as therapy. Then he realized it was saving him a lot of money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THRILL OF THE RIDE: Dr. David Muller bicycles over the George Washington Bridge upper roadway on the bicycle lane heading into Manhattan to his job at Mount Sinai Hospital.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 THE RAIL CONNECTION: Morning rush-hour commuters at the Walnut Street Station in Montclair waiting to board an incoming New Jersey Transit train heading into Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ8) DRAWING (NJ1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); TRENDS (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (66%); CITIES (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



695 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: On the Stage, No More Mr. Tough Guy

BYLINE: By MARK BLANKENSHIP

 BODY:
MUSICAL theater in New York is being dominated by a certain type of man. He's in the Public Theater's revival of ''Hair,'' which began performances at the Delacorte Theater on Tuesday, and he's headlining ''[title of show]'' and ''In the Heights.'' He's in recent closures like ''Passing Strange'' and in soon-to-open work like ''Billy Elliot.'' Frankly, he's everywhere. 
 ''He'' is a lead character defined by vulnerability, confusion and sincerity. 
 Kevin McCollum, the Broadway producer, has noticed him. ''Right now, I'd say we're seeing a lot of males that don't fit into the male stereotype,'' he said from his Midtown office. ''Their pursuit is not romance. Their pursuit is a definition of their selves.''
 These guys aren't new of course. Claude and Berger, the sensitive hippies at the center of ''Hair,'' first appeared in 1967, and Mr. McCollum himself shepherded ''Rent'' to Broadway in 1996, complete with men who flout macho conventions. But this is certainly a boom time for unconventional heroes.
 Take ''In the Heights,'' co-produced by Mr. McCollum. It centers on a young man's unabashed love for his neighborhood and on his attempts to keep it from changing. Tilt your head the right way and you see a story about a man who defines himself as a homemaker, while the women in his life leave their neighborhood in search of new opportunities. 
 Meanwhile ''[title of show]'' -- again co-produced by Mr. McCollum -- follows two men who write show tunes to express themselves.
 And when ''Billy Elliot'' begins previews at the Imperial Theater on Oct. 1, audiences will see a boy who changes his entire hometown by embracing his love of ballet.
 There is no obvious explanation for the convergence. Stew, writer and co-star of ''Passing Strange,'' said that his male characters are as much a reflection of his own maturity as they are a part of a social movement. In the semi-autobiographical show, which ended its Broadway run last week, his character is an older version of a stubborn young musician, and he warns his younger self about choosing art over family and love. By the end of the show pure feeling trumps macho posturing.
 ''I couldn't have written this in my 20s,'' said Stew, 46. ''Now I realize that I need love and art equally. I'm always saying I want a studio in the backyard and my kid up front in the house.''
 Jonathan Groff, who plays Claude in ''Hair,'' has been similarly struck by his character's brand of masculinity.
 ''It's about experiencing his conflicting emotions instead of driving forward to get something, which is what the leading man is usually doing,'' Mr. Groff said, noting that Claude is ambivalent about both hippie ideals and the Vietnam War.
 Galt MacDermot, ''Hair's'' composer, said that when he and James Rado and Gerome Ragni, the librettists and lyricists, wrote the show, they were tired of men always having to be cowboys. ''Men are what they are,'' he said. ''And like anyone else they need the freedom to express that.''
 Mr. MacDermot said he believed that the pressure that inspired ''Hair'' was also driving today's influx of gentle heroes. ''There was a war on then, and there's a war on now,'' he said. ''It makes everybody ask: 'What are men? What are they for?' ''
 Mr. McCollum said America's blue state-red state mentality may also be pushing artists to create soul-baring characters.
 ''We have a lot of writers who are saying, 'I need to tell you a story about what it means to me to be an American,' '' he said. 
 The trend may also have international implications. Lee Hall, who wrote the book and lyrics for ''Billy Elliot,'' as well as the screenplay for the 2000 film, finds global resonance in a character like Billy, who dances through a town where a failing mining industry has put most men out of a job. 
 Mr. Hall said that Billy embodies the ''frustrated creativity'' of men who are raised to be tough but that the character is also an economic symbol. In countries like Britain and the United States, he said, products offered to consumers are being made elsewhere. ''You're changing from a society of making things to a more service-oriented and entertainment-oriented society,'' he continued. ''And that requires skills that are more often thought of as feminine or soft. All the value of being a hard guy means nothing now.'' 
 Billy's community has to embrace him, Mr. Hall said, ''because the men are going to have to become like Billy if they want to survive.''
 The surge in heartfelt heroes probably is related to the economic anxiety Mr. Hall describes, as well as to war, national identity and artistic maturity. But if that explains why artists create these characters, does it explain why audiences enjoy them?
 Maybe. Oskar Eustis, the Public Theater's artistic director, argued that patrons were embracing less macho characters because they were craving gentleness in the face of political and economic problems. ''If I were to be hopeful about it,'' he said, ''I'd say it's a sign that people want to go to the theater and find characters who can help them be hopeful about what can happen in their lives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Groff plays Claude in the Public Theater's revival of ''Hair,'' one of many plays this year featuring vulnerable male characters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER REVIEWS (91%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); WRITERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



696 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Nothing to Eat

BYLINE: By JOHN T. EDGE. 
John T. Edge, director of the Southern Foodways Alliance at the University of Mississippi, is general editor of ''Cornbread Nation 4: The Best of Southern Food Writing.''

 BODY:
THE END OF FOOD 
 By Paul Roberts. 
 390 pp. Houghton Mifflin Company. $26. 
 Paul Roberts's prophetic and well-received 2004 book, ''The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World,'' anticipated the current energy crisis. Now he's moved on to what we put in our mouths. Roberts's new book, ''The End of Food,'' which takes into account a vertiginous pile of recent developments -- including the so-called tortilla riots of 2007, during which thousands took to the Mexico City streets to protest the rapidly rising cost of maize -- may prove no less prescient. 
 A contributor to Harper's and other magazines, Roberts sketches a dire present and ponders a bleak future. Readers with a sci-fi bent might, upon completing this book, decide that the 1973 film ''Soylent Green'' should no longer be viewed as merely a schlocky doomsday vehicle for Charlton Heston, but as an almost plausible peek at the year 2022, when global warming and overpopulation have rendered the earth inhospitable to most plants and animals, and steak and strawberries are black market goods consumed only by the super-rich. 
 We have reached the end of the ''golden age'' of food, Roberts writes. No longer do the things we eat ''grow only more plentiful, more secure, more nutritious and simply better with each passing year.'' Instead, E. coli outbreaks ''have almost become an annual autumn ritual,'' and a new day is arriving when ''cost and convenience are dominant, the social meal is obsolete'' and the act of eating has ''devolved into an exercise in irritation, confusion and guilt.''
 Roberts's worst-case scenario isn't tomatoes devoid of taste. It's a ''perfect storm of sequential or even simultaneous food-related calamities.'' Climate change and spiraling population growth have him wondering not just ''whether we'll be able to feed 9.5 billion people by 2070, but how long we can continue to meet the demands of the 6.5 billion alive today.'' 
 Roberts delivers a litany of terrors small and large: ''Arable land is growing scarcer. Inputs like pesticides and synthetic nitrogen fertilizers are increasingly expensive. Soil degradation and erosion from hyperintensive farming are costing millions of acres of farmland a year. Water supplies are being rapidly depleted in parts of the world, even as the rising price of petroleum -- the lifeblood of industrial agriculture -- is calling into question the entire agribusiness model.''
 Agribusiness and the industrial food it engenders have, of course, already attracted serious critics. Eric Schlosser's ''Fast Food Nation'' exposed the ills of a lowest-common-denominator diet of burgers and fries. Michael Pollan's ''Omnivore's Dilemma'' traced among other things the perils of high-fructose corn syrup and grain-fed cattle. Both were works of literary journalism, well-reported and well-written meta-polemics that asked tough questions of both producers and consumers. 
 But they didn't finish the job. What eaters (and readers) still need, Roberts argues, ''is a way to consider such critical questions and concerns in a larger, more global context.'' Roberts aims to go Schlosser and Pollan one better. ''The End of Food'' wants to be what marketing wonks call a category killer, a book that, through its wide-angled scope, trumps all other takes on the subject. 
 He gets about halfway there. Roberts is an expert at marshaling facts and collating figures, but a workmanlike writer. He travels to, among other food crisis flashpoints, Kenya and China. No matter the locale, Roberts measures inputs and outputs. And he draws conclusions from the differences. Our modern ''food system can only truly be understood as an economic system,'' he argues, ''one that, like all economic systems, has winners and losers, suffers periodic and occasionally profound instability and is plagued by the same inherent and irreducible gap between what we demand and what is actually supplied.'' 
 Roberts isolates a number of culprits. Wal-Mart, for example, where America spends 21 cents of every food dollar and where some experts say we will soon be spending 50 cents of that dollar, continues to drive down retail prices to unsustainably low levels. One consequence is that food is becoming, once again, a commodity of ''lesser quality and nutritional value.'' 
 And there's the food industry itself, which has long funneled research dollars into scarf-and-bolt goods of the high-flavor and high-fat sort. Roberts cites a report projecting that the true measure of success will soon be whether foodstuffs ''can be consumed one-handed, and whether packaging causes a mess.''
 Then there's the issue of where, exactly, we get our protein. ''The Hummerlike inefficiency of the beef cow,'' Roberts writes, ''never really mattered when corn and other feed grains were cheap.'' That was then. Now, as China and other nations grow more prosperous and adopt Western-style diets, beef cows -- which must eat 20 pounds of grain to gain one pound of flesh -- are becoming ecological pariahs, gobbling up corn and driving up prices for all goods that require corn, which, a perusal of Pollan will remind you, is in nearly every modern product, from fuel for our bodies to fuel for our cars. 
 Consumers are largely left out of the dialogue here. In Roberts's book, they are statistical simulacra. To understand the motivations of urban eaters, who view dining ''as a hobby and as a vehicle for socializing and fun,'' he cites (groan) a PowerPoint presentation from the 2006 meeting of the American Meat Science Association. 
 Late in the narrative, Roberts reveals himself to be not a wild-eyed locavore, intent upon growing his own food and transforming the world economy in the process, but a moderate. In an epilogue, he suggests that we eat less meat and more farmed fish; support regional, instead of merely local, food systems; and work within the system to gain support for sustainable farming methods, while engaging the scientific community in open and honest debate about the possibilities of genetically modified crops. 
 After hundreds of pages of alarm-sounding and rabble-rousing, moderation seems like a curious position for a man who declares that our food production and distribution system is ''so focused on cost reduction and rising volume that it makes a billion of us fat, lets another billion go hungry, and all but invites food-borne pathogens to become global epidemics.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Flood-damaged corn in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GREEDY/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); LAND DEGRADATION (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); RIOTS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); FERTILIZERS (64%); PESTICIDES (60%); E COLI (50%)

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (77%)

TITLE: End of Food, The (Book)>; End of Food, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



697 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Clips

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
Coupons.com
 The coupon is a venerable form, dating back to the turn of the 20th century, and possibly because of that, there's something musty and even corny about it. Clipping little pieces of paper to save 50 cents here and a dollar there just seems out of step with the contemporary high-tech mechanics of consumption. And indeed, coupon redemption has been falling steadily for more than a decade -- until, it turns out, relatively recently. Of course, it's the sluggish economy that's inspiring this return to thriftiness -- along with a newer digital iteration of coupon culture. 
 One collector of coupon data is CMS Inc., a firm based in Winston-Salem, N.C., that tracks manufacturer coupons of the sort used by grocery shoppers (as opposed to, say, retailer-specific or fast-food coupons). Its figures show that in 1998 consumers redeemed about 4.7 billion coupons. The number of coupons that manufacturers issued has gone up and down since then, but the redemption number fell steadily every year until last year, when it leveled off at about 2.6 billion. According to the Promotion Marketing Association Coupon Council, less than 1 percent of coupons are distributed digitally -- which seems a little surprising given that coupons-on-the-Web companies have been around for years. Perhaps it was the positive economic mood that held them back, but that's changing: the online data tracker Hitwise says visits to a variety of thrift-focused sites are up by about a third over the past year, and the likes of Coupons.com and more recent entries like CouponWinner.com are lately reporting big spikes. 
 Coupons.com was founded in 1998. Visit the site, and you'll find dozens of offers much like those you would find in the Sunday paper -- $1 off Go-Gurt, 75 cents off a bottle of Wisk, $2 off a bag of Peet's Coffee -- except that you have to print them yourself. The company, Coupons Inc., also works with manufacturers as well as newspapers to make coupons available on their sites. According to the founder, Steven Boal, traffic has grown steadily in recent years, but user activity really started to climb last September as consumers got ''more aggressive'' -- in particular, the printing out and actual redemption of coupons for everyday products like milk or cereal has soared. 
 CouponWinner.com also picked up momentum around the same time. The site puts more emphasis on e-commerce discounts, for everything from contact lenses to office supplies to clothes. Further down toward the grass roots, a variety of coupon bloggers are also claiming bigger audiences, and some have been leveraging their online ''frugalista'' status by selling thrift-advice books or creating pay-to-join shopping-tip programs.
 Peter Meyers, a vice president for marketing at the consumer-data firm Icom's Shopper's Voice, says companies issue more coupons during slow-economy periods, on the theory that shoppers become more susceptible to brand switching. For manufacturers, the goal is both to shore up the loyalty of current customers and to poach new ones. But now is the first time in years that shoppers are actually responding. This is partly because marketers have undermined coupon effectiveness by shortening expiration dates and other actions, Meyers argues, but it's also no doubt because the consumer outlook during the current slowdown is more dire. 
 That's happy news for Coupons.com -- if not for, you know, the rest of us -- because it happens to coincide with the company's latest tactic, which is a project called Brandcaster. This is intended to serve up coupon offers to Web surfers much the way Google serves up ads related to search terms. Meanwhile, manufacturers and retailers are testing coupon variations via mobile phones, Facebook and other tech-forward delivery and targeting methods. Boal, Coupon.com's founder, predicts that these digital clipping habits will persist even when the economy brightens again. ''People will have learned a new behavior,'' he says.
 And after all, even traditional clippers have always been motivated by something besides the money -- as anyone who listened to Mom announce her weekly coupon-savings totals knows quite well. ''They see themselves as the head of the household, and they pride themselves'' on skillful saving, Meyers points out. Maybe the modern, tech-enabled consumer remembers Mom's frugalista boasts as puzzling behavior in a less-sophisticated era. But with $4 gas and rising prices, it's something to think back on with fresh understanding as that Peet's coupon slides out of the printer. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COUPONS (90%); RETAIL COUPONS (90%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (79%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (77%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (73%); RETAILERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%)

COMPANY: COUPONS INC (92%); CMS INC (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3489 ORDNANCE & ACCESSORIES, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (71%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



698 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: In Zimbabwe Power-Sharing Talks, Who Will Get the Real Power?

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
As negotiators for President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe and the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai began power-sharing talks on Thursday in South Africa, they confronted one seemingly unbridgeable divide: which man would have the real executive power in a unity government?
 Mr. Mugabe's governing party, ZANU-PF, insisted that Mr. Mugabe, as the victor in a runoff that has been denounced internationally as a sham, would name any new government, The Herald, a state-owned newspaper, reported Friday.
 But the opposition says Mr. Tsvangirai, who outpolled Mr. Mugabe in March elections and dropped out of the runoff, citing murderous violence against supporters, must be in charge. ''Whatever transition we come up with, it must be led by Morgan Tsvangirai,'' Thokozani Khupe, vice president of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, said in an interview on Saturday.
 A collapse of the talks could lead to an accelerating implosion of Zimbabwe's economy and the flight of millions more people from Mr. Mugabe's increasingly repressive rule into neighboring countries, potentially destabilizing the region. The Mugabe government's economic isolation intensified last week as the United States and the European Union tightened sanctions. 
 But a settlement that left Mr. Mugabe or his allies in power would be a blow to democratic aspirations on the continent after an election that independent observers from across Africa unanimously concluded was neither free nor fair.
 One of the most remarkable changes to emerge from Zimbabwe's violent election season is that leaders in Zambia and Botswana have resoundingly broken the silence of Mr. Mugabe's peers in the region about the human rights abuses committed by his governing party. 
 Phandu Skelemani, the foreign minister of neighboring Botswana, which has refused to recognize Mr. Mugabe's legitimacy, said in an interview on Wednesday that his country would not be party to what he called ''the raping of democracy'' in Zimbabwe. 
 With rumors swirling that Mr. Mugabe, 84, and Mr. Tsvangirai, 56, are close to a deal in talks that are supposed to last only two weeks, Ms. Khupe, a member of Parliament from Bulawayo, Zimbabwe's second city, said she had not been informed yet about the progress of the negotiations. But she noted that any agreement from the talks, which are being held at a secret location in Pretoria, would have to be approved by the party's leadership. 
 Some African and Western officials worry the opposition may yet get outfoxed by Mr. Mugabe, who has kept a tight grip on power for 28 years.
 Shadowing the current talks is the memory of an earlier set of unity negotiations. In 1987, after years in which historians estimated that Mr. Mugabe's military forces killed at least 10,000 civilians in the stronghold of his rival Joshua Nkomo, Mr. Nkomo joined the government, allowing Mr. Mugabe to further solidify his hold on power.
 The current talks, too, were preceded by a violent onslaught. Since April, according to doctors who treated the wounded and tallied the dead, thousands of Mr. Tsvangirai's supporters have been assaulted by Mr. Mugabe's enforcers and more than 100 have been killed, decimating the opposition's grass-roots leadership. 
 ''Tsvangirai may be lured into accepting a power-sharing arrangement which would lead to Mugabe succeeding himself through puppets from ZANU-PF,'' Raila Odinga, the Kenyan prime minister, said in an interview on Thursday. ''The best option for Tsvangirai is to insist that Mugabe becomes a ceremonial president with executive powers vested in the prime minister'' -- a position that would be held by Mr. Tsvangirai.
 Mr. Odinga speaks from his own experience with unity talks. Once the Kenyan opposition leader, he became prime minister in February after a deal brokered by Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general. It followed a deeply flawed election that some observers believe had been stolen from Mr. Odinga.
 Mr. Odinga, who has met with Zimbabwean opposition leaders including Mr. Tsvangirai in recent months, said he had sent a senior official from his own party to Johannesburg to advise the opposition during the talks.
 Mr. Skelemani, the Botswana foreign minister, said the fundamental issue for Zimbabwe was who controlled the executive powers held by the president under the country's Constitution. Referring to the possibility that Mr. Mugabe's negotiators would try ''to do a Nkomo'' on Mr. Tsvangirai, Mr. Skelemani warned that the opposition would ''risk emasculation'' if it allowed Mr. Mugabe to retain the presidency. Asked about Mr. Mugabe's stated desire to hold on to power, Mr. Skelemani replied, ''What power? Power to run the country into the ground?''
 Botswana's increasingly urgent criticism of Mr. Mugabe, along with similar concerns voiced by Zambia's president, Levy Mwanawasa, highlight what Martin Meredith, author of ''The Fate of Africa: A History of Fifty Years of Independence,'' (PublicAffairs, 2005) called an unprecedented development in the 14-nation bloc of the Southern African Development Community. ''This group of S.A.D.C. countries has always tried to hold on to the image of unity,'' he said. ''This is shattering it.''
 Since Mr. Mwanawasa suffered a stroke last month, Botswana has become the leading critic in detailed public statements about the recent election violence and rigging. ''The atrocities have been corroborated and constitute the necessary evidence to conclude that the credibility and integrity of the election process was compromised,'' according to the report of Botswana's election observer team.
 Botswana's statements carry moral authority: Its democratic traditions stretch back decades, as does its reputation for spending its wealth from diamonds to improve the public welfare rather than enrich the governing elite.
 Botswana's and Zambia's public statements pose a serious challenge to the ''quiet diplomacy'' pursued by the region's most powerful player, President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, who is mediating the current talks. He has resisted domestic pressure here in South Africa to criticize Mr. Mugabe, repeatedly greeting him in recent months with a handshake and a smile.
 Mr. Mbeki held on to control of the Zimbabwe mediation with the endorsement of the African Union on July 1. But in a meeting of African heads of state in Egypt, Mr. Mugabe listened with consternation as officials representing Liberia, Nigeria and Botswana, among others, delivered humiliating critiques of the political violence that marred the election, according to several officials who were present. He counterattacked, accusing his critics of failings of their own.
 ''You're talking about somebody who's been in power 30 years,'' Liberia's president, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, said in a recent interview. ''Support wears thin.'' Ms. Johnson-Sirleaf, a Harvard-educated economist who became Africa's first female elected head of state in 2005, added, ''There's a lot going on in S.A.D.C. and the A.U. behind the scenes, much more than was reflected in the open statements.''
 Botswana's vice president, Mompati S. Merafhe, sitting just two seats from Mr. Mugabe, said the Zimbabwean leader should be suspended from the African Union, Mr. Skelemani said. 
 Botswana seems to have been greatly affected by its ringside view of the Zimbabwe crisis. When Mr. Tsvangirai fled Zimbabwe in the middle of the night on April 8, just 10 days after the general election, citing death threats, he crossed into Botswana and was granted refuge. 
 That same month, Botswana's new president, Seretse Khama Ian Khama, asked Mr. Mwanawasa, president of Zambia and the leader of the Southern African Development Community, to convene an emergency summit meeting of regional heads of state on Zimbabwe, Mr. Skelemani said. Subsequently, victims of the political violence began streaming into Botswana.
 The accounts its election observers brought back from Zimbabwe deepened Botswana's official revulsion. Ruth Seretse, the deputy director of Botswana's directorate on corruption and economic crime, led the 50-person observer team. She said in an interview that she had seen ZANU-PF youth militia members beating people at a rally for Mr. Tsvangirai in Harare.
 ''People ran for their lives,'' she said. ''The riot police just stood there.'' 
 For two weeks, she monitored faxes and text messages from Botswanan observers deployed across the country. Some of the most disturbing reports came from Bakwena Oitsile, a retired major general in Botswana's army. He said in an interview that in one village in Zimbabwe's Mashonaland West Province, he had found 14 houses, as well as grain stores, burned and reduced to ashes. Pregnant women and children there had nothing left but the clothes on their backs. 
 In another village in the province, he arrived just hours after an attack on June 17. In one hut, he discovered the body of a man just beaten to death and his wife, still alive, with a deep cut on her head. Another woman's index finger had been cut off. Her hand was still raw and untreated.
 ''She was in great pain when we were there,'' he said. ''She was screaming.'' 
 He said of what he witnessed in Zimbabwe: ''I will never forget it. It's all in my heart and head.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Robert Mugabe, left, and Morgan Tsvangirai in Harare, Zimbabwe, on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TSVANGIRAYI MUKWAZHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HISTORY (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); APPROVALS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); BOTSWANA (92%); AFRICA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



699 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Commute: Demand for Rides Soars

BYLINE: By MARY JO PATTERSON

 BODY:
Two months ago, Michele Martin ditched her 10-mile commute from Stamford to Greenwich in favor of riding Metro-North. Gasoline prices were the main reason, she said, but not the only one. ''I would see a billboard once in a while saying, 'Do one thing.' That cinched it for me,'' she said.
 Now, she doubts that she would ever go back to driving.
 The adjustment took Ms. Martin, 49, a reference librarian at the Greenwich Library, about a week. First, she said, she familiarized herself with a shuttle that runs between her apartment building and the Stamford train station, actually meant to serve her building's commercial tenants. It runs every 15 minutes. Then she grew accustomed to the Metro-North train's mysterious ways, she said, learning that the 8:18 a.m. really arrives around 8:21. These days she grabs the shuttle at 8:05 a.m., catches the 8:18 train, arrives in Greenwich at 8:35, and closes the gap to the library with a 15-minute walk. 
 Her new commute is 10 minutes longer, but costs only $4 a day. It has reduced her gasoline expenses by two-thirds. As for the driving, Ms. Martin said there was nothing to miss. ''Being in the car was kind of lonely,'' she said.
 Ms. Martin is among the thousands of people across the metropolitan area who are changing their commuting habits, according to data gathered from public transportation agencies. Even though the number of riders generally declines during the summer vacation months, the figures show weekday ridership has increased by about 5 percent over all since Jan. 1, while bridge and tunnel traffic has decreased by 4 to 5 percent. 
 In areas not well served by mass transit, demand for car pools, van pools, shuttles and park-and-ride lots has soared and is still building, according to transportation agencies that provide the services. Some transit operators are even recording significantly increased ridership on weekends this summer. New Jersey Transit trains had a record number of riders on Saturday, July 12, for example, when a free Bon Jovi concert was held in Central Park and the Mets played at home.
 No one can say for sure what is propelling the trend, but with gasoline costing $4 a gallon or more, the answer would seem to be a no-brainer. 
 ''There's no question we're gaining some ridership out of the high prices,'' said Helena E. Williams, president of the Long Island Rail Road. The L.I.R.R. carried 4.6 percent more passengers from January to May of this year than during the same period in 2007. ''What's significant is that we are seeing this increase despite a fare increase in March and falloff in employment growth.''
 Transit managers say they are bracing for September, when vacationing commuters return in full force, especially on the already-jammed PATH lines, the New Haven Line of Metro-North and the stretch of rail between Penn Station in Newark and Penn Station in New York. ''We have already taken up every train slot available during the peak hour into Manhattan,'' said Richard R. Sarles, executive director of New Jersey Transit, which shares those rails with Amtrak. ''The trains are as long as possible.''
 To people like Ken Brettschneider, 59, a lighting consultant from Mount Kisco, N.Y., the crush is already obvious. 
 ''Suddenly, there's more and more people,'' he said one morning recently while waiting for a train on Metro-North's Hudson Line. ''I find parking lots more crowded. Seats are getting harder to come by.''
 No one expects the trend to buckle. In the meantime, the average regular-grade gasoline price nationwide, about $4.10 a gallon on June 30, is projected to remain more than $4 until the fourth quarter of 2009, according to the federal Energy Information Administration.
 Rosalyn Johnson, a registered nurse from Westbury on Long Island, is so convinced high gas prices are here to stay that she recently opted to take a job in Manhattan over one in Central Islip, closer to home.
 ''It was more economical to take the job in the city. It would cost me more to drive to Central Islip than to buy a $211 monthly train pass,'' she said while waiting for an eastbound LIRR train at Penn Station.
 Ms. Johnson said she has scaled back use of her car and is sensitive to wasting fuel. The other night she was running her car engine at idle while dropping off some friends who were slow to say their good-byes. ''I kept saying, '$4.29 a gallon, $4.29 a gallon, $4.29 a gallon,' '' she said.
 Even if gasoline prices fall, commuters are unlikely to return to their cars, said Virginia Miller, spokeswoman for the American Public Transportation Association. In the summer of 2006 gasoline prices hit $3 a gallon and mass transit use surged, she said. When fuel prices later retreated, ''people could have easily gone back to their cars, but they didn't,'' she said. ''It was as if they had made a new habit.'' 
 Heather Moore, 36, a claims supervisor from Lake Hopatcong, N.J., jumped from road to rail in January when New Jersey Transit opened a new station in Mount Arlington near her home. Her company, Maersk Inc. in Madison, pays $115 of her monthly train ticket, leaving her with a balance of $39. Station parking is free, as is a shuttle that transports her to work. ''I wouldn't drive anymore,'' she said while waiting for a train at Convent Station. ''My ride was the worst you can find -- 287 to 80 to 15.''
 Many people said they would love to take a train or bus to work, but weren't served by a convenient connection.
 Some of them have figured out ingenious solutions. Take Rosalind Jordan, who organized a 12-person van pool this spring that cut her monthly commuting cost to $39 from $259. She lives in Iselin, N.J., and works at the BASF Corporation in Florham Park, a distance of about 30 miles. Until April she car-pooled with a colleague and shared expenses. Still, ''the cost of gas was killing us,'' she said. ''It had gotten to the point where something had to give.''
 Mrs. Jordan, a customer care representative, knew of one van pool that traveled from Pennsylvania to BASF in Florham Park. She inquired at work, and was directed to TransOptions, a nonprofit transportation management association in Cedar Knolls, N.J. It works with employers to assist workers looking to cut commuting costs.
 She posted notices at work, asking if anyone was interested in van-pooling from Iselin to Florham Park. 
 ''Immediately, I got a good six solid passengers,'' she said. ''We needed 12. I started talking it up. Everybody was like, 'I'm in.' '' 
 Eight of the 12 agreed to serve as drivers on weekly shifts. ''Not everybody has to drive,'' she said. ''Some are scary-type drivers, and they don't want to.'' 
 Mrs. Jordan gamely volunteered to be the first. ''Everybody was a little afraid to drive,'' she said. ''I got in there and said, 'Let's go!' When the others saw me doing it, they knew they could do it, too.''
 After four months, the van pool has evolved into a reliable operation, with few rules. The van departs at 7:05 a.m. sharp, although the drivers are willing to cut a little slack for the passenger who lives off Exit 5 of the New Jersey Turnpike.
 ''There are some conversations about what's going on in the world, a couple laughs, and then everyone gets quiet,'' Mrs. Jordan said. ''The atmosphere is good. And the economics are just phenomenal.''
 Other suburban dwellers, like Jane Gross, of Oceanside, are fighting the expense of commuting by downsizing their cars. Mrs. Gross, 59, a human resources manager, commutes 25 miles one way from her home in Nassau County to her office in Melville in Suffolk County. She said she would love to take the train, but has no convenient connection.
 In the spring Mrs. Gross listened, horrified, as people predicted the price of a gallon of gasoline would go up to $5. Although 12 payments remained on her Honda CR-V, she decided to buy a smaller car. In May she placed an order for a fuel-efficient Smart car. 
 ''My monthly gas costs will go down from $250 to $100, but they're so backlogged I won't get it until January,'' she said recently, waiting for an L.I.R.R. train home from a day in Manhattan.
 Her husband, John Gross, an auto body specialist who works a few miles from home, has taken things even further, she said.
 ''He's walking back and forth to work on certain days of the week, except when it's raining,'' she said. ''He had a knee replacement May 6 and started walking as therapy. Then he realized it was saving him a lot of money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ELBOW TO ELBOW: Morning rush-hour commuters arriving at Grand Central Terminal. Public transportation figures show weekday ridership has increased by about 5 percent over all since Jan. 1.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 THE RAIL CONNECTION: Morning rush-hour commuters arriving from points north at Grand Central Terminal. For many people, it has become more economical to take the train to work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT6) DRAWING (CT1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LIBRARIANS (76%); TRENDS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); CITIES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (65%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (62%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (55%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



700 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: ON LANGUAGE; Familiar words from unfamiliar speakers.

BYLINE: By FRED R. SHAPIRO. 
In this election year we can expect to hear much use of, and commentary about, political quotations. When you hear candidates or pundits opine on where these sayings come from, though, be aware that origin stories, no matter how confidently offered, are usually flat-out wrong; indeed, the more confidently they are offered, the more wrong they probably are. In compiling The Yale Book of Quotations, I discovered that many of the most famous political quotes were coined by someone other than the person credited by conventional wisdom and even standard reference works. Fred R. Shapiro, an associate library director and lecturer in legal research at Yale Law School, is the editor of The Yale Book of Quotations (Yale University Press). William Safire is on vacation.

 BODY:
FOR BETTER OR WORSE, our culture relies on quotations -- literary passages, Bible verses, movie lines, song lyrics, catchphrases, proverbs -- to transmit the wit and wisdom of the past and the present and to lend resonance to our everyday discourse. Perhaps the most important are the political quotes, the sound bites, slogans, zingers and bloopers that can win or lose elections and shape our arguments and opinions.
For example, we all think we know that Harry Truman originated ''The buck stops here.'' But we are all mistaken. Truman did receive a ''gadget'' displaying these four words made at the Federal Reformatory at El Reno, Okla., mailed to him in 1945 and then displayed by him on his desk. A search of electronic newspaper databases, however, pulls up The Reno Evening Gazette of Oct. 1, 1942, with a photograph of a sign clearly reading ''The Buck Stops Here'' on the desk of Army Col. A. B. Warfield. 
 We are similarly certain that Everett Dirksen coined ''A billion here, a billion there, pretty soon it begins to add up to real money.'' Yet the Dirksen Congressional Center, scouring the Illinois senator's audiotapes and transcripts, news clippings and speech notes, has found no concrete evidence of his uttering these words, only uncorroborated attributions after his death in 1969. On the other hand, a historical database search of The New York Times yields a Jan. 10, 1938, Topics of the Times column with the lines: ''Well, now, about this new budget. It's a billion here and a billion there, and by and by it begins to mount up into money.'' No mention of Dirksen.
 Money, and the economy more generally, is a crucial election issue that is often discussed using famous adages. One of the most famous is ''There's no such thing as a free lunch,'' widely ascribed to the late economist Milton Friedman, who employed it as the title of a 1975 book. Sophisticated research methods find much older occurrences. The acronym TANSTAAFL (for ''There ain't no such thing as a free lunch'') appears as the slogan of a revolt by lunar colonists against their earthly overlords in the sci-fi writer Robert Heinlein's 1966 novel, ''The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress,'' and still earlier in the title of a 1949 book by Pierre Dos Utt, ''Tanstaafl: A Plan for a New Economic World Order.''
 Also in 1949, an editorial by Walter Morrow in The San Francisco News (June 1) used the ''ain't'' version as the punch line of an economics joke. The editorial states that it is a reprint of an editorial from 11 years before, but hunting through the microfilmed News from 1937 to 1939 uncovers no such article. Again the most powerful findings are produced by online newspaper archives, with ''There is no free lunch'' popping up in The Oelwein (Iowa) Daily Register on Nov. 25, 1942, and the following published in the again-pathbreaking Reno Evening Gazette on Jan. 22, 1942: ''Mr. Wallace neglects the fact that such a thing as a 'free' lunch never existed. Until man acquires the power of creation, someone will always have to pay for a free lunch.''
 The sharpest point of American political-economic contention is taxation. The tax quotation most likely to be cited on the campaign trail is Benjamin Franklin's ''Nothing can be said to be certain, except death and taxes.'' Or is that Edward Ward's line? Through the Eighteenth Century Collections Online book collection, Barry Popik, a researcher, found ''Death and Taxes, they are certain'' in Ward's ''Dancing Devils ''(1724). Also in ECCO, in Christopher Bullock's ''Cobler of Preston'' (1716), is the sentence, '' 'Tis impossible to be sure of any thing but Death and Taxes.''
 Surely some of our cherished political-quotation stories must be accurate. What about Vice President Thomas R. Marshall's immortal crack, ''What this country really needs is a good 5-cent cigar''? The usual story goes that Marshall, in his capacity as presiding officer of the Senate, was enduring a tedious debate on the needs of the country. He then interjected the one-liner about cigars. Quotation dictionaries typically date this incident precisely to reports in newspapers of Jan. 4, 1920. The Marshall attribution, though, is blown out of the water by another electronically derived newspaper citation. The Hartford Daily Courant, on Sept. 22, 1875, printed ''What this country really needs is a good 5-cent cigar'' with a notation that the original source was The New York Mail.
 The Yale Book of Quotations disproves many other accepted origins. The next time you hear a commentator credit ''All politics is local'' to Tip O'Neill, impress your friends by mentioning that the line appeared in The Frederick (Md.) News, July 1, 1932, when the future speaker of the House was only a teenage proto-pol. When a candidate refers to Otto von Bismarck's famous maxim about ''laws and sausages,'' grin knowingly, point out that the Iron Chancellor was not associated with that quip until the 1930s and cite The Daily Cleveland Herald, Mar. 29, 1869, quoting the lawyer-poet John Godfrey Saxe that ''Laws, like sausages, cease to inspire respect in proportion as we know how they are made.' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (73%); BUDGETS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



701 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Going for That Presidential Look, but Trying Not to Overdo It

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
He stood in the shadow of the Temple of Hercules, held forth at the Elysee Palace and convened a one-man news conference here on Saturday outside No. 10 Downing Street, all with a simple aim: to make a one-term senator from Illinois look presidential to voters back home in America.
 But along the way to appearing presidential, did Senator Barack Obama cross a political line -- as he and his advisers quietly feared, and some Republicans hoped -- by coming across as too presumptuous?
 ''In terms of raw politics, in the short-term there's just as much downside as upside to a trip like this, even when it's well executed,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview as he flew here from Paris on the final leg of his trip. ''People at home are worried about gas prices, they're worried about mortgage foreclosures -- and for a week they're seeing me traipse around the world? It's easy to paint that as somehow being removed from people's day-to-day problems.'' 
 Leaning forward in his chair aboard a campaign plane freshly emblazoned with his logo, he added, ''We thought it was worth the risk.''
 In many ways, as his journey ended here on Saturday, the answer to that question may prove crucial in gauging what effect, if any, his ambitious overseas trip will have in the final months of the presidential race on the people who will decide the election.
 This is one area where Republicans, who were generally bereft about the day-by-day dispatches of Mr. Obama's international trip -- if not about his candidacy generally -- see an opportunity, if only a glimmer of one. While the country's mood may favor Democrats, there has been no detectable flurry of swing voters rushing to Mr. Obama.
 The quandary for Mr. Obama is that while his trip clearly presented an opportunity for him -- even many Republicans conceded that he seized it masterfully with eight days of appearances in troubled lands, meetings with foreign leaders and visits to soldiers -- it also fueled the questions his critics have used to try to undercut him: whether he is arrogant and taking his election for granted.
 ''With all the breathless coverage from abroad, and with Senator Obama now addressing his speeches to 'the people of the world,' I'm starting to feel a little left out,'' Senator John McCain said in a radio address on Saturday. ''Maybe you are too.''
 While his opponent was on this side of the Atlantic, Mr. McCain sought to tap into Mr. Obama's storyline to avoid being overshadowed. He turned up in a German restaurant in Columbus, Ohio, the day Mr. Obama addressed a crowd of about 200,000 in Berlin. The Republican National Committee ran anti-Obama advertisements in Berlin, Pa., and other namesake villages in Wisconsin and New Hampshire. He also broadcast radio advertisements in London, Ohio, and London, W.Va., while Mr. Obama was here. 
 ''We're in a very tight race, despite having a week of great press and John McCain having had a week of not-so-great press,'' Mr. Obama said in the interview. ''If that doesn't keep you on your toes, I don't know what will.''
 Seldom are presidential candidates afforded such a taste of the job for which they are applying. Mr. Obama settled quickly into the routine, shuttling from country to country for private meetings with more than two dozen world leaders and delivering the speech in Berlin to a crowd that was larger than many American cities in which he has campaigned.
 Even though Mr. Obama's campaign intends to shelve his experiences abroad for now -- the urgent matter at hand this week are trips to Iowa and Missouri, Florida and Texas -- the worldly images are precisely what Mr. Obama hopes voters will begin internalizing in the coming months.
 ''Even if the economy ends up being the dominant issue in the election,'' he said, ''when people go to the polling place in November, for them to have in the back of their mind, all right, here's what it looks like for Obama to be in discussions with other heads of state.''
 Still, the challenge remained for Mr. Obama of trying to balance the positives and negatives that come with adoring comments from leaders like President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who declared: ''Good luck to Barack Obama. If he is chosen, then France will be delighted.''
 In nearly every city on his eight-day trip, Mr. Obama awoke to find a newspaper with his photograph -- and often several -- on the cover. Yet by the time he reached the end of his travels here on Saturday, a moment of political reality set in with a headline in The Times of London that stated, ''Obama's capital tour loses him ground back home.''
 Asked on Saturday about his political fortunes, he said, ''I wouldn't even be surprised if in some polls we saw a little bit of a dip because we've been out of the country for a week.''
 The context of Mr. Obama's abrupt rise -- on the domestic and the international stage -- came into clear view as he waved from the front step of No. 10 Downing Street shortly before lunchtime on Saturday, after a meeting and a stroll outdoors with Prime Minister Gordon Brown. At least 200 reporters and photographers awaited, with several shouting over one another: ''Can we get a wave, sir? Mr. Obama, to your left!''
 It was a chaotic scene compared with his visit here as part of a Congressional delegation in 2005, when he stepped out in near obscurity with Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana. A dozen journalists were on hand, at least half of whom were waiting for someone else. 
 This time, at least 20 aides and advisers to Mr. Obama watched from a short distance as he stood before the microphones. The size of the contingent easily matched one that accompanies a president on a typical foreign trip.
 While Mr. Obama said he knew the risks of ''flying too close to the sun,'' as he put it, his confidence has swelled since he claimed the Democratic nomination early last month. These days, his public statements and news conferences often contain four words -- ''in an Obama administration'' -- as he settles to find the proper measure of confidence and humility in his pitch to voters.
 ''How do I avoid looking presumptuous?'' Mr. Obama said in the interview. ''I'm very much looking forward over the next three months to going back to Iowa, literally and figuratively, and spending a lot of time in town hall meetings, talking to voters and listening to voters.'' 
 The pictures of Mr. Obama's travels dominated the political news of the last week. While Mr. McCain criticized his opponent's itinerary, even though he took a similar foreign trip in March, other Republicans conceded that the imagery could help Mr. Obama shore up one of his leading shortcomings.
 ''Americans are seeing a presidential Obama on the world stage, and he fits comfortably,'' said Alex Castellanos, a Republican strategist who worked in the primary campaign for Mitt Romney.
 With the Normandy coast coming into view through the windows of Mr. Obama's campaign plane as he left France, he smirked when asked to respond to criticism that he was on the cusp of measuring the White House drapes. Turning to an aide, he said, ''Have you been measuring the drapes?''
 ''We don't buy our own hype,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We're always looking around the corner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama after a meeting on Saturday with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain on the last leg of his trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); FORECLOSURE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (53%); OIL & GAS PRICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GORDON BROWN (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



702 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Flight's First Fatal Trip

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
For the 100th anniversary of powered flight, President Bush in 2004 went to Kitty Hawk, N.C., for a re-enactment of the Wright Brothers' feat. September will mark another major centennial in aviation history, though no ceremony has been announced: the first death of an airplane passenger.
 It was Sept. 17, 1908. Orville Wright was showing off a new ''aeroplane'' at Fort Myer, Va., for about 2,000 people, including Army brass. He took up a 26-year-old lieutenant in the Army Signal Corps, Thomas E. Selfridge, ''an aeroplanist himself,'' according to the report in this newspaper. Contemporary accounts vary, but the pair apparently made three and a half successful circuits at an altitude of about 75 feet, before a propeller split and hit other parts of the plane, causing it to crash. Orville was badly hurt.
 Still, the Army was impressed, so much so that the War Department eventually bought the Wrights' invention. Aviation endured, punctuated by occasional catastrophic crashes that have, in the end, made flying much safer, especially in the United States, where the airlines carry some two million people a day on tens of thousands of flights. 
 A big plane could crash tomorrow, of course. On Friday, a Qantas passenger airliner en route from Hong Kong to Melbourne, Australia, was forced to make an emergency landing in Manila after a hole opened in the fuselage of the Boeing 747-400 at 29,000 feet, resulting in a loss of cabin pressure. Experts immediately began a search for the cause, just as the Wright Brothers did 100 years ago after Orville's crash. 
 ''My brothers will pursue these tests until the machines are as near perfect as it is possible to make them,'' Lorin Wright told reporters right after the crash, ''if they are not killed in the meantime.''
 The arc of safety improvements has been dramatic. Boeing, reaching back to the beginning of the jet age, found one fatal accident for every 30,000 commercial jet flights in 1959. By 2006, the rate for all airliner flights had dropped to one accident for every 4.2 million flights by Western-built commercial jets, according to the Flight Safety Foundation, a nonprofit research group. (Lieutenant Selfridge nonetheless stands at the head of a rather long queue. Boeing counted 26,454 deaths of people on commercial jets between 1959 and 2006, and an additional 934 on the ground.)
 Still, an American's chance of dying in a plane crash last year was one in 432,484, according to the National Safety Council, while the chance of dying in a car was one in 19,216. The lifetime risk? According to the council, one in 5,552 for planes, one in 247 for cars. The airplane risk is dominated by smaller planes, often flown by a single pilot who may not be a professional.
 Crash rates in Europe are comparable to those in the United States, and Asia and the Pacific are rapidly improving. Latin America shows some gains. (But don't ask about Africa, where there is minimal ground-based equipment, like navigation aids, weather reporting and radar, and where planes fly with more maintenance problems and are often overloaded.)
 It is very hard today, for instance, if not impossible, to fly an American jetliner into a mountain, because satellites can tell a crew where the plane is even when visibility is zero. But it took the crash of a Boeing 757 flown by American Airlines, in December 1995, to prompt the Federal Aviation Administration and the airlines to make sure all airliners had the new equipment. Advances in navigation would also make it harder for a jetliner to cross into restricted airspace, as Korean Air Lines Flight 007 did over Kamchatka in 1983. A Soviet fighter plane shot it down, killing all 269 aboard.
 Investigators spent months trying to determine the cause of a fatal accident of a Boeing 737 in 1994 before assigning blame to the hydraulic control for the rudder, which they discovered was prone to failure once every million or so hours of flight. The fix has made more than 1,000 Boeing 737s invulnerable to that flaw.
 The crash of a ValuJet airliner in the Florida Everglades in 1996, caused by an onboard fire, resulted in cargo compartments being fitted with fire suppression systems. Earlier this month, the F.A.A. ordered improvements to the fuel tanks of jets to eliminate the potential for a midair explosion like the one that destroyed TWA Flight 800 in 1996. A stray spark had ignited a mixture of gases in the nearly empty center fuel tank of the Boeing 747. 
 Today, new airplanes have ''glass cockpits,'' or flat-panel displays driven by computers, that detect, categorize and prioritize mechanical problems. They have anticollision devices that talk to the corresponding system on other airplanes and decide which plane will climb and which will dive. Lower the landing gear and descend, and some cockpit warning systems will sound an alarm if no runway is in the immediate area. Some cockpits are so automated that they are equipped with an alarm that sounds if the pilots do not manipulate the controls every few minutes -- just to make sure they are awake.
 Improvements on the ground have also been dramatic. Radars, for instance, spot dangerous storms that were once invisible by observing the movement of dust particles in the air. (But not every airport has them. In August, 2005, an Air France plane tried to land in Toronto during a storm, in a condition called wind shear, and ended up skidding off the runaway and catching fire. The airport lacked wind shear warning systems. Fortunately, no one was killed.)
 In a speech to safety experts two years ago, Nicholas A. Sabatini, the top safety official at the F.A.A., said that he was often asked to identify the most frequent causes of airliner crashes. ''In the U.S. and the developed world there are no major causes,'' he said. ''Fatal airline accidents are such rare events that there are no longer what qualifies as 'common causes.' '' The aviation system is now very routine and thus very safe, and despite the economic turmoil of the airline industry, no maintenance-related safety problems have compromised the improving safety trend.
 The progress is notable mostly for what does not happen -- crashes. This is in contrast to the spectacular progress of desktop computers, for instance, which nonetheless ''crash'' every now and then, or marvels like heart transplants or cloned dogs, in which the impressive part is completion of an extraordinary feat. 
 The Wrights' heavier-than-air flying machine was a first-of-a-kind plane to which first-of-a-kind modifications were made, to allow carrying a second person. That plane was, as an engineer would say in today's vernacular, at the beginning of the learning curve. Fundamental elements of its design were evolutionary dead ends, but the technology marched on.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about safety improvements in commercial aviation misstated the year President Bush went to Kitty Hawk, N.C., to commemorate the 100th anniversary of powered flight. It was in 2003, not 2004.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A HARBINGER In 1908, Orville Wright crashed his plane, killing his passenger, Lt. Thomas E. Selfridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANSELL/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (77%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEATHS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (74%) VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



703 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3693 words

HEADLINE: Can Hank Paulson Defuse This Crisis?

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
IF Henry M. Paulson Jr. hadn't left Wall Street for Washington to become Treasury secretary in 2006, he would still be making tens of millions of dollars a year as the chairman of Goldman Sachs. He would be comfortably zipping around the globe on a corporate jet. He would be presiding over the only big Wall Street firm that hasn't lost billions on bad debt.
 He wouldn't be answering rounds of questions at meandering Congressional hearings. He wouldn't be at the center of the Bush administration's struggle to contain a potential financial meltdown the likes of which the world hasn't seen since the Great Depression.
 And he certainly wouldn't be openly (and with a grin) comparing himself to Job, the Bible's best-known punching bag. 
 Still, he insists that he doesn't regret leaving his perch atop Goldman Sachs when the president called.
 ''I don't look back,'' he told New York Times editors and reporters in a meeting last Monday. ''It wasn't my first choice, ever. I enjoyed what I was doing. I thought it was the right thing to do.''
 Whether Mr. Paulson has actually done the right things during his two uneven years in office has been a matter of intense debate in financial and political circles. That debate reached a boiling point last week as Congress moved toward approval of a taxpayer-financed rescue package that Mr. Paulson advocated for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage giants that appear to be powder kegs.
 Even Mr. Paulson, for all his Wall Street experience and market savvy, occasionally appears flummoxed by the scale and complexity of the current crisis. 
 ''When I talk to people, there are a whole lot of them that say: 'I don't like this,' 'I don't like that,' 'I don't like the other thing,' '' he said in the Times meeting. ''I say: 'Neither do I. What idea do you have? What do you think we should do?' ''
 Mr. Paulson is leading the Bush administration's struggle to contain an economic contagion stemming from a disintegrating housing sector, volatile financial markets and frozen credit, skyrocketing energy and food prices, widening job losses, and a precipitous fall in the dollar. 
 As he scrambles to find solutions to these myriad and interconnected challenges he has earned plaudits for how quickly he has recently marshaled federal resources. Yet he's also been roundly criticized as having not grasped the threat and severity of the crisis when it began to snowball about 18 months ago. 
 Moreover, a Treasury secretary who initially preached against ''excessive regulation'' of the financial sector is presiding over a sweeping government intervention in the economy, one that conceivably marks the end of a federal deregulatory push that began in the late 1970s and accelerated in subsequent decades. 
 And an administration that has rarely had conflicts with its allies in Congress discovered that the Fannie and Freddie legislation is opposed by most Republicans in the House of Representatives, some of whom claim it smacked of socialism. 
 Critics on the right also accuse Mr. Paulson and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, of panicking and over-reaching, keeping interest rates low, which they say has fanned inflation and caused the dollar to skid.
 Facing the possibility of even worse economic news in the months to come, Mr. Paulson -- whose nickname ''The Hammer'' comes from his days as an offensive lineman on the Dartmouth football team in the '60s -- has won praise on Wall Street and Capitol Hill, particularly among Democrats, for his role in fashioning solutions to economic difficulties this year. 
 ''He has handled this crisis extremely well,'' said Representative Barney Frank, the acerbic Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and customarily a scathing critic of the Bush administration. ''It's fair to say that he and almost everybody else failed to anticipate some of these problems. We all underestimated it. What I give him credit for is how rapidly he adapted.''
 But other observers say they still aren't convinced that Mr. Paulson's overall performance has been up to speed, seeing it as overly reactive rather than proactive.
 ''I'm afraid there's much more Treasury could have done much earlier in this process,'' says Thomas H. Stanton, an author and expert on mortgage finance. ''Once the financial markets showed signs of panic, Treasury had to act.''
 And, Mr. Stanton adds, ''it's almost as if Treasury was panicked as well.''
 Still, say others, Mr. Paulson and his Treasury team can't shoulder all of the criticism aimed at the federal government over its handling of the financial crisis.
 ''It wasn't just the Treasury; it was a problem throughout the federal government that everyone was asleep at the wheel,'' said Nouriel Roubini, an economics professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. ''They let the subprime market and housing bubble expand without any controls. They believed in risk-management models,'' he said, thinking that ''market discipline would be better than regulation. But the lesson we have learned is that self-regulation means no regulation.''
 WHEN Mr. Paulson accepted the Treasury job, he sought advice from Robert E. Rubin, another former Goldman Sachs chief, who served as Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. The two sat together in the library of Mr. Rubin's Manhattan home as Mr. Paulson peppered him with questions about how Washington works. 
 ''Some people from business or law go down to Washington and they go with the view that they've done very well in whatever they've done and they can take that same way of functioning and apply it in Washington,'' says Mr. Rubin. ''Very often that doesn't work. Others say, 'I've had a lot of experience, but this world operates in different ways and I have to learn how this world works.' That's a much more effective approach, and that's my impression of what Hank has done.'' 
 In Washington, where politicians and policy wonks can feel in their bones when a Cabinet member does or doesn't have clout, Mr. Paulson's stock is riding high. 
 It was the Treasury chief, for example, who persuaded Mr. Bush to go along with a $168 billion economic stimulus package in cooperation with Democrats early this year. As markets fell precipitously in March, he worked with Federal Reserve officials to orchestrate the fire sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase, encouraging the Fed to financially back the deal and open its coffers to other ailing investment firms. 
 Bear Stearns complained that it was being forced to accept a low-ball price for its ailing shares; Mr. Paulson demanded a rock-bottom price so the public didn't have the impression that Bear's shareholders were getting a life raft paid for by Main Street taxpayers.
 And this month, as Mr. Paulson helped hammer out emergency legislation authorizing the federal government to potentially inject hundreds of billions of dollars into Fannie and Freddie if the government-sponsored mortgage makers weaken further, he spent long hours with lawmakers of both parties.
 Although the White House made clear its distaste for parts of the legislation, especially increased federal spending for homeowners, it said that Mr. Bush was taking the Treasury secretary's advice not to veto the bill.
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat and a critic of the White House, praised Mr. Paulson for changing Mr. Bush's mind. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Senate banking committee, is also singing ''Kumbaya.''
 ''I've watched him grow in the last year, not in terms of intellectual capacity but in his appreciation of how this town works,'' says Mr. Dodd.
 Then again, in an environment where financiers and public-policy makers have temporarily tried to forge a bipartisan front to address the most severe economic tempest in a generation, few people are willing to speak critically of Mr. Paulson for attribution -- recognizing, they say, a need for a nervous public and queasy financial markets to believe that the federal government is in charge, is capable, and knows exactly how to confront the downturn.
 ''There's reluctance to be critical because they understand that to be critical would further erode investor confidence and therefore cause the markets to dive deeper,'' says James D. Cox, a corporate law professor at the Duke University School of Law. ''We are at a point where it's difficult to determine how much of this is being driven downward by psychology or the excesses of the past working themselves out. Most people think it's excesses of the past, but they hope no one else realizes that.''
 Moreover, Mr. Paulson has especially endeared himself to the denizens of Wall Street by using federal power and the public purse to rescue the financial industry from its own, outsize mistakes and prevent the meltdown from getting out of control.
 ''He's saved their bacon,'' Mr. Cox says.
 Truth be told, Mr. Paulson is not an easy person to stage manage anyway. Colleagues and acquaintances say he can be forceful and candid in his arguments, even if he is sometimes hot-tempered and prone to impulsive table-pounding.
 While Mr. Paulson's weak communication skills make him a notoriously hobbled public speaker, in private he still can be a good listener. ''He lacks the fluidity of a Bob Rubin, but he can be very persuasive,'' Mr. Dodd says.
 For his part, Mr. Paulson has the confidence and self-awareness to cop to some of these faults.
 ''I'm not an inspirational leader,'' he told the Dartmouth Alumni Magazine in 2003. ''I'm just not.'' 
 IF Mr. Paulson, 62, has been something of a fish out of water in Washington, he was sometimes that way on Wall Street as well.
 At Goldman Sachs he didn't golf or drink, and he often left dinners with senior executives at 8:45 p.m. so he could go to bed. He shunned the Hamptons scene, spending free weekends in Barrington, Ill., where he and his wife, Wendy, built a house in 1974, down the road from his mother, Marianna. 
 He has impeccable Republican credentials and raised funds for George W. Bush. Friends are quick to point out that both he and Wendy, a Democrat, are ardent bird watchers and environmentalists. (Mr. Paulson, who wanted to be a forest ranger before he chose a financial career, was chairman of the Nature Conservancy until he took the Treasury job.)
 He shuns the trappings of great wealth in other ways as well. He donated $100 million of his Goldman stock to a family foundation dedicated to conservation and environmental education and has said he would give the remainder of his fortune, which stood at about $500 million in 2006, to charity when he dies. He told one reporter that he loved his children too much to leave them money.
 MR. PAULSON was raised as a Christian Scientist in Barrington, studied English at Dartmouth, landed a Pentagon job, and then worked in the Nixon administration as a liaison to the Treasury and the Commerce Department. After that, he attended Harvard Business School and joined Goldman's Chicago office as an investment banker after graduating.
 He made an early impression.
 ''He was very smart, he had the best people in corporate finance working on his team -- they recognized his talent -- and when I went on client visits, the most important business people in Chicago looked to him personally for his advice,'' said Stephen Friedman, a former Goldman Sachs chairman who was President Bush's top economic adviser from 2002 to 2005. 
 Inside Goldman, Mr. Paulson was known for his bulldog intensity and direct manner. ''He used to say that he runs fastest toward problems, and it was true,'' said Eric Schwartz, a former Goldman executive who worked closely with Mr. Paulson. ''Instead of avoiding conflicts -- which is what a lot of managers do -- he goes headlong into them.'' 
 In 1999, he snared Goldman's top job after leading a palace coup to push out Jon Corzine, his co-senior partner. (Mr. Corzine, a Democrat, is now the governor of New Jersey.) 
 Mr. Paulson presided over Goldman as it successfully made the transition to public company, expanded aggressively into international markets, and shifted from a more advisory-focused business to one that takes more principal risk in trading and investing. 
 He also defied conventional wisdom among critics and competitors who thought the firm was too small to go it alone. After the repeal of federal laws separating commercial and investment banking in 1999, it was widely accepted that new, sprawling megabanks like Citigroup would crush smaller firms like Goldman. 
 But Mr. Paulson repositioned the business as one built on superior brainpower and the generation of heady profits through judicious risk-taking. Today, Goldman stands alone as the only bank that has yet to take huge write-downs in the credit crisis. 
 Goldman, however, was also an integral part of a money-hungry Wall Street culture that helped build, oil and maintain the securitization and derivatives machinery underlying the current mortgage-fueled problems.
 Mr. Paulson's tenure wasn't without scars. His bluntness -- or ''brain-to-mouth,'' as he has described it -- has been a liability at times. In 2002, at an investment conference, he said that 15 percent to 20 percent of the people in each of Goldman's businesses added 80 percent of the value. It violated Goldman's cultlike approach to team work. He immediately apologized to all the firm's employees.
 He was also deeply embroiled in the 2003 ouster of the former New York Stock Exchange chairman Richard A. Grasso over complaints about Mr. Grasso's compensation. And Mr. Paulson sat at Goldman's helm during the excesses of the dot-com bubble, selling vast numbers of subpar companies that promptly crashed with the market. Goldman wasn't the worst of the offenders, but it wasn't an exception either. 
 WHEN Mr. Bush struggled to right his listing administration in 2006, his chief of staff, Joshua B. Bolten, a former executive at Goldman Sachs, recruited Mr. Paulson to replace John W. Snow at Treasury.
 Neither Mr. Snow nor his immediate predecessor, Paul H. O'Neill, was viewed in Washington as having much clout in the Bush administration -- Mr. O'Neill went embarrassingly public with his criticisms after he left office -- and Mr. Paulson demanded that he be given the authority they lacked if he were to take the job.
 According to administration officials and others close to Mr. Paulson, he asked to be named as the administration's chief economic official and that he have a direct line to Mr. Bush. 
 Upon taking office, Mr. Paulson had something of a rude awakening. He said he intended to direct a bipartisan effort to overhaul Social Security and Medicare, but Democrats balked. He tried to improve economic relations with China but met with limited success. Although the Chinese let their currency appreciate in value, they continued to resist opening their markets to American goods, services and investments.
 Meanwhile, the financial crisis has swirled around the White House in ever more violent waves. But each sign of economic trouble brought assurances from regulators, Mr. Paulson and others in the Bush administration that the housing sector was experiencing a ''correction'' or a ''repricing of risk'' that would work its way through the system without throwing the economy into a steep downturn. Each assurance soon ran aground as more bad economic news poured in.
 At the same time, Mr. Paulson began echoing the line of many in the financial industry that the real problem facing Wall Street was a welter of cumbersome regulations.
 Warning that private equity firms and others were raising capital in markets outside the United States, Mr. Paulson said in November 2006 that although he had no wish to lift regulations altogether, ''excessive regulation slows innovation, imposes needless costs on investors and stifles competitiveness and job creation.''
 Accordingly, Mr. Paulson set up a presidential working group to come up with a new regulatory blueprint that would simplify if not lift government regulations. What he didn't anticipate was that the financial crisis would redefine that mandate.
 Last fall, he declared that ''the ongoing housing correction is not ending as quickly as it might have appeared late last year.'' He repeatedly said that the problem wasn't bad credit but market fears, so he encouraged banks to raise more capital and recommended other forms of financial engineering that didn't gain traction. 
 Most notably, he advocated bundling bad loans into off-balance-sheet entities that theoretically would allow banks to improve their financial standing. The plan was a total flop and yet another signal that Mr. Paulson underestimated the severity of the problem.
 Another initiative from Mr. Paulson was a program called the Hope Now Alliance, which the administration says has helped hundreds of thousands of homeowners stay in their homes through voluntary renegotiations with banks of mortgage payments. 
 But the markets weren't reassured. And then came the heart-stopping events this year, beginning with Bear Stearns and mushrooming into the Fannie and Freddie messes. Treasury has been ''reactive and not proactive,'' said George Soros, the financier and philanthropist. ''You can see it on the compromise on Fannie Mae -- it's a halfway house. It remains part of the problem instead of becoming part of the solution.''
 Some associates of Mr. Paulson say he is handicapped by a lack of a strong bench at Treasury, although government analysts consider the caliber of the midlevel professionals there to be high.
 Mr. Paulson wound up relying more in the current crisis on Robert K. Steel, a former Goldman executive who left Treasury abruptly earlier this month to become chief executive at Wachovia Bank.
 Although there has been speculation that Mr. Steel's departure hinged on a failure to grasp the problems at Fannie and Freddie and keep Mr. Paulson more fully apprised, people close to the situation at Treasury strongly deny that. Rather, they say, Mr. Steel left in part because he realized he wasn't going to be promoted to a deputy position at Treasury.
 Mr. Steel says that he and Mr. Paulson foresaw the economic and housing problems much earlier than they are given credit for, and that they made early forays to reform Fannie and Freddie.
 ''When Hank came to Washington, he went to the president and said we'd had a long period of time with no disruptions in the marketplace, and that there was a lot of dry tinder out there,'' Mr. Steel recalls in an interview. ''I think it's pretty amazing that in August of '06, he began to prepare for financial challenges.'' Executives close to Mr. Paulson say the administration, including Mr. Steel, were stunned by the magnitude of Fannie's and Freddie's internal financial problems. 
 Mr. Paulson says he was not late to the game. ''I've had a number of people say to me, 'You should have pushed this harder earlier.' And I almost don't get it. Because I came down here and from the day I showed up in Washington I looked at that problem; there is no doubt there is systemic risk,'' he said when speaking at The New York Times last week. ''The idea of working hard to get a regulator with powers to address some of these systemic issues is important.''
 Nonetheless, earlier this year Mr. Paulson's hopes for reform consisted mostly of enhanced oversight of Fannie and Freddie. That effort also ran into Congressional opposition and demands that the two agencies expand their lending activities. 
 Mr. Paulson's associates say that he has also been frustrated at how hard it has been to convince the White House and other parts of the administration that quick action was essential in the Bear Stearns and Fannie and Freddie debacles. 
 The Bear Stearns crisis happened so fast that Mr. Paulson didn't bother following inter-agency protocols and simply briefed Mr. Bush and two top aides on the matter.
 The Treasury chief has also tried to avoid overstating or understating the dangers ahead.
 ''I think we'll be dealing with the housing issue in one way or another for months, maybe years after I've left,'' he said at The Times. But he added that the ''biggest part'' of the crisis will be ''largely over by year-end'' and that progress ''isn't in a straight line.''
 Mr. Paulson has quietly tried to tell members of Congress that the whole world is watching how America deals with its housing problems, including Fannie and Freddie. Even so, he is quick to say how uncomfortable he is overseeing a huge, government-led intervention in the financial industry.
 ''I would rather not be in the position of asking for extraordinary authorities to support'' Fannie and Freddie, Mr. Paulson said during a speech at the New York Public Library. ''But I am playing the hand that I have been dealt.'' 
 Some on Wall Street welcome his response. ''He's done a spectacular job balancing free-market ideology with strong government actions,'' said Thomas Nides, chief administrative officer at Morgan Stanley and a Washington veteran. ''And as a Democrat that's not an easy thing to say. He's a Republican and a free market guy -- but he's not making decisions based purely on ideology.''
 All of which is why Mr. Paulson has been working overtime to try to contain the financial mess. What the White House isn't publicly emphasizing is that overseas governments and investors hold a considerable amount of securities guaranteed by Fannie and Freddie. If they sell off those securities it could spark a huge market disruption. 
 To that end, backing up Fannie and Freddie is imperative, says Mr. Paulson.
 ''The credit facility is like a lender of last resort and what I believe Congress wants to do -- will want to do -- is to increase the confidence in our capital markets and in these organizations,'' he said at the Times meeting, discussing the proposed rescue package for the mortgage giants. ''It will be used as a last resort and it will be used to protect the taxpayer.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As the Bush administration's third Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr. has faced a brutal series of crises on Wall Street and in Washington that have sparked fiercely partisan debates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU1)
In 1994, Henry Paulson, left, and Jon Corzine, right, served under Stephen Friedman at Goldman Sachs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED QUINN)
Mr. Paulson left Wall Street to become President Bush's third Treasury secretary, on July 10, 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Critics say policies of Mr. Paulson, at back, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, have contributed to inflation and the dollar's slide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); APPROVALS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); FOOD PRICES (50%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (66%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (66%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



704 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
DAVID LETTERMAN
 Well, this is interesting: Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi is calling the Bush presidency a total failure. Total failure? I don't know. ... I think he's done O.K. I think he's done O.K. if you don't count Iraq, the economy, the environment, Afghanistan, the mortgage crisis. 
 Is it -- let me ask you a question -- is it lousy hot outside? I'll tell you how hot it is today here in the Northeast: it's so hot today that Vice President Dick Cheney replaced his pacemaker with an icemaker.
 JAY LENO
 It was leaked yesterday regarding a possible vice-presidential running mate that John McCain could be leaning towards Tim Pawlenty. I know what you're thinking. The Tim Pawlenty? Apparently McCain wants to lower his profile even more.
 The price of oil has dropped to under $125 a barrel for the first time in two months and gas is down 6 cents a gallon. You know what this means -- the White House will call for an emergency bailout to help the struggling oil industry. ''We have to stop the bleeding.'' It's a little tricky out here tonight.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Jack Ohman: The Portland Oregonian, Tribune Media Services (CARTOON BY JACK OHMAN)
Jeff Stahler The Columbus Dispatch, United Feature Syndicate (CARTOON BY JEFF STAHLER)
Rob Rogers Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, United Feature Syndicate (CARTOON BY ROB ROGERS)
 Mike Luckovich Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Creators Syndicate (CARTOON BY MIKE LUCKOVICH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (74%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); TIM PAWLENTY (68%); DICK CHENEY (58%); JAY LENO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) OREGON, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



705 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1978 words

HEADLINE: A SHIITE MILITIA IN BAGHDAD SEES ITS POWER WANE

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Reporting was contributed by Mohammed Hussein, Tareq Maher, Campbell Robertson, Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Alissa J. Rubin.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
The militia that was once the biggest defender of poor Shiites in Iraq, the Mahdi Army, has been profoundly weakened in a number of neighborhoods across Baghdad, in an important, if tentative, milestone for stability in Iraq. 
 It is a remarkable change from years past, when the militia, led by the anti-American cleric Moktada al-Sadr, controlled a broad swath of Baghdad, including local governments and police forces. But its use of extortion and violence began alienating much of the Shiite population to the point that many quietly supported American military sweeps against the group.
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki struck another blow this spring, when he led a military operation against it in Baghdad and in several southern cities. 
 The shift, if it holds, would solidify a transfer of power from Mr. Sadr, who had lorded his once broad political support over the government, to Mr. Maliki, who is increasingly seen as a true national leader. 
 It is part of a general decline in violence that is resonating in American as well as Iraqi politics: Senator John McCain argues that the advances in Iraq would have been impossible without the increase in American troops known as the surge, while Senator Barack Obama, who opposed the increase, says the security improvements should allow a faster withdrawal of combat troops. 
 The Mahdi Army's decline also means that the Iraqi state, all but impotent in the early years of the war, has begun to act the part, taking over delivery of some services and control of some neighborhoods.
 ''The Iraqi government broke their branches and took down their tree,'' said Abu Amjad, a civil servant who lives in the northern Baghdad district of Sadr City, once seen as an unbreachable stronghold for the group. 
 The change is showing up in the lives of ordinary people. The price of cooking gas is less than a fifth of what it was when the militia controlled local gas stations, and kerosene for heating has also become much less expensive. In interviews, 17 Iraqis, including municipal officials, gas station workers and residents, described a pattern in which the militia's control over the local economy and public services had ebbed. Merchants say they no longer have to pay protection money to militiamen. In some cases, employees with allegiances to the militia have been fired or transferred. Despite the militia's weakened state, none of the Iraqis interviewed agreed to have their full names published for fear of retribution.
 In a further sign of weakness, Shiite tribes in several neighborhoods are asking for compensation from militia members' families for past wrongs. 
 The changes are not irreversible. The security gains are in the hands of unseasoned Iraqi soldiers at checkpoints spread throughout Baghdad's neighborhoods. And local government officials have barely begun to take hold of service distribution networks, potentially leaving a window for the militia to reassert itself. 
 The militia's roots are still in the ground, Abu Amjad said, and ''given any chance, they will grow again.''
 A Criminal Enterprise
 At the peak of the militia's control last summer, it was involved at all levels of the local economy, taking money from gas stations, private minibus services, electric switching stations, food and clothing markets, ice factories, and even collecting rent from squatters in houses whose owners had been displaced. The four main gas stations in Sadr City were handing over a total of about $13,000 a day, according to a member of the local council. 
 ''It's almost like the old Mafia criminal days in the United States,'' said Brig. Gen. Jeffrey W. Talley, an Army engineer rebuilding Sadr City's main market.
 Um Hussein, a mother of 10 in Sadr City, the largest Shiite district in the capital and one of the poorest, said her family's fuel bill had dropped so far that she could afford to buy one of her daughters a pair of earrings with the savings. Others interviewed listed simpler purchases that had now become possible: tomatoes, laundry detergent, gasoline. 
 One young man said that even though his house was right across from a distribution center that sold cooking gas, he was not allowed to buy it there at state prices, but instead was forced to wait for a militia-affiliated distributor who sold it at higher prices.
 ''We had to get our share of the cooking gas from Mahdi Army people,'' Um Hussein said. ''Now, everything is available. We are free to buy what we want.'' 
 Before, the Mahdi Army controlled the 12 trucks that made daily deliveries of cooking gas canisters for the district, because the leader of the Sadr City district council, who was affiliated with the militia, was the one who handled the trucks' documents.
 ''We had no idea when they were coming or where they were going,'' the council member said, referring to the trucks. 
 Those who questioned the militia's authority were dealt with harshly. A gas station worker from Kadhimiya recalled a man in his 60s being beaten badly for refusing to pay the inflated gas price last year. The Sadr City council member described his relationship with the militia by touching his hand to his face.
 ''I was kissing them here, here and here,'' he said pointing to his right cheek, his left cheek and then his forehead.
 A spokesman for the movement in Sadr City, Sayeed Jaleel al-Sarkhy, defended the Mahdi Army, saying in an interview that it was not a formal militia and denying the charges that it had taken control of local services. He said the militia had been infiltrated by criminals who used the name of the Mahdi Army as a cover. 
 ''The Mahdi Army is an army of believers,'' he said. ''It was established to serve the people.'' 
 An employee in the Sadr City local government who oversees trash collectors -- daily laborers whose salaries he said were controlled by the militia -- said that had long stopped being true.
 ''I am sick all over,'' he said. ''I am blind. I've got a headache. I've got a toothache. My back hurts. All of this is from the Mahdi Army.''
 Signs of Weakness
 A month after Mr. Maliki's military operation, strange things started to happen in Shuala, a vast expanse of concrete and sand-colored houses in northern Baghdad that was one of the Mahdi Army's main strongholds. Militia members suddenly stopped showing up to collect money from the main gas station, a worker there said. 
 A member of the Shuala district council said: ''They used to come and order us to give them 100 gas canisters. Now it's, 'Can you please give me a gas canister?' ''
 Then, several weeks later, 11 workers, guards and even a director, all state employees with ties to the militia, were transferred to other areas. Employees' pictures were posted so American and Iraqi soldiers could identify impostors. 
 The Iraqi Army now occupies the militia's old headquarters in Shuala. Soldiers set up 18 checkpoints around the neighborhood, including at the gas station. When the militia opened a new office, soldiers put a checkpoint there, too, said an Iraqi major from the unit based there. Iraqi soldiers recently distributed warning notices to families squatting in houses whose rent had been collected by the Mahdi Army until May.
 In Sadr City, the authorities closed the militia's radio station. The leader of the district council was arrested by the American military. Cooking gas delivery documents must now be approved by three officials, not just one, the council member said. 
 Another sign of weakness is the growing number of financial settlements between powerful Shiites and Mahdi Army members' families over loved ones who were killed by the militia. In Topchi, a Shiite neighborhood in western Baghdad, a handwritten list of militia members' names was taped up in the market this month, with the warning for their families to leave town. Several of their houses were attacked. 
 Some militia members' families went to the local council to ask for help. They found none. Mahdi militiamen killed four local council members over several weeks last fall. 
 ''I told them this isn't good, they must not be blamed,'' the council member said. Even so, ''if your brother has been killed, this is the time for revenge.''
 Now neighborhoods are breathing more freely. A hairdresser in Ameen, a militia-controlled neighborhood in southeast Baghdad, said her clients no longer had to cover their faces when they left her house wearing makeup. Minibuses ferrying commuters in Sadr City are no longer required to play religious songs, said Abu Amjad, the civil servant, and now play songs about love, some even sung by women. 
 ''They lost everything,'' said the Sadr City government employee. ''The Sadr movement has no power now. There is no militia control.'' 
 Lingering Fears
 The Mahdi Army might be weak, but it is not gone. 
 Majid, a Sadr City resident who works in a government ministry, said several Iraqi Army officers in his area had to move their families to other neighborhoods after Mr. Maliki's military operation because the militia threatened them. Bombs are still wounding and killing American soldiers in the district. And early this month, one Iraqi officer's teenage son was kidnapped and killed, his body hung in a public place as a warning, said Majid, who gave only his first name because he feared reprisals. 
 ''People are still afraid of the Mahdi Army,'' he said. ''You still get punished if you talk bad about them.''
 While most of the Iraqi soldiers at the new checkpoints seem loyal to the government, others have sympathies closer to the militia. A friend of Majid's was obliged to pay a steep tribal settlement, after telling an army patrol about his neighbor, a militia member. The patrol had been infiltrated and leaked the tip to the neighbor.
 ''They are still trying to influence things,'' General Talley said, though his overall assessment was that their control was receding. 
 The shift comes at a crucial moment: Iraqis will vote in provincial elections in December. The weakening of the Sadrists in national politics clears the stage for the group's most bitter rival -- a Shiite party led by another cleric, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim. One of the party's members, Jalal al-Din al-Sagheer, a sheik and a member of Parliament, is arranging state aid for Sunni families willing to move back to Topchi.
 The timing was not missed by the Sadr movement's spokesman, who said the government had recently warned the group to vacate its office. He blames Mr. Hakim's party for the attempts to marginalize his movement, whose members have also been targets of a political crackdown in southern Iraq. 
 ''Some parties are occupying large buildings in Jadriya,'' he said, referring indirectly to the headquarters of Mr. Hakim's party. ''That's what makes us suspicious. Why only us?''
 He added, ''The main motive is to exclude the Sadr movement from politics.''
 One indicator of whether the new gains will hold is whether local governments can truly fill the gap that the militia left and deliver services effectively and consistently. 
 General Talley said his unit had recently spent $34 million to help reconstruct a major market in Sadr City. But the district council has gotten bogged down in arguments over who has the right to disburse $100 million that Mr. Maliki promised Sadr City after the military operation. The district council was given 90 days to come up with projects. More than 30 days have passed and not one proposal has been submitted, council members said.
 ''To be honest with you, I find it very slow,'' said Haidar al-Abadi, an adviser to Mr. Maliki who said that funds had been held back because militia-affiliated companies had gotten involved. ''There's a danger this slowness could backfire.''
 The militia is painting its response on Sadr City walls: ''We will be back, after this break.'' 
 The Iraqi Army is painting over it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iraqi soldiers watched as residents of Sadr City in Baghdad prayed on a recent Friday in front of the offices of Moktada al-Sadr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
A Sadr City resident with cooking gas from a local distribution center. The center used to be controlled by the Mahdi Army, which charged more.
 Iraqi soldiers in Shuala, a Baghdad neighborhood, took a break recently at a checkpoint that used to be controlled by the Mahdi Army. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GAS STATIONS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (98%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



706 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: As Rebates Run Their Course

 BODY:
For all the self congratulation last February, when Congress and President Bush quickly agreed to a $168 billion stimulus plan, the effort has not sparked the economic turnaround that policy makers wanted. It has kept the economy from falling into even worse shape than it is in, but real improvement has proved elusive.
 The $100 billion in rebate checks -- which were delivered to just about everybody from April through mid-July -- will be eaten up largely by higher gasoline prices. Once the rebates are all spent, probably by October, consumers are likely to recoil in the face of rising unemployment, stagnating wages and tighter credit. Business tax breaks in the stimulus package have given a modest, near-term boost to investment. But bolstered investment this year means less investment in 2009, when, by all indications, the economy will still be ailing. 
 So it is not surprising that lawmakers are now considering a second round of stimulus. One is needed, but tempting as it is to send out checks in an election year, lawmakers will do a disservice to those who elected them if they simply serve up more of the same.
 The initial stimulus plan has fallen short of expectations because the plan was flawed, not just because the economy's problems are more severe than policy makers thought. The plan, for example, did not contain additional spending for food stamps or direct aid to states and local governments. The second one must include both. 
 It is unconscionable to omit food aid from a stimulus measure, because the priority in a downturn should be to help the most vulnerable Americans. It is also poor economics, because a temporary increase in food stamps, which are spent quickly and in full, is the single most effective way to lift consumer spending. Direct aid to states and localities also reaches vulnerable populations, like Medicaid recipients, and is powerful stimulus because the extra money is passed on quickly to employees, contractors and program beneficiaries. 
 Another reason to approach the next stimulus bill differently is that the government has now intervened to prop up the economy in other ways, most notably by giving the Treasury authority to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants, if necessary. 
 The Treasury might never have to spend a penny. Or it may have to spend upward of $100 billion. The growing possibility of huge taxpayer outlays -- and ever larger federal deficits -- leaves little room for error and waste in future rescue efforts. That argues against another large tax rebate scheme, or various temporary tax cuts, like increased write-offs for business equipment. Politically popular though they may be, such measures have far less bang for the buck than direct spending programs to boost the economy. 
 Permanent tax cuts are an even worse idea than temporary ones. Mr. Bush and Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president, have often connected their call for making Mr. Bush's temporary tax cuts permanent with the need to stimulate the economy. Permanent tax cuts would do more harm than good. They dig the hole in the federal budget deeper and deeper with each passing year, and in so doing, threaten to drive up interest rates as bond investors react to the nation's deteriorating budget outlook.
 This is a precarious moment, when much is riding on the nation's leadership to restore confidence -- in the markets, in the economy and in the ability of policy makers to deal with problems intelligently and responsibly. That makes tired old tax cut rhetoric especially off point and potentially harmful. 
 Congress must take the lead this time, not the Bush administration, in writing a stimulus bill that truly addresses today's economic problems and challenges, without wreaking undo damage on the federal budget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); FOOD STAMPS (65%); MEDICAID (64%); SALES REBATES (56%); OIL & GAS PRICES (56%); GASOLINE PRICES (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



707 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Congress Sends Housing Relief Bill to President

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Stephen Labaton contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Hoping to stretch a safety net under the nation's tumbling housing market, the Senate on Saturday overwhelmingly approved a huge package of legislation that includes a program to save hundreds of thousands of families from losing their homes to foreclosure. 
 The legislation is the latest in a series of extraordinary interventions this year by the Bush administration, Congress and the Federal Reserve as they seek to limit shockwaves in the housing sector from rippling across the American economy and the world financial system. In the process, the central bank and taxpayers have taken on what critics warn are incalculable liabilities and risk. 
 The bill grants the Treasury Department broad authority to safeguard the nation's two mortgage finance giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, potentially by spending tens of billions of dollars in federal money to prevent the collapse of the companies, which own or guarantee nearly half of the nation's $12 trillion in mortgages. 
 To accommodate the rescue plan for the mortgage companies, the bill raises the national debt ceiling to $10.6 trillion, an increase of $800 billion and the first time that the limit on the government's credit card has grown to 14 digits. 
 The Senate, convening for a rare Saturday session as it neared summer recess, approved the bill by a vote of 72 to 13, with 27 Republicans joining all the Democrats in attendance to support it. 
 The measure now goes to President Bush, who has said he will sign it, perhaps early this week, to send a reassuring message to the credit markets. 
 The White House quickly issued a statement praising the vote, but also affirming opposition to nearly $4 billion in grants to local governments to buy and refurbish foreclosed properties, which Mr. Bush views as a giveaway to lenders.
 ''It's good that the Democratic Congress has finally acted,'' said Tony Fratto, the deputy White House press secretary.
 Lawmakers in both parties hailed the bill, saying it was crucially needed. ''It will make a difference not only in the housing market but in the entire economy,'' the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the banking committee, said before the vote: ''We are in the midst of the most serious economic crisis to face our nation in many years. This bill is going to make a difference almost immediately.'' 
 The federal intervention has certainly been bold. The nearly $29 billion loan by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in March to orchestrate the sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase & Company may seem small compared with the Federal Housing Administration's authority, granted in the new legislation, to insure up to $300 billion in refinanced mortgages to help stem a tide of foreclosures. 
 Analysts, including the Congressional Budget Office, expect less than $100 billion of that authority to be used. The risk to taxpayers is minimal, analysts say, given higher insurance fees that will be charged to recipients of the refinanced loans. 
 And yet, even that $100 billion could seem small compared with the Treasury Department's authority to spend unspecified amounts of tax dollars to rescue Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac if they are in peril of collapse. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., an architect of the rescue plan, said he expected never to use the new authority. And the Congressional Budget Office predicted that any bailout between now and Dec. 31, 2009, when the authority sunsets, would most likely cost $25 billion or less, and that there was a better-than-even chance of no cost at all. 
 The only real limit on the Treasury's authority is the new $10.6 trillion debt ceiling. There is roughly a $1.1 trillion cushion between the new limit and existing federal debt of $9.5 trillion. 
 Critics in Congress who voted against the housing bill warned that the government was taking on too much risk, and that government aid would only reward irresponsibility by corporations and individuals. 
 ''This bill has moral hazard written all over it,'' Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said during the debate in the House on Wednesday. ''We are pretending to chain a monster here, and we are, instead, letting that monster loose.'' 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, voted against the bill even though he had worked on many of its tax provisions. ''This bill has fallen prey to the special interests on Wall Street and K Street at an unjustifiable expense to taxpayers and homeowners on Main Street,'' he said in a statement. 
 Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, who also opposed the bill, said it should have barred the mortgage companies from spending millions to lobby members of Congress.
 One little-noticed provision in the bill underscores the continuing pessimism about the state of the economy. The provision gives the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the authority to create so-called bridge institutions for failing savings associations, mirroring a capability that has existed since 1991 for failed banks. 
 The new power will give the F.D.I.C. more latitude to continue the operations of savings associations like IndyMac in California, which failed earlier this month, and buy regulators time to work out a resolution at the lowest possible cost. 
 The measure approved in the Senate on Saturday was the most aggressive government intervention in the housing market since the 1989 response to the savings and loan crisis and perhaps the boldest attempt to aid troubled borrowers since the creation of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation in 1933 as part of the New Deal. 
 In addition to the program to prevent foreclosures and the rescue plan for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the 694-page bill contains a sweeping new regulatory structure for the mortgage giants, including the creation of an independent regulator, a stand-alone federal agency with a director appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. 
 The bill includes $15 billion in housing-related tax incentives, like a $7,500 tax credit for first-time homebuyers and business tax breaks for home builders and other large corporations. 
 There is also an array of items buried deep in the legislation, and the implications of some of them is not yet clear. There are provisions, for example, that grant or extend Section 8 federal housing subsidy eligibility to residents of specific properties in Malden, Mass., and San Francisco.
 And there is a provision tailored narrowly for Chrysler to ensure that it can benefit from a corporate tax incentive even though the company is now structured as a partnership not a corporation. 
 The bill does not name Chrysler but rather describes an unnamed automobile manufacturer ''that will produce in excess of 675,000 automobiles'' from Jan. 1 to June 30, 2008.
 Energy Assistance Bill Stalls
 An intense battle over energy policy continued in the Senate on Saturday, as Democrats tried to move forward with a bill to increase subsidies for home heating and other energy costs, but were blocked by Republicans who said they wanted to extend debate on a bill that might more broadly address the issue of high gasoline prices. 
 Senate leaders have been locked in a partisan fight over the procedure that would allow them to consider legislation dealing with the high price of oil. Democrats sought to move past that stalemate by bringing up legislation that puts many Republicans in a political bind, forcing them to favor a $2.53 billion increase in spending on the subsidies or oppose help for constituents struggling with high energy costs. 
 Several Republicans who face tough re-election campaigns, including Senators Norm Coleman of Minnesota, Susan Collins of Maine and John E. Sununu of New Hampshire, voted in favor of moving the bill forward. 
 Democrats needed 60 votes to proceed. The motion failed, with 50 votes in favor and 35 opposed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher J. Dodd addressing the housing bill with reporters, with Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) CHART: THE HOUSING BILL: The Senate approved a huge package of housing legislation on Saturday. The bill, which the House has already passed and which President Bush says he will sign, seeks to aid troubled borrowers, stem the slide in home prices and restore confidence in the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT CEILING (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HARRY REID (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



708 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: How Obama Became Acting President

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
IT almost seems like a gag worthy of ''Borat'': A smooth-talking rookie senator with an exotic name passes himself off as the incumbent American president to credulous foreigners. But to dismiss Barack Obama's magical mystery tour through old Europe and two war zones as a media-made fairy tale would be to underestimate the ingenious politics of the moment. History was on the march well before Mr. Obama boarded his plane, and his trip was perfectly timed to reap the whirlwind. 
 He never would have been treated as a president-in-waiting by heads of state or network talking heads if all he offered were charisma, slick rhetoric and stunning visuals. What drew them instead was the raw power Mr. Obama has amassed: the power to start shaping events and the power to move markets, including TV ratings. (Even ''Access Hollywood'' mustered a 20 percent audience jump by hosting the Obama family.) Power begets more power, absolutely. 
 The growing Obama clout derives not from national polls, where his lead is modest. Nor is it a gift from the press, which still gives free passes to its old bus mate John McCain. It was laughable to watch journalists stamp their feet last week to try to push Mr. Obama into saying he was ''wrong'' about the surge. More than five years and 4,100 American fatalities later, they're still not demanding that Mr. McCain admit he was wrong when he assured us that our adventure in Iraq would be fast, produce little American ''bloodletting'' and ''be paid for by the Iraqis.'' 
 Never mind. This election remains about the present and the future, where Iraq's $10 billion a month drain on American pocketbooks and military readiness is just one moving part in a matrix of national crises stretching from the gas pump to Pakistan. That's the high-rolling political casino where Mr. Obama amassed the chips he cashed in last week. The ''change'' that he can at times wield like a glib marketing gimmick is increasingly becoming a substantive reality -- sometimes through Mr. Obama's instigation, sometimes by luck. Obama-branded change is snowballing, whether it's change you happen to believe in or not. 
 Looking back now, we can see that the fortnight preceding the candidate's flight to Kuwait was like a sequence in an old movie where wind blows away calendar pages to announce an epochal plot turn. First, on July 7, the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri al-Maliki, dissed Bush dogma by raising the prospect of a withdrawal timetable for our troops. Then, on July 15, Mr. McCain suddenly noticed that more Americans are dying in Afghanistan than Iraq and called for more American forces to be sent there. It was a long-overdue recognition of the obvious that he could no longer avoid: both Robert Gates, the defense secretary, and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, had already called formore American troops to battle the resurgent Taliban, echoing the policy proposed by Mr. Obama a year ago.
 On July 17 we learned that President Bush, who had labeled direct talks with Iran ''appeasement,'' would send the No. 3 official in the State Department to multilateral nuclear talks with Iran. Lest anyone doubt that the White House had moved away from the rigid stand endorsed by Mr. McCain and toward Mr. Obama's, a former Rumsfeld apparatchik weighed in on The Wall Street Journal's op-ed page: ''Now Bush Is Appeasing Iran.''
 Within 24 hours, the White House did another U-turn, endorsing an Iraq withdrawal timetable as long as it was labeled a ''general time horizon.'' In a flash, as Mr. Obama touched down in Kuwait, Mr. Maliki approvingly cited the Democratic candidate by name while laying out a troop-withdrawal calendar of his own that, like Mr. Obama's, would wind down in 2010. On Tuesday, the British prime minister, Gordon Brown, announced a major drawdown of his nation's troops by early 2009. 
 But it's not merely the foreign policy consensus that is shifting Obama-ward. The Texas oilman T. Boone Pickens has now joined another high-profile McCain supporter, Arnold Schwarzenegger, in knocking the McCain nostrum that America can drill its way out of its energy crisis. Mr. Pickens, who financed the Swift-boat campaign smearing John Kerry in 2004, was thought to be a sugar daddy for similar assaults against the Democrats this year. Instead, he is underwriting nonpartisan ads promoting wind power and speaks of how he would welcome Al Gore as energy czar if there's an Obama administration.
 The Obama stampede is forcing Mr. McCain to surrender on other domestic fronts. After the Democrat ran ads in 14 states berating chief executives who are ''making more in 10 minutes'' than many workers do in a year, a newly populist Mr. McCain began railing against ''corporate greed'' -- much as he also followed Mr. Obama's example and belatedly endorsed a homeowners' bailout he had at first opposed. Given that Mr. McCain has already used a refitted, hand-me-down Obama campaign slogan (''A Leader You Can Believe In''), it can't be long before he takes up fist bumps. They've become the rage among young (nonterrorist) American businessmen, according to USA Today. 
 ''We have one president at a time,'' Mr. Obama is careful to say. True, but the sitting president, a lame duck despised by voters and shunned by his own party's candidates, now has all the gravitas of Mr. Cellophane in ''Chicago.'' The opening for a successor arrived prematurely, and the vacuum had been waiting to be filled. What was most striking about the Obama speech in Berlin was not anything he said so much as the alternative reality it fostered: many American children have never before seen huge crowds turn out abroad to wave American flags instead of burn them.
 Mr. McCain could also have stepped into the leadership gap left by Mr. Bush's de facto abdication. His inability to even make a stab at doing so is troubling. While drama-queen commentators on television last week were busy building up false suspense about the Obama trip -- will he make a world-class gaffe? will he have too large an audience in Germany? -- few focused on the alarms that Mr. McCain's behavior at home raise about his fitness to be president.
 Once again the candidate was making factual errors about the only subject he cares about, imagining an Iraq-Pakistan border and garbling the chronology of the Anbar Awakening. Once again he displayed a tantrum-prone temperament ill-suited to a high-pressure 21st-century presidency. His grim-faced crusade to brand his opponent as a traitor who wants to ''lose a war'' isn't even a competent impersonation of Joe McCarthy. Mr. McCain comes off instead like the ineffectual Mr. Wilson, the retired neighbor perpetually busting a gasket at the antics of pesky little Dennis the Menace. 
 The week's most revealing incident occurred on Wednesday when the new, supposedly improved McCain campaign management finalized its grand plan to counter Mr. Obama's Berlin speech with a ''Mission Accomplished''-like helicopter landing on an oil rig off Louisiana's coast. The announcement was posted on politico.com even as any American with a television could see that Hurricane Dolly was imminent. Needless to say, this bit of theater was almost immediately ''postponed'' but not before raising the question of whether a McCain administration would be just as hapless in anticipating the next Katrina as the Bush-Brownie storm watch. 
 When not plotting such stunts, the McCain campaign whines about its lack of press attention like a lover jilted for a younger guy. The McCain camp should be careful what it wishes for. As its relentless goading of Mr. Obama to visit Iraq only ratcheted up anticipation for the Democrat's triumphant trip, so its insistent demand for joint town-hall meetings with Mr. Obama and for more televised chronicling of Mr. McCain's wanderings could be self-inflicted disasters in the making. 
 Mr. McCain may be most comfortable at town-hall meetings before largely friendly crowds, but his performance under pressure at this year's G.O.P. primary debates was erratic. His sound-bite-deep knowledge of the country's No. 1 issue, the economy, is a Gerald Ford train wreck waiting to happen in any matchup with Mr. Obama that requires focused, time-limited answers rather than rambling. 
 During Mr. McCain's last two tours of the Middle East -- conducted without the invasive scrutiny of network anchors -- the only news he generated was his confusion of Sunni with Shia and his embarrassing stroll through a ''safe'' Baghdad market with helicopter cover. He should thank his stars that few TV viewers saw that he was even less at home when walking through a chaotic Pennsylvania supermarket last week. He inveighed against the price of milk while reading from a note card and felt the pain of a shopper planted by the local Republican Party. 
 The election remains Mr. Obama's to lose, and he could lose it, whether through unexpected events, his own vanity or a vice-presidential misfire. But what we've learned this month is that America, our allies and most likely the next Congress are moving toward Mr. Obama's post-Iraq vision of the future, whether he reaches the White House or not. That's some small comfort as we contemplate the strange alternative offered by the Republicans: a candidate so oblivious to our nation's big challenges ahead that he is doubling down in his campaign against both Mr. Maliki and Mr. Obama to be elected commander in chief of the surge. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (68%); ARMED FORCES (62%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



709 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: An Exclusive Club Gets Included

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Lyndon Baines Johnson understood power on the atomic level. He knew what bills would fly in Congress, how to build coalitions, which lawmakers were undecided. He had an insider's knowledge of their egos and frailties. He appreciated that he couldn't succeed with just Martin Luther King Jr. on his team; he needed Everett M. Dirksen, the Senate's Republican leader, too. His touch could be light or very firm, as the moment required.
 Hence: Medicare and Medicaid, the Civil Rights Acts, the war on poverty and the war in Vietnam -- one of the most activist and controversial agendas ever enacted by a president (and in just five years, at that).
 Johnson's gifts for leadership had nothing to do with being John F. Kennedy's vice president; he honed his skills, and built a useful list of chits, as majority leader of the Senate from 1955 to 1960. He proved the upsides of senatorial savvy in the Oval Office -- an uncommon display, given the tendency of voters to favor governors, vice presidents and generals as presidential candidates with executive experience. 
 John McCain or Barack Obama would be only the third president in history to go directly from the Senate to the White House. And, perhaps not coincidentally, both men face an electorate that seems more open to Senate-style compromise and negotiation, defying conventional wisdom in modern politics.
 Maybe what John Kerry -- one in a long line of failed senators-cum-nominees -- called the ''stubbornness'' and ''rigidity'' of the Bush administration has changed all that. The alienation of allies; the go-it-alone strategy in Iraq; and the lack of immigration reform and a new energy policy; the rise in gas prices and health care costs have left many Americans in a dyspeptic mood. And with all the problems in the world, polls show there is a desire for a candidate with more foreign policy experience than a typical governor has.
 Given the costs of a with-us-or-against-us presidency that achieved relatively little on Capitol Hill, maybe voters think a split-the-difference senator isn't such a bad idea. In a New York Times/CBS poll in February, 72 percent of Republican primary voters said they wanted a Republican president to compromise with Democrats to ''get more things done,'' while 14 percent wanted a president to stick to the party's positions. Democratic primary voters lined up in a similar way behind a Democratic president.
 ''It makes a great deal of sense that McCain and Obama are the first senators who will jump to the presidency in a long time,'' said Scott Reed, a Republican strategist who was campaign manager for the 1996 nominee, Senator Bob Dole. ''Obama knows how to maneuver problems by using the right language, how to use the visuals of national politics, how to be pragmatic -- all Senate skills, though he hasn't been there for long.''
 ''In McCain's case, the Senate chamber allowed him to build this independent maverick streak that made him the perfect nominee for this cycle,'' Mr. Reed said. ''And I think as president, he'll engage Congress in untraditional ways. He has a great sense of what will pass on the Hill. He's learned from the Bush years that it's tough to force-feed Congress. And like L.B.J., he understands power and how to use it.''
 Beyond the nominees' skill sets, their reputations for flexible thinking and their abilities to adjust to new conditions and changing facts may come as a relief after the ideological rigidity of the current Bush administration, not to mention decades of partisan Washington bickering under Democratic and Republican presidents.
 ''Normally a 'change' election is about a rejection of a certain ideology or the ultimate triumph of a countering ideology, like Reagan in '80 and Gingrich in '94,'' said John Weaver, a Republican strategist who worked for Mr. McCain until last year. ''This one strikes me as all about electing a person who can come in and solve big problems -- putting the country first, not ideology.''
 Rahm Emanuel, a Democratic congressman and a supporter and adviser to Mr. Obama, said that the two nominees show that both parties are seeking a break from Mr. Bush -- on issues when it comes to Mr. Obama, and style and approach with both men.
 ''What people are looking for, most of all, is someone who is an antidote to what they see as the current president's negatives: too divisive, too stuck in his ways, a man who doesn't share Americans' priorities,'' he said.
 Not that either Mr. McCain or Mr. Obama is some sort of gooey post-partisan, of course. Mr. McCain wants to stay the course in Iraq, and has all but promised to toe the right wing's line on Supreme Court nominations. Mr. Obama, for all of his talk about unity, is pushing a standard-issue liberal agenda in many respects, including universal health insurance and tax increases on the wealthy.
 Yet both men have shown some original talents in the Senate, too. After his defeat in the presidential primaries in 2000, Mr. McCain recast himself in Washington as an issue-oriented problem-solver, and unsettled some Republicans by working with liberals like Russ Feingold and Edward M. Kennedy to enact campaign finance reform and attempt an overhaul of the immigration system. And he infuriated many in his party by helping build the so-called ''Gang of 14,'' a bipartisan group of senators that sought to avoid a showdown over President Bush's judicial nominations.
 Mr. Obama, who was elected to the Senate in 2004, showed discipline in steering clear of fiery partisan rhetoric in Washington, and moved quickly to work with Republicans on an ethics reform package. To a great extent, as a new member, he kept his head down and did not showboat, even though he was something of a celebrity in the Senate. And even before he joined the body, he already understood the importance of awing an audience; his Democratic convention speech in 2004 was a career-making moment for him, and he knew it well beforehand, aides say.
 Mr. McCain also has substantial foreign policy bona fides -- as a Vietnam veteran and prisoner of war, as a member of the Armed Services Committee -- that many Americans, according to public and private campaign polls, still want in a president. Mr. Obama, a relative newcomer to the Foreign Relations Committee, moved to accumulate national security experience on the fly, literally, when he traveled last week to Afghanistan, Iraq, the Middle East and Europe.
 Peter Hart, a Democratic pollster who worked on Walter Mondale's campaign in 1984 and Mr. Kennedy's in 1980, said the profiles of the two nominees meshed with his early view that the 2008 election would be ''a rare Washington year.''
 ''There's a real desire for a new president to be experienced and knowledgeable in foreign affairs and about Washington, in part a reaction to President Bush's inexperience and to Iraq,'' Mr. Hart said. ''And our polls are showing that people want government to take a stronger role in solving the issues of the day.''
 In other elections, a ''strong leader'' -- a much-tested phrase of presidential pollsters -- was the foremost quality that voters sought, to the disadvantage of some senators seeking the presidency. Senator George McGovern, the Democratic nominee in 1972, was a traditional liberal facing an incumbent president who promised strength, Richard M. Nixon. Walter Mondale, Jimmy Carter's vice president and a former senator, had the misfortune of challenging Ronald Reagan, the incumbent, who had shown himself to be strong and unyielding with the Soviets.
 Republican senators haven't fared much better. Mr. Dole wasviewed as another master of the Senate, who had friends in both parties and whose word was his bond, but he was running against an incumbent who enjoyed an improving economy, and he struck some voters as too old and out of touch. Other senators, like Sam Brownback, Orrin Hatch, Richard Lugar and Arlen Specter, had more experience than Republican presidential candidates like Pat Buchanan and Steve Forbes, but the senators came off as less colorful and more stentorian.
 Of course, there have been presidents other than L.B.J. who had served in the Senate and profited in the White House from lessons learned on Capitol Hill -- Harry Truman, Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Nixon among them. 
 And Senator Obama and Senator McCain aren't the only members of that club to have done well with voters this year. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who also ran as a pragmatist and a bipartisan-minded senator, nearly beat Mr. Obama.
 ''Voters are much more willing to take a whole fresh look at where this country needs to go this year,'' Mr. Hart said. ''Instead of saying that experience is my guidepost, they're willing to say 'new ideas and new directions will be my guideposts.' ''
 Including, it seems, a different kind of president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DEAL-MAKING Senator McCain cast himself as a problem-solver in the Senate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN DURICKA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(WK3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); MEDICARE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); IMMIGRATION (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%); MEDICAID (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



710 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Cuban President Warns of Tough Times Ahead

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Cuba 

 BODY:
President Raul Castro used a speech Saturday on the 55th anniversary of the beginning of the Cuban revolution not to unveil any new changes but to call on everyday Cubans to prepare for tough times in the days ahead. 
 Citing the global economic downturn and the rising cost of oil, Mr. Castro said Cuba and other countries in the developing world face severe challenges that would require belt-tightening and patience.
 ''We must bear in mind that we are living in the midst of a true world crisis which is not only economic but also related with climate change, the irrational use of energy and a great number of other problems,'' he said.
 There was speculation that Mr. Castro, who officially took over the presidency in February from Fidel Castro, his older brother, would use Cuba's important July 26th holiday -- which commemorates a failed raid on a military barracks here -- to extend the rash of modest changes he had announced in recent months. But he seemed eager to dampen expectations.
 ''We are aware of the great number of problems waiting to be solved, most of which weigh heavily and directly on the population,'' he said, adding later, ''Regardless of our great wishes to solve every problem, we cannot spend in excess of what we have.''
 Citing one bright spot, he said that tourism had grown 14.8 percent in the first half of this year compared with last year, with nearly 1.3 million people visiting the island.
 And the president, a former defense minister, said the country was as prepared as ever for any invasion that might be planned by the United States.
 ''We shall continue paying special attention to defense, regardless of the results of the next presidential elections in the United States,'' he said. 
 Mr. Castro used last year's July 26th speech to acknowlege that wages were too low in the country and pledge reforms to energize the economy. In 2006, Fidel Castro gave the speech, which turned out to be his final address before he underwent emergency intestinal surgery, from which he has never completely recovered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (92%); FIDEL CASTRO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2008



711 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES, JULY 27, 2008

 BODY:
International
 LOOKING PAST KREMLIN,
 Russian Tabloids Thrive
 The Russian newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda, formerly a gray government mouthpiece, is now part of a vibrant tabloid culture that illustrates the complex nature of life under Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin: As long as the papers do not threaten the Kremlin or its closest friends, they can be as raucous as they like. PAGE 6 
 MORE EXPLOSIONS IN INDIA
 At least 16 explosions rocked an Indian city for the second time in two days, this time in the western city of Ahmedabad Gujarat State, killing 29. The Indian government said cities across the country had been put on alert for similar attacks. Similar blasts went off in the southern technology hub of Bangalore on Friday. PAGE 10 
 FATAH IS RAIDED IN GAZA
 Hamas police officers in Gaza rounded up scores of activists in Fatah, the rival Palestinian movement, and raided its offices after five Hamas militants and a young girl were killed in a bomb blast late Friday, local residents said. The explosion and the Hamas reaction stoked internal tensions in Gaza to one of the highest levels since the Hamas takeover of the Palestinian territory last year. PAGE 10 
 Qantas Inquiry Persists 9
 NATIONAL
 FLORIDA AGENTS PROTEST
 Bond for Cuba Travel
 Florida travel agents who provide charter flights to Cuba are relieved after a judge temporarily lifted a measure requiring them to post a $250,000 bond to continue doing business with Cuba. But the battle between state lawmakers and the agents is far from over. PAGE 13 
 TEAM FAULTED FOR SPONSOR
 The Washington Nationals opened their season with the country's first certified green professional sports stadium. That hasn't spared them protests from environmentalists, who are taking issue with the Nationals' advertising relationship with ExxonMobil. PAGE 13 
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 LIFE ON THE FRINGES
 Of the New Brooklyn
 Newer residents of Bedford-Stuyvesant, a Brooklyn neighborhood which has high rates of crime and foreclosures, but which New York magazine labeled the city's ''next hipster enclave,'' have grown frustrated waiting for change to come. PAGE 18 
 A MEMBERS-ONLY TRACK
 The Monticello Motor Club is where members pay $125,000 to push their Ferraris to the limit without worrying about speeding tickets. Neighbors complain it is a throwback to an age before high gasoline prices made fuel economy big news. PAGE 19 
 SPORTS
 THE JETS, BRETT FAVRE
 And Desperation
 When the Jets began inquiring about a possible acquisition of Brett Favre, the retired star quarterback, they did so in the hope that he would be an immediate improvement over their incumbent signal-callers. But for Coach Eric Mangini and Mike Tannenbaum, the team's general manager, there's also the hope that Favre could help save their jobs. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE 1 
 HISTORY AND TEDIUM
 Indianapolis Motor Speedway is laden with history, which makes it fun for stock car drivers to drive into. Racing there is another story, as the stock car races on the track tend not to have a lot of lead changes and the track requires that the drivers go much slower. PAGE 6 
 Wrigley Field North 2 
 OBITUARIES
 KATHERINE KINKADE, 77
 A utopian idealist, she with fellow believers took over a former tobacco farm in Charlottesville, Va., in 1967 to found Twin Oaks, an experimental community inspired by the behaviorist ideas of B. F. Skinner. ''She was the Hillary Clinton of Twin Oaks,'' Ms. Kinkade's daughter said. PAGE 20 
 NORMAN DELLO JOIO, 95
 A composer who achieved wide popularity in the mid-20th century with a proliferation of lyrical works, he wrote dozens of pieces each for chorus, orchestra, solo voice, chamber groups and piano, as well as three operas, among them ''The Triumph of St. Joan.'' PAGE 20 
 CHARLES L. BRIEANT JR., 85
 A former chief judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, he presided over a raft of controversial and sometimes unusual cases. PAGE 20 
 The Magazine
 GLIMPSES OF WOMEN
 In a Closed World
 The photographer Stephanie Sinclair was given rare access two weeks ago to some of the women at the center of the battle between the State of Texas and the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The women may be keeping their faith, Sarah Corbett writes in a companion essay, but they have had to start a relationship with the world they call the ''outside.'' PAGE 36 
 An Afghan Narco-State? 44 
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 AN UPSTART AGENCY
 Lands Big Names
 Creative Artists Agency has long been the talent industry's leader. Then came Endeavor, a junior agency known for the sort of quick thinking and ferocity that carried Creative Artists to the top. But Endeavor must show it has staying power, and how it accomplishes that task offers a window onto the shifting landscape of talent brokering in Hollywood. PAGE 1 
 DOWNLOADING CHEMISTRY
 Textbook publishing has a nasty problem on its hands: College students, who regularly pay hundreds of dollars a book, are beginning to download textbooks free on pirate Web sites. Which is why textbook publishers are going digital, shifting the business model from selling objects to renting access to a site with a time-defined subscription. PAGE 4 
 Beating Foreclosure 1 STYLES
 LEAVING YOUR EGO
 At the Garage Door
 With rising costs at the gas pump, guilt over exhaust, and self-consciousness about the image a full-size behemoth conveys about its driver, Americans' romance with the automobile is being severely tested. ''The love affair is over,'' said one software engineer who just sold his dream car, a Toyota 4Runner. ''I'm ready to let it go.'' PAGE 1 
 AUDITIONS AT THE CAMPFIRE
 The frenzy that many children face to get into the right school is particularly acute for those who aspire to a career in the performing arts. Attending the right summer theater camps (Stagedoor Manor, French Woods) can be a steppingstone to Broadway or even Hollywood. ''It's like the secret handshake,'' said one aspiring actor of Stagedoor Manor. PAGE 1 
 Blogosphere's Glass Ceiling 1 
 ARTS & LEISURE
 EDITING BEIJING'S HISTORY
 With Gentrification
 An explosion of construction activity has transformed Beijing into a modern metropolis. It has also turned many of the city's historical neighborhoods -- known for their narrow alleyways, or hutongs -- into rubble. As grass-roots preservationists labor to protect what remains, they are facing a new, equally insidious threat: gentrification. PAGE 1 
 RETURN OF THE RENEGADE
 Few children's book authors during the cold war years made a habit of playing poker with the Cuban envoy to the United Nations. Or had a side career publishing books of often disturbing erotica. But Tomi Ungerer, who did, left America in 1970 and took his reputation with him. With Phaidon reissuing 20 of his books and the Weinstein Company acquiring the movie rights to one of them, Mr. Ungerer is back in the spotlight. PAGE 1 
 The Demise of Liner Notes 15 TRAVEL
 THREE INTIMATE INNS OFFER
 A Taste of Scotland
 Draw a straight line from where you are to where you're going: That's the scenic route. Now draw a wavy line, or a figure eight: Those routes are just as scenic. The adjective loses meaning after a while. The Highlands of Scotland are full of gorgeous landscapes and stunning views. And three B&Bs are making the region a culinary destination as well. PAGE 1 
 AMONG CRETE'S GOATHERDS
 The eastern end of Crete, made up of enclaves of 300-year-old cottages once used by olive farmers and goatherds, offers portholes into the island's history and robust geography. Peaceful and primitive, the cottages, many of them now rustic retreats for tourists,give visitors a glimpse into the life of old Crete. PAGE 3 
 BOOK REVIEW
 FOR ONE ENGLISHMAN, 
 The Greatest Love of All
 Thrumpton Hall is a Jacobean manor house in Nottinghamshire. To judge from photographs, it's nothing special, Charles McGrath writes. But the place had an extraordinary hold on Miranda Seymour's father. Her odd and oddly affecting book, ''Thrumpton Hall: A Memoir of Life in My Father's House,'' is a story of house-love that borders on madness. PAGE 1 
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 WHEN TO INDICT
 A War Criminal
 The dueling war crimes cases of July -- the Sudanese president, Omar Hussein al-Bashir, and the Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic -- received distinct reactions from the international community. That's because there is a strand among human rights advocates who say that war crimes indictments should be used only after a conflict is resolved, as such indictments can extend the length of a conflict. PAGE 1 
 SENATOR TO MR. PRESIDENT
 John McCain or Barack Obama will be only the third president to go directly from the Senate to the White House. And, perhaps not coincidentally, Patrick Healy writes, both men face an electorate that seems to crave Senate-style compromise and negotiation, defying conventional wisdom in modern politics. PAGE 1 
 A Brief History of Hacking 2 
 The Siren Call of Escapism 3 
 AUTOMOBILES
 AN OVERACHIEVER
 Lives Up to Its Billing
 Nissan gave the GT-R a clearly defined mission: annihilate nearly every other car on the market around a racetrack while providing seating for four, room for two sets of golf clubs and year-round livability, all for the price of a well-optioned Porsche Cayman S. Amazingly, it hits each of those targets. SPORTS PAGE 11 
 EDUCATION LIFE
 GOOD FOR THE PLANET,
 Good for the Ranking
 When the Princeton Review releases its annual guide to colleges, it will include a new measure: a ''green rating.'' Campuses are thus racing to be the greenest of them all. But some officials worry they are taking easy steps to win the label rather than doing the unglamorous work to reduce carbon emissions. PAGE 26 
 THE SUSTAINABLE HAMPTON
 Stony Brook Southampton, SUNY's newest campus, is building not only an environmentally friendly campus but also a curriculum in which nearly every course deals with sustainability. PAGE 28 
 A Green Charter School 30 
 When Twins Compete 16 
 Editorial
 REBATES RUN THEIR COURSE
 Lawmakers are considering a second round of stimulus. One is needed, but tempting as it is to send out checks in an election year, lawmakers will do a disservice to voters if they simply serve up more of the same. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 Presented with a leadership void, Barack Obama has taken the reins as acting president, and John McCain has cracked. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 12
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 The only good thing to come from soaring oil prices is that they have spurred innovator/investors like T. Boone Pickens and Shai Agassi to move into clean energy with a mad-as-hell, can-do ambition. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 MAUREEN DOWD
 The columnist interviews Barack Obama as they jet from Paris to London, on the last leg of his Eurotrip. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
 TOO BIG TO FAIL OR SURVIVE
 In an Op-Ed article, William Poole, the departing chief executive of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, contends that while the government is right to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac now, it should look to put them out of business over the long run. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL FATAH (90%); HAMAS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CRIME RATES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BAIL (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); ATHLETES (68%); BASEBALL (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (68%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (67%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); JUDGES (51%); TRAVEL AGENTS (51%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST INDIA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (73%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); INDIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008



712 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Subsidies Overseas Take A Toll on U.S.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia 

 BODY:
To understand why fuel prices in the United States have soared over the last year, it helps to talk to the captain of a battered wooden freighter here.
 He pays just $2.30 a gallon for diesel, the same price Indonesian motorists pay for regular gasoline. His vessel burns diesel by the barrel, so when the government prepared for a limited price increase this spring, he took to the streets to protest.
 ''If the government increases the price of fuel any more, my business will collapse totally,'' said the boat captain, Sinar, who like many Indonesians uses only one name.
 From Mexico to India to China, governments fearful of inflation and street protests are heavily subsidizing energy prices, particularly for diesel fuel. But the subsidies -- estimated at $40 billion this year in China alone -- are also removing much of the incentive to conserve fuel. 
 The oil company BP, known for thorough statistical analysis of energy markets, estimates that countries with subsidies accounted for 96 percent of the world's increase in oil use last year -- growth that has helped drive prices to record levels. 
 In most countries that do not subsidize fuel, high prices have caused oil demand to stagnate or fall, as economic theory says they should. But in countries with subsidies, demand is still rising steeply, threatening to outstrip the growth in global supplies.
 President Bush warned about the effects of subsidies on July 15. ''I am discouraged by the fact that some nations subsidize the purchases of product, like gasoline, which, therefore, means that demand may not be causing the market to adjust as rapidly as we'd like,'' he said.
 Indeed, the biggest question hanging over global oil markets these days may be how much longer countries can keep paying the high cost of subsidizing their consumers. If enough countries start passing the true cost of oil through to their citizens, many economists believe, demand growth will slow, bringing the oil market into better balance and lowering prices -- although the long-term economic rise of China and other populous countries makes it unlikely that gasoline prices will plunge back to the levels of several years ago.
 China raised gasoline and diesel prices on June 21, though still keeping them below world levels. World oil prices plunged more than $4 a barrel within minutes on the expectation that Chinese demand would slow.
 In Indonesia, the government spends six times as much on energy subsidies as it does on agricultural investments, even as rice prices have skyrocketed this year. 
 Many countries, like India, have raised oil prices considerably in recent months, only to watch world prices climb even further, pushing up the cost of subsidies once again. China's estimated $40 billion in subsidies this year is up from $22 billion last year, mainly for this reason, although consumption has also risen, with Chinese buying 18 percent more cars in the first half of this year than in the period a year earlier. 
 Political pressures and inflation concerns continue to prevent many countries -- particularly in Asia, where inflation has become an acute problem -- from ending subsidies and letting domestic prices bounce up and down.
 ''You talk about subsidies, you're not only talking about the economy, you're talking about politics,'' said Purnomo Yusgiantoro, Indonesia's minister of energy and mineral resources. He ruled out further price increases this year beyond one in May that raised the price of diesel and regular gasoline to $2.30 a gallon.
 Nobuo Tanaka, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said that subsidies were clearly a big factor contributing to the mismatch in supply and demand that has helped push up world oil prices. ''We think the price mechanism is not working enough to make consumers more efficient,'' he said. 
 Indonesia spends more on fuel subsidies, $20 billion this year, than any country except China. Some economists estimate that fuel use in Indonesia would fall by as much as a fifth if the government were to eliminate subsidies entirely.
 Malaysia's government incited public anger on June 4 when it raised gasoline prices by 40 percent. The prime minister, Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, announced the following week that he would retire, although he has since said that he will not do so until 2010.
 Before adjusting the prices, Malaysia was spending 7.5 percent of its entire economic output on fuel subsidies, a greater share than any other nation. Indonesia follows with 4 percent. 
 Coming elections in Indonesia and India make further subsidy reductions less likely in both countries. And big oil exporters like Saudi Arabia have so much revenue right now that they can easily afford to subsidize fast-growing domestic demand.
 Chinese fuel policy is the hardest to predict: the country's leaders are struggling to reduce inflation and are not expected to take any action on fuel until after the Olympics, at the earliest. But they are also campaigning for greater energy efficiency and less reliance on fuel imports.
 Many in Asia bridle at being told to reduce oil use, particularly by the United States, a country of sport-utility vehicles and big houses.
 ''What about the energy consumption in the United States? Isn't it one of the highest in the world?'' said Irvan Saefurrohman, a student activist in Jakarta who organized a fuel-price demonstration in May that turned violent as protesters threw rocks at police and set cars on fire.
 Making matters worse, Asia's own oil production has barely risen over the last decade.
 Indonesia, with extensive oil fields that made it a top target for Japanese conquest during World War II, became a net oil importer in 2004. Output from its aging fields has fallen almost 40 percent since 1995, and the country plans to withdraw from OPEC at the end of this year.
 So Asian nations increasingly compete with the West to import oil from the Mideast and Africa.
 In Asia, subsidies have been particularly prevalent for diesel, although many countries subsidize gasoline as well. The subsidies have been an important reason diesel prices have climbed almost twice as quickly as gasoline prices have over the last year in the United States.
 Many governments see diesel as more important because truckers and ship captains need it to distribute goods; if diesel prices rise, consumer prices often follow. Diesel is essentially the same fuel as heating oil, so high diesel prices mean high prices for heating oil. Spiraling prices already have some in the Northeast United States worried about how families will afford to heat their homes this winter.
 To be sure, subsidies are not the only cause of high crude oil prices. Strong global economic growth, particularly in Asia, is requiring a lot of energy. Political tensions between the United States and Iran and market psychology have played a role.
 Additional factors have contributed to strong demand for diesel in particular. European automakers have been shifting toward the production of more cars with diesel engines, which typically get more miles to the gallon than gasoline-powered cars -- although the cost advantage of burning diesel is disappearing with higher prices.
 When Vietnam reduced fuel subsidies on July 21, it raised domestic gasoline prices by 31 percent, to $4.22 a gallon for 92-octane fuel. But Vietnam increased diesel prices by only 14.3 percent, to $3.54 a gallon. 
 The fast-growing demand in China is skewed toward diesel as well. Automakers are on track to sell half as many gas-powered cars in China this year as in the United States. But in China they already sell at least 50 percent more medium- and heavy-duty trucks, the workhorses of a manufacturing economy. Virtually all of those run on diesel. 
 The cheapest fuel per gallon in many Asian countries is not diesel but kerosene, commonly used for cooking by the very poor. In India, for example, the government subsidizes kerosene so heavily that it sells for just 97 cents a gallon, compared with $5 a gallon in the United States.
 While the subsidies encourage greater consumption, eliminating them is not easy. ''If you reduce the subsidy for kerosene, people are likely to forage in the forests for fuel, and environmentally that is very bad,'' said Ifzal Ali, the chief economist of the Asian Development Bank.
 Kerosene is similar to jet fuel, so strong Asian demand has helped push up costs for airlines.
 Some spending on subsidies is simply wasted: Mr. Yusgiantoro, the Indonesian official, said that fishing boats take drums of subsidized diesel out to sea for resale to foreign fishing vessels. But a lot of subsidies are delaying what could otherwise be a slowing of economic activity.
 Mr. Sinar, the freighter captain, said that his vessel hauls cement to outlying islands with limited cement production of their own. Higher diesel costs would make it much costlier to move the cement, which would force builders to accept the prices of their local cement producers and probably cause a construction slowdown.
 The nearly 30 percent increase in prices for low-octane gasoline, which Indonesia put in place in May, has already prompted some less affluent families to drive less. Subrata, a 34-year-old who sells gasoline in glass bottles to local motorcyclists in Karawang, Indonesia, said that the increase had halved his sales -- and that plenty of motorists were upset.
 If the price rises further, he said, ''people will not buy it and it will be a heavy blow for the lower classes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Freighters in Jakarta run on diesel, kept cheap by subsidies. Subsidizing nations make up nearly all the growth in oil demand. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEMAL JUFRI/IMAJI, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Without a kerosene subsidy, one economist says, many in India would struggle for heat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARKO DATTA/REUTERS) (pg.A9) CHARTS: SUBSIDIZING FUEL: Fuel consumption has grown more in countries that subsidize it than those that tax it. Total oil consumption is greater in countries with light subsidies than those with heavy subsidies. (Source: BP)
 COSTLY DIESEL: Diesel prices have soared past gasoline prices partly because of strong diesel demand in Asia, where many countries subsidize it more than gasoline. (Source: Energy Information Administration) (pg.A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%) INDONESIA (95%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



713 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: At Hall Enshrinement, Links Are Cherished

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

DATELINE: COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
It was a day of connections Sunday at the annual induction of the newest members of the National Baseball Hall of Fame.
 Goose Gossage apologized to Dick Williams, his San Diego Padres manager, for ignoring orders to walk Kirk Gibson in the eighth inning of Game 5 of the 1984 World Series and surrendering a home run that helped Detroit win the title. ''I should have listened,'' Gossage said.
 One of Bowie Kuhn's stepsons, Paul Degener, thanked Gossage for being the last major leaguer to talk to his father, the former baseball commissioner, several months before his death in 2007. Peter O'Malley, speaking for his father, Walter, who took the Dodgers west, lauded Kuhn for protecting baseball's integrity. 
 And Gossage and Williams lobbied for the election of one of their many employers, George Steinbrenner, to join the Hall in the near future.
 ''I had 10 wonderful years with George as a scout and adviser,'' said Williams, who was hired to manage the Yankees after the 1973 season but was stopped legally by his former boss, Charles O. Finley, whose Oakland Athletics team Williams had left with two years on his deal. ''I'd like to be on the voting committee. I'd vote right away for George.''
 Gossage said: ''I believe he's the greatest owner of all time.''
 The Hall estimated the crowd at 14,000; the meadow seemed emptier than that. The attendance fell below the record 75,000 last year for the induction of Tony Gwynn and Cal Ripken. Village traffic was minimal and there were no lines to enter the Hall, a rarity on induction weekend.
 Gas prices were surely a reason (the Hall's attendance has dropped since July 4 after a record June) and Gossage was the only close-to-contemporary drawing card, elected after falling short of the required votes eight times. Ripken and Gwynn also benefited from playing for only one team; Gossage played for nine teams, and Williams managed for six.
 Still, fans shouted, ''Goose!'' and wore jerseys bearing his name. Others wore the gaudy green and gold of Williams's Athletics teams of the 1970s that won two World Series. And only a smattering of boos from anti-O'Malleyites accompanied the segment about the Dodgers' owner.
 Gossage, Williams, O'Malley and Kuhn were inducted along with Barney Dreyfuss, the owner of the Pittsburgh Pirates and midwife to the modern World Series; and Billy Southworth, who managed the St. Louis Cardinals in 1929 and from 1940 to 1945, and the Boston Braves from 1946 to 1951.
 Williams, 79, recalled being an under-age, 7-year-old member of the Knothole Gang at Sportsman's Park in St. Louis, rushing from school to watch Cardinals and Browns games. ''I didn't get much homework done,'' he said, ''but I saw a lot of great baseball.''
 Gossage said that his ferocious pitching motion came from tiring, frustrating sessions with his brother Jack. He said he would throw it as hard as he could but his brother pushed and mocked him and called him a sissy for not throwing hard enough. ''I'd have tears in my eyes, I'd be trying so hard,'' he said. ''But looking back, that's where my wild delivery came from, all arms and legs, flailing, coming right at you.''
 Dave Niehaus, a Seattle Mariners broadcaster since their inception, and recipient of the Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasters, remembered being a child at home in Indiana in the 1940s when ''suddenly from the old Zenith floor-model radio in the living room comes this voice screaming, 'It might be, it could be, it is,' and this young boy jumps about three or four inches off the ground with each halting phrase.
 ''Magic is happening in St. Louis, Mo.,'' Niehaus added. ''Stan Musial hit another home run about a zillion miles away and a career has germinated that ends up here in Cooperstown today.''
 Kuhn's baseball life received a jump-start when he was a teenager, as the scoreboard boy at Griffith Stadium in Washington. His tenure as commissioner was tumultuous and riven by labor strife. Degener described a deeply religious man who adored baseball and whose relentless focus was on protecting and preserving the sport's integrity.
 ''Dad saw baseball in its purest form as an ethereal ballet played on a stage of natural beauty and perfection,'' said Degener, whose biological father died in a car accident before his birth and who was raised by his mother, Luisa, and Kuhn. Degener said his father stayed patient despite ''unwarranted and occasionally cruel criticism.''
 He said Kuhn was ''once called racially insensitive'' for not attending the game in which Hank Aaron hit his 715th home run, ''despite working for more than two years to open the Hall of Fame gates to the many stars from the Negro leagues.''
 He said Kuhn was ''called a prude when he would not let a woman into the men's World Series clubhouse, despite spending night after night in a hospital AIDS ward reading to dying gay men, even before the dangers of that disease were fully understood.''
 And on the day of his funeral, Degener said, his father was called ''economically uninformed'' despite having been an economics major at Princeton and ''leading America's greatest game to new pinnacles of revenue.'' 
 Degener added that his father ''would have forgiven'' his critics ''and asked us, his family, to forgive them as well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Second from left, Peter O'Malley, flanked by the Hall president, Jeff Idelson, and chairman, Jane Forbes Clark, accepting a plaque of his father, Walter. At right, Commissioner Bud Selig. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MCISAAC/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); LOBBYING (69%); STEPPARENTS (56%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



714 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Another Temporary Fix

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So the big housing bill has passed Congress. That's good news: Fannie and Freddie had to be rescued, and the bill's other main provision -- a special loan program to head off foreclosures -- will help some hard-pressed families. It's much better to have this bill than not.
 But I hope nobody thinks that Congress has done all, or even a large fraction, of what needs to be done. 
 This bill is the latest in a series of temporary fixes to the financial system -- attempts to hold the thing together with bungee cords and masking tape -- that have, at least so far, succeeded in staving off complete collapse. But those fixes have done nothing to resolve the system's underlying flaws. In fact, they set the stage for even bigger future disasters -- unless they're followed up with fundamental reforms.
 Before I get to that, let's be clear about one thing: Even if this bill succeeds in its aims, heading off a severe credit contraction and helping some homeowners avoid foreclosure, it won't change the fact that this decade's double bubble, in housing prices and loose lending, has been a disaster for millions of Americans. 
 After all, the new bill will, at best, make a modest dent in the rate of foreclosures. And it does nothing at all for those who aren't in danger of losing their houses but are seeing much if not all of their net worth wiped out -- a particularly bitter blow to Americans who are nearing retirement, or thought they were until they discovered that they couldn't afford to stop working. 
 It's too late to avoid that pain. But we can try to ensure that we don't face more and bigger crises in the future. 
 The back story to the current crisis is the way traditional banks -- banks with federally insured deposits, which are limited in the risks they're allowed to take and the amount of leverage they can take on -- have been pushed aside by unregulated financial players. We were assured by the likes of Alan Greenspan that this was no problem: the market would enforce disciplined risk-taking, and anyway, taxpayer funds weren't on the line.
 And then reality struck.
 Far from being disciplined in their risk-taking, lenders went wild. Concerns about the ability of borrowers to repay were waved aside; so were questions about whether soaring house prices made sense.
 Lenders ignored the warning signs because they were part of a system built around the principle of heads I win, tails someone else loses. Mortgage originators didn't worry about the solvency of borrowers, because they quickly sold off the loans they made, generally to investors who had no idea what they were buying. Throughout the financial industry, executives received huge bonuses when they seemed to be earning big profits, but didn't have to give the money back when those profits turned into even bigger losses. 
 And as for that business about taxpayers' money not being at risk? Never mind. Over the past year the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Treasury have put hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars on the line, propping up financial institutions deemed too big or too strategic to fail. (I'm not blaming them -- I don't think they had any alternative.)
 Meanwhile, those traditional, regulated banks played a minor role in the lending frenzy, except to the extent that they had unregulated, ''off balance sheet'' subsidiaries. The case of IndyMac -- which failed because it specialized in risky Alt-A loans while regulators looked the other way -- is the exception that proves the rule.
 The moral of this story seems clear -- and it's what Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has been saying for some time: financial regulation needs to be extended to cover a much wider range of institutions. Basically, the financial framework created in the 1930s, which brought generations of relative stability, needs to be updated to 21st-century conditions.
 The desperate rescue efforts of the past year make expanded regulation even more urgent. If the government is going to stand behind financial institutions, those institutions had better be carefully regulated -- because otherwise the game of heads I win, tails you lose will be played more furiously than ever, at taxpayers' expense. 
 Of course, proponents of expanded regulation, no matter how compelling their arguments, will have to contend with very well-financed opposition from the financial industry. And as Upton Sinclair pointed out, it's hard to get a man to understand something when his salary -- or, we might add, his campaign war chest -- depends on his not understanding it.
 But let's hope that the sheer scale of this financial crisis has concentrated enough minds to make reform possible. Otherwise, the next crisis will be even bigger. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (61%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



715 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Batman Weekend 2: $75 Million, Still Ahead

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Batman fever continued over the weekend, with ticket sales for ''The Dark Knight'' far outpacing the competition and breaking a fresh batch of box-office records. 
 ''The Dark Knight'' sold an estimated $75.6 million in tickets at North American theaters from Friday to Sunday, according to Warner Brothers. Among other records it delivered the best second-weekend gross in recent Hollywood history.
 ''This picture has really taken on a life of its own,'' said Dan Fellman, Warner's president for domestic distribution.
 The success of ''The Dark Knight'' is an example of what can happen when an array of factors coincide very much by accident, industry analysts and studio executives said. 
 An expertly executed promotional campaign from the studio's marketing chief, Sue Kroll, helped build anticipation for the performance as the Joker by Heath Ledger, who died in January. The brooding film, directed by Christopher Nolan, also fits the nation's mood, Warner Brothers executives said. The sour economy is probably helping, as movies are still a relatively affordable form of entertainment.
 ''We are starting to see a lot of repeat business,'' Mr. Fellman said. ''Older audiences are also starting to turn out in big numbers.''
 Going into its second weekend ''The Dark Knight'' may also have benefited from a storm of publicity that came when its star, Christian Bale, was questioned by the police in London after his mother and sister accused him of assault. Mr. Bale denied the accusations and was released without being charged.
 ''The Dark Knight'' has sold $314.2 million in tickets domestically in its first 10 days of release, a record. The film is still rolling out internationally.
 The weekend was not as kind to 20th Century Fox. The studio's ''X-Files: I Want to Believe,'' a big-screen revival of the hit television series, sold an estimated $10.2 million in tickets in North America. It landed in fourth place, narrowly ahead of ''Journey to the Center of the Earth,'' which sold $9.5 million in tickets -- $72 million total since its July 11 release. Chris Aronson, Fox's senior vice president for distribution, said that ''X-Files'' had also sold $9.3 million in tickets in its limited overseas release, and as a result, the $30 million movie ''will be more than profitable at the end of the day.'' 
 ''Step Brothers,'' starring Will Ferrell and distributed by Sony's Columbia Pictures, opened in second place with an estimated $30 million in domestic ticket sales, demonstrating continuing demand among younger moviegoers for sophomoric comedies.
 In third place was ''Mamma Mia!'' with an estimated ''$17.8 million in sales ($135.3 million total). The second-weekend performance of the musical, distributed by Universal Pictures, was strong, dropping just 35 percent, one of the lowest dips of the summer among wide releases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); FILM (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



716 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: For Many Student Athletes, Game Over

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Student athletes in maroon and gold uniforms filled their water coolers with more than $19,000 in donations last weekend by standing on street corners here to ask friends, neighbors and strangers alike to help revive the school district's $1.1 million athletic program, which was eliminated last month in budget cuts.
 On Long Island, a group of parents started a charitable corporation, Wantagh S O S (Save Our Students), to collect money for nearly 100 sports teams and extracurricular clubs that were dropped from the school district's budget last month. The group has raised more than $334,000, about half of its goal, through dinner parties, car washes, a lacrosse tournament and a walk-a-thon at Jones Beach. 
 And come fall, middle school students in Dearborn, Mich., will have to settle for fewer games after every team's season was cut by a quarter, or about two weeks, to save $130,000 annually on busing and coaching. The district trimmed the schedules after students and parents opposed its plan to replace the sports teams with an intramural program, in which students would not have competed against other schools. 
 As cash-strapped school districts across the nation scale back sports programs or try to pass on part or all of their costs to students and parents, some fear that the tradition of the scholar athlete is at risk. In Mount Vernon -- where this year more than 700 students were expected to participate on 55 teams in basketball, football, volleyball, tennis, cross country, track, soccer, wrestling, swimming, baseball, softball, golf and cheerleading -- many teachers and parents say that sports not only keep children coming to school but also keep them away from crime, drugs and gang activity. 
 ''The field, the pool, the court are our classrooms, and the coaches are our teachers,'' said Donna Pirro, an assistant principal who was the district's athletic director until that title was eliminated along with the sports program. ''Education through athletics should be taken seriously because it builds the kind of teamwork, self-discipline and social skills that our children need to succeed in any career they pursue.''
 School officials here and elsewhere say they recognize the value of athletic programs, but have little choice as they face rising teacher salaries and mounting costs for benefits, special education classes and utility bills that are soaring with higher fuel prices and inflation. W. L. Sawyer, superintendent of the 10,046-student Mount Vernon district, said he was forced to choose between pre-kindergarten classes and sports after voters rejected the school budget twice this spring.
 ''There were a lot of other things that were cut before we got to the sports program,'' he said, explaining that even though the district went from a $178.8 million budget last year to a $187.4 million contingency budget, it had to increase class size to 29 from 26 in the high school and lay off 100 employees, or about 6 percent of the district staff. The move away from athletics comes as many public schools, under pressure to increase standardized test scores, are also cutting back on physical education classes and shortening recess periods to free up time for test preparation. 
 Stewart Trost, an associate professor in the Department of Nutrition and Exercise Sciences at Oregon State University, said that while schools had a tradition of providing physical exercise that dated to the 1850s, less than 10 percent of the nation's public schools now have daily physical education classes. ''In a No Child Left Behind era, all nonmath, nonreading classes have been cut back,'' he said. 
 But Professor Trost argued that ''ensuring the health of children is part and parcel of the academic mission of schools in that you have to be healthy to learn,'' citing studies showing that students who participate in a physical activity or sports perform better on standardized tests, and are less likely to smoke, use drugs, or engage in unprotected or promiscuous sex.
 School officials do not dispute the benefits of sports, but instead emphasize that their primary responsibility is academics. Dr. Sawyer acknowledged that cutting athletics ''leaves a tremendous hole'' but pointed out that the district's pre-kindergarten classes served 400 students, many of whom came from disadvantaged families. 
 ''It's a tough decision because we know cutting sports has an impact, but you have to consider what impacts the most children,'' he said.
 Similarly, Carl Bonuso, Wantagh's superintendent, said that his priority was to maintain smaller class sizes -- from 24 in the early elementary grades to up to 30 in the high school after the school budget failed to pass this spring for the first time in two decades. 
 His district's $63.1 million contingency budget called for reducing the district's staff of 400 by 5 teaching and 10 support positions, a number that most likely would have risen if the district had not also saved $650,000 by cutting 46 athletic teams and more than 50 activities, including orchestra and the drama and French clubs, said Dr. Bonuso, who agreed to freeze his salary, as well as those of two assistant superintendents and their secretaries.
 But many parents contend that schools should also be required to fund sports and extracurricular activities. One parent, Don Desroches, said he was spending two hours a day on Wantagh S O S so that his son could play basketball and his daughter could join the orchestra and the chorus this fall, activities he considered crucial to building character and good citizenship.
 ''I feel like it's a one-time effort, and we shouldn't have to do this on a regular basis,'' said Mr. Desroches, 46, who owns a company that runs soccer, basketball and baseball classes for children from ages 3 to 18. ''I'm doing this now because it's necessary, but it also takes a lot of time and effort.''
 Across the country, schools have increasingly augmented tight budgets by charging students fees that can run to hundreds of dollars, a practice that is prohibited in New York State. The 17,600-student Dearborn district, in addition to shortening athletic seasons this year, also charges fees of up to $350 per family per year for students to participate in athletics and extracurricular activities.
 This week, the 9,000-student Olympia district in Washington State raised its fees for middle school to $60 per sport from $40 to help cover a projected $2 million budget shortfall; the fees were introduced five years ago during another budget crisis. Three years ago, the high school diving teams were narrowly saved by a parent who covered the $4,600.
 Similarly, at a Catholic high school in Somers, N.Y., freshman teams in basketball, baseball and volleyball were cut last week and then quickly reinstated after an anonymous benefactor donated $10,000.
 Here in Mount Vernon, students and parents have raised more than $55,000 of the $950,000 district officials say is required to restore the athletic program (the district will pay insurance costs, bringing the total down from $1.1 million). The high-profile campaign has attracted the support of the mayor, Clinton I. Young Jr., as well as Ben Gordon of the Chicago Bulls, a 2001 graduate, who helped initiate fund-raising events, including a reggae concert and a cocktail reception with food donated by local restaurants. 
 But district officials say they need to have at least $300,000 in hand by Aug. 10 to start the fall season.
 The uncertain future of Mount Vernon's sports has been particularly hard on the boy's basketball team, a perennial contender for state championships and a source of local pride. ''They cut out part of my life,'' said Mark Cole, 17, a senior, who continued to practice with his teammates this week in a sweltering gym with no air-conditioning. ''Everybody needs sports for something, whether it's dreaming of playing professionally or getting a scholarship to college or just staying off the streets.''
 Jomo Belfor, 25, a teacher's aide who graduated from the school in 2002, said playing basketball had given him stability and structure and ''made me a totally different person.'' Mr. Belfor, who played Division I basketball at James Madison University, said he could not understand how the district had failed to find the money for an athletic program that meant so much to so many. 
 ''I just feel that everyone has expenses, and you have to budget for them,'' he said. ''Say you have $20 to spend at the supermarket, you're going to buy necessities: milk, bread, and eggs. Basketball needs to be with the eggs because it affects your community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a basketball camp in Mount Vernon, N.Y., Bob Cimmino instructed players who may not have school teams to play on this year because of budget cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 ''They cut out part of my life,'' said Mark Cole of Mount Vernon, N.Y., whose senior season on the basketball team is in jeopardy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (79%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (79%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); LACROSSE (75%); SOCCER (75%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); SOFTBALL (73%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%); GANGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



717 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: In Volatile Times, Investors Tune in All and Any Predictions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The news hit Wall Street trading floors on the morning of July 2: Some analyst at Merrill Lynch was saying the General Motors Corporation might go bankrupt. 
 Within minutes, the share price of G.M., the landmark corporation that once symbolized America's industrial might, was plunging to its lowest point since 1954. 
 What the Merrill analyst actually wrote, in a downbeat report on the troubled automotive giant, was that bankruptcy for G.M. was ''not impossible'' -- an equivocal forecast that could be applied to almost any event, from winning the lottery to the odds of rain a week from Wednesday.
 But amid a financial crisis where the unthinkable has seemingly become routine, Wall Street forecasters -- and even the markets themselves -- are struggling to get a handle on what will happen next. The result has been a flood of brash pronouncements, as the Cassandras of the financial set try to outdo themselves with increasingly outlandish predictions. 
 ''These are volatile times. There's a lot of moving parts here, and nobody can quite figure out how they all mesh,'' said the investment strategist Edward Yardeni. ''You're hearing a lot of catastrophic predictions.''
 So far, many of these forecasts, whether computer-crunched numbers or seat-of-the-pants guesstimates, have turned out to be wrong. But investors, struggling to make sense of one of the most severe downturns in a generation, still seem to hang on to Wall Street's every word. Forecasts that might have been dismissed a year ago are now earning serious attention and moving markets. 
 Some critics of forecasting say this is a dangerous trend. The events of the last year have lent credence to the case of the heretics who say that Wall Street puts too much faith in its ability to predict the future by looking at the past.
 In a best-selling book, ''The Black Swan,'' Nassim Nicholas Taleb, a former trader, famously blasted economists for exploiting ''our desire to be fooled by a simpler representation of the world.''
 ''I cannot find a single convincing argument that tells me that astrologers won't do better than economists,'' Mr. Taleb said last week by telephone from Lebanon, where he was mountain hiking. 
 ''The problem is the arrogance of these economists,'' he said. ''They're making people rely on theories that have not worked, do not work, and are really dangerous.''
 Mr. Taleb pointed to the reliance of some investors on financial models, the quantitative wizardry that can churn reams of data in an instant. These were the same models that, in the lead-up to the subprime mortgage meltdown, assumed home prices would never decline on a nationwide basis. They also ran so-called stress tests on complex investments that ended up losing money when the economy went south. 
 But despite this decidedly mixed track record, forecasters still enjoy a rapt audience, particularly at a moment when so much in the markets depends on the uncertain course of the housing market and the broader economy. 
 At investment and commercial banks, losses tied to bad mortgage investments, which now exceed $450 billion, are certain to rise further if home prices continue to decline and more people default on their mortgages. Last week, Bill Gross, a prominent bond fund manager, offered another forecast for the final bill: $1 trillion. Some market watchers say the figure could be even higher. 
 Even the collective wisdom of the marketplace has been wrong time and again. The stock market, that weathervane for corporate profits and the economy, keeps swinging from fear to greed and back. A glance at the major stock indexes over the last year reveals a host of false bottoms and fools' rallies.
 The Dow Jones industrials rallied to an all-time high of 14,164 in October, just weeks before the credit crisis worsened and rumors surfaced about problems at Bear Stearns. From there, the index fell 17 percent, to 11,740 in March, then recovered somewhat in the spring, climbing back above 13,000 in May. 
 This month, the market sank again, tumbling below 11,000 as concerns about the financial health of the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, gripped markets around the world. 
 But the forecasts keep coming, many of them with what seems like a remarkable level of precision. Last Tuesday, for example, a well-known finance professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University, Edward Altman, declared that Ford Motor and G.M. had a 46 percent chance of defaulting on their debt sometime in the next five years. Not 47 percent or 45 percent: 46 percent. 
 Mr. Altman's conclusion, based on a computer model, received big play in some parts of the financial press.
 In fact, Mr. Altman found that, on average, companies with an equivalent bond rating to Ford's and G.M.'s face a 50-50 chance of default within five years. His estimate was based on the performance of hundreds of companies, very few of which matched the brand recognition or reach of the two automakers. 
 ''It was sensationalized somewhat,'' Mr. Altman, in an interview, said of his findings. ''The chance of default of that type of company is probably a lot lower.'' 
 He said he intended his findings to be used as ''a metric'' that would offer investors a useful benchmark for comparison. But he allowed that the 46 percent figure ''maybe gives it a little more scientific magic than it deserves.'' Shares of Ford and G.M. rose that day, though the perceived risk of the companies' debt increased. 
 Ideally, predictions on companies and stocks would be ''thoughtful, nontheatrical forecasts that take a look at long-term fundamentals,'' said Abby Joseph Cohen, a longtime strategist at Goldman Sachs. 
 But, Ms. Cohen added, less dramatic forecasts rarely make headlines. ''If what is being provided to viewers and readers are these theatrical forecasts, that is what many people will pay attention to because that's what they have available.''
 Another source of investment guidance used to come from research analysts, who try to predict quarterly earnings at companies. But there is a great deal of guesswork involved here, too. Analysts correctly predict earnings only a fifth of the time. Nearly two-thirds of quarterly earnings beat estimates, and the rest come in too low, according to data from ThomsonReuters. Many companies, of course, try to defuse overly optimistic forecasts to manage investors' expectations and deliver ''better-than-expected'' results.
 This year, Wall Street's crystal balls have performed even worse than in the past. As earnings season for the second quarter winds down, 67 percent of companies reported earnings higher than what analysts had predicted, and 22 percent reported earnings that were worse. Only 10 percent of companies matched analysts' expectations. 
 Poor predictions are nothing new in the financial world: in 1999, a pair of prognosticators -- James K. Glassman and Kevin A. Hassett -- published a book titled ''Dow 36,000''; the blue-chip index closed last week at 11,370. 
 But investors seeking light in a dark period may just have to stick with no one's predictions but their own. 
 ''We have gone from an abnormally calm period, and we've blown right through normal volatility,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''We are in an exceptionally volatile period.'' 
 Indeed. G.M. shares have bounced back from those bankruptcy fears. If you put a dollar into G.M. on July 2, you would have $1.19 today, a gain of nearly 20 percent. Who would have predicted that?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TRENDS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (67%); HOME PRICES (57%); LOTTERIES (55%); BESTSELLERS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); HIKING (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



718 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Say So Long to an Old Companion: Cassette Tapes

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
There was a funeral the other day in the Midtown offices of Hachette, the book publisher, to mourn the passing of what it called a ''dear friend.'' Nobody had actually died, except for a piece of technology, the cassette tape.
 While the cassette was dumped long ago by the music industry, it has lived on among publishers of audio books. Many people prefer cassettes because they make it easy to pick up in the same place where the listener left off, or to rewind in case a certain sentence is missed. For Hachette, however, demand had slowed so much that it released its last book on cassette in June, with ''Sail,'' a novel by James Patterson and Howard Roughan. 
 The funeral at Hachette -- an office party in the audio-book department -- mirrored the broader demise of cassettes, which gave vinyl a run for its money before being eclipsed by the compact disc. (The CD, too, is in rapid decline, thanks to Internet music stores, but that is a different story.) 
 Cassettes have limped along for some time, partly because of their usefulness in recording conversations or making a tape of favorite songs, say, for a girlfriend. But sales of portable tape players, which peaked at 18 million in 1994, sank to 480,000 in 2007, according to the Consumer Electronics Association. The group predicts that sales will taper to 86,000 in 2012.
 ''I bet you would be hard pressed to find a household in the U.S. that doesn't have at least a couple cassette tapes hanging around,'' said Shawn DuBravac, an economist with the Consumer Electronics Association. Even if publishers of music and audio books stopped using cassettes entirely, people would still shop for tape players because of ''the huge libraries of legacy content consumers have kept,'' he said.
 As long as people keep mix tapes from a high-school sweetheart up in the attic, Mr. DuBravac said, there will still be the urge to hear them. ''People have a tremendous amount of installed content and an innate curiosity when coming across a box of tapes to say, 'Hey, what's on these?' '' he said.
 The tapes started to really take off in 1979, the year that a radical new cassette player -- the Sony Walkman -- was introduced, enabling people to listen to Donna Summer and the Knack's ''My Sharona'' while they were jogging (remember jogging?). The heft of the early Walkman -- slightly smaller and lighter than a brick -- is comical by today's wispy iPod standards, but during the Carter administration it seemed sleek.
 Nowadays, listening to music on cassettes is a dying pastime. None of Billboard's Top 10 albums last week were issued on cassette, though half were released on vinyl, which has been resurging. Last year, only 400,000 music tapes were sold, representing one-tenth of 1 percent of all physical and digital music sales, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. In 1997, the figure was 173 million, and that was when cassettes were already getting a drubbing by CDs. (The iPod wasn't introduced until 2001.)
 ''I would not expect to see a revival of cassettes like we've seen in the LP market,'' Mr. DuBravac said. While vinyl records have always been prized artifacts for their devotees, the plastic cassette tape has little sex appeal.
 Such was the case for the eight-track format as well, which was popular in the late 1960s and '70s. It died relatively quickly with the advent of cassettes because eight-tracks were not widely used for personal recording or mix tapes, Mr. DuBravac said. 
 While the chances of finding cassette players in a dorm room today are slim, they are still available for sale: on Amazon, Sony alone offers 23 tape players, from the Walkman to boomboxes.
 Popping a cassette in the car tape deck is also passe. Only 4 percent of vehicles sold in the United States during the 2007 model year had factory-installed cassette players, according to Ward's Automotive Yearbook. As recently as the 2005 model year, 23 percent of vehicles had them.
 Given that the median age of a car in the United States is nine years old, said Alan K. Binder, the editor of Ward's yearbook, it is most likely that the majority of the 200 million cars and light trucks on America's roads have cassette players (though how many have had the same Bob Seger tape lodged unplayable in them for 11 years is impossible to determine). 
 Cassette tapes' tendency to hiss -- and to melt in the summer and snap in the winter -- turns off audiophiles. But for audio books, the cassette is an oddly elegant medium: you can eject it from your car, carry it home and stick it in a boombox, and it will pick up in the same place, an analog feat beyond the ability of the CD.
 Cassettes accounted for 7 percent of all sales in the $923 million audio-book industry in 2006, the latest year for which data is available, according to the Audio Publishers Association. While many publishers, like Random House and Macmillan, stopped producing books on cassette in the last couple of years, there are holdouts.
 At Blackstone Audio, which produces cassette versions of its roughly 340 annual titles, Josh Stanton, the executive vice president, said there was still demand from libraries and truckers, who buy them at truck stops. But he could forecast only that his company would produce cassettes through 2009.
 Recorded Books, whose authors include Philip Roth and Jodi Picoult, still issues cassettes of all its titles, roughly 700 a year. Retailers like Borders and Barnes & Noble have essentially stopped ordering them, but libraries have been slower to abandon them, said Brian Downing, the company's publisher. 
 The Web sites of Barnes & Noble and Borders, however, indicate that they still offer some cassettes, though publishers say the stores' buyers have expressed little interest in ordering more in the future. 
 At some point, the cassette will go the way of the eight-track, Mr. Downing acknowledged, and his company will publish only in other formats.
 ''I would guess it would be pretty much gone in three years,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hachette's audio department recently held a ''funeral'' for cassette tapes
 an invitation is above. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (78%); MUSIC STORES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (67%); SALES PROJECTIONS (64%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



719 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: WORRIED BANKS SHARPLY REDUCE BUSINESS LOANS

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
Banks struggling to recover from multibillion-dollar losses on real estate are curtailing loans to American businesses, depriving even healthy companies of money for expansion and hiring.
 Two vital forms of credit used by companies -- commercial and industrial loans from banks, and short-term ''commercial paper'' not backed by collateral -- collectively dropped almost 3 percent over the last year, to $3.27 trillion from $3.36 trillion, according to Federal Reserve data. That is the largest annual decline since the credit tightening that began with the last recession, in 2001.
 The scarcity of credit has intensified the strains on the economy by withholding capital from many companies, just as joblessness grows and consumers pull back from spending in the face of high gas prices, plummeting home values and mounting debt.
 ''The second half of the year is shot,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at the trading firm MKM Partners in Greenwich, Conn., who was until recently optimistic that the economy would continue expanding. ''Access to capital and credit is essential to growth. If that access is restrained or blocked, the economic system takes a hit.'' 
 Companies that rely on credit are now delaying and canceling expansion plans as they struggle to secure finance. 
 Drew Greenblatt, president of Marlin Steel Wire Products, figured it would be easy to get a $300,000 bank loan to finance a new robot for his factory in Baltimore. His company, which makes parts for makers of home appliances, is growing and profitable, he said. His expansion would add three new jobs to an economy hungry for work.
 But when Mr. Greenblatt called the local branch of Wachovia -- the same bank that had been aggressively marketing loans to him for years -- he was distressed by the response.
 ''The exact words were, 'We're saying no to almost everybody,' '' Mr. Greenblatt recalled. ''This is why God made banks, for this kind of transaction. This is going to slow down the American economy.''
 Earlier this year, credit extended by banks to companies and consumers was still growing at double-digit rates compared with three months earlier, according to an analysis of Federal Reserve data by Goldman Sachs. By mid-June, bank credit was declining at an annualized pace of more than 6 percent. 
 That is a drop of nearly $150 billion, an amount much larger than the value of the tax rebates the government has sent to households this year in an effort to spur economic activity. 
 Financial industry executives say tighter credit from major banks represents a swing back to a realistic assessment of risk, after years of handing out money with abandon. Those practices produced a mortgage crisis whose losses could reach $1 trillion, by many estimates.
 ''Before, they wouldn't verify income and they were loose on the valuations of collateral,'' said John W. Kiefer, chief executive of First Capital, a private commercial lender. ''Now they're tightening down on the ability to repay. They go off the reservation, and now they come back to basics. It's preservation for many of them at this point. It's survival.''
 But if the newfound caution of American banks is prudent in the long run, the immediate impact is amplifying the troubles with the economy. The Federal Reserve has been lowering interest rates aggressively to make money flow more loosely and to spur economic activity.
 The financial system is not going along: As banks hold on to their dollars, mortgage rates are climbing. So are borrowing costs for corporations.
 Some suggest that the banks, spooked by enormous losses, have replaced a disastrously indiscriminate willingness to hand out money with an equally arbitrary aversion to lend -- even on industries that continue to grow.
 ''There's been a lot of disruption in the credit market, and a lot of traditional lenders have really tightened up,'' said Gregory Goldstein, president of Macquarie Equipment Finance, which leases computer gear and other technology to companies. ''Before, some of the standards they lent on were weak, but we think they have overshot and gone too far on the other end.''
 Such was Mr. Greenblatt's reaction, as he learned that an infusion of credit for his Baltimore factory would not come easily. His company has been enjoying double-digit sales growth. This month, it received the two largest orders in its history, he said.
 ''It was jubilation,'' he said. ''I was doing the Funky Chicken.''
 The initial call to Wachovia left him dismayed. 
 ''I'm stunned,'' Mr. Greenblatt said. ''God is smiling on this factory. We're at such an exciting inflection point, and this is what a bank is supposed to do. There's sand in the gears.'' 
 No loan meant one fewer order for the factory in Chicago that makes the robot Mr. Greenblatt wants to buy, and fewer hours for workers there. It meant less business for the truck driver who would have hauled the robot to Baltimore, and no help-wanted ads for Marlin Steel Wire Products.
 Mr. Greenblatt eventually got oral approval for the loan, though after more than a week. He was still waiting for the money at the end of last week.
 Wachovia, which lost $8.9 billion in the second quarter, declined to discuss the loan. But the bank confirmed that it has been reducing its lending in troubled areas of the economy. 
 ''We've got industries that we consider to be stressed industries, and we're looking at those a lot harder,'' said Carlos Evans, a wholesale banking executive for Wachovia, listing as examples housing construction, building products and distributors for those goods. ''Our loan growth slowing is more indicative of the economy than anything else.''
 Still, Wachovia's commercial and industrial loans grew by 13 percent in June compared with the prior year, Mr. Evans said. 
 ''We're saying yes daily,'' he said.
 But recent signs suggest that tight lending is spilling from housing into other areas of the business world. Companies with solid credit and profitable businesses can generally still get loans, but rates are higher and wait times are longer.
 According to a survey of senior loan officers conducted by the Federal Reserve in April, 55 percent of American banks tightened lending requirements for commercial and industrial loans to large and midsize companies -- up from about 30 percent in the previous survey, in January. About 70 percent of the respondents said they have made such loans more expensive. 
 ''Banks will be much more cautious and keep raising the bar, and that will lead to an outright decline in total commercial and industrial loans,'' predicted Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh. ''Banks clearly have to rebuild their capital base. They're going to look a bit more nervously before they make those loans.''
 Until last summer, banks lent freely, banking experts say, because they sold most of the loans they issued, making them less concerned about whether the customer could handle the payments: If the loan went bad, that was someone else's problem.
 But in the wake of the mortgage crisis, that system has all but shut down. Banks are now stuck with the loans they extend, making them more motivated to scrutinize their customers, particularly younger and smaller businesses.
 ''It's the small business guy who creates most of the jobs,'' said Mr. Kiefer, the First Capital chief executive. ''If they can't borrow to employ people, then we've got a mess on our hands.''
 For the last six months, Saul Epstein has been trying in vain to get a $2 million line of credit for his company, Global Harness Systems. The company, based in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., has a factory in Mexico, where it makes parts for engines. The factory gets paid for its wares weeks after they have shipped, necessitating credit to finance the upfront costs of production -- raw materials, labor and transportation.
 Mr. Epstein figured that getting a loan would be easy. Since he became chief executive last year, Global Harness has gone from break-even to profitable. Sales should reach $20 million this year, up from $17 million last year, he said. But in this new era of caution, banks are focused on the fact that Global Harness lost money in 2005.
 ''They keep saying, the way the times are, we need a longer track record,'' Mr. Epstein said.
 Mr. Epstein, forced to limit his production to what he can finance with his existing cash flow supplemented by his own money, has been tightening credit himself: He has been turning down orders from companies with any whiff of financial troubles, lest his company fail to get paid.
 ''The same way the bank is hesitant to lend to me, you're concerned about taking on a customer that might go into bankruptcy,'' he said.
 George Rosero, president and chief executive of Atlanta Pediatric Therapy, has been trying for more than a month to increase his roughly $500,000 credit line to about $1 million. 
 His company, profitable for the last two years, offers therapy to children with speech and physical impediments, he said. Mr. Rosero aims to expand by adding four sales people. He wants to buy new software to better manage communications with patients and hire a consultant to improve the work environment.
 All of that is on hold. 
 ''Three or four years ago, I could just make a phone call and get an increase,'' Mr. Rosero said. ''Now, they're asking me for a lot more information.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Drew Greenblatt of Marlin Steel Wire Products is having trouble getting a $300,000 loan to buy a robot for his Baltimore factory. ''This is what a bank is supposed to do,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A13) CHART: CREDIT DIFFICULTIES: As banks have tightened lending in response to big mortgage losses, they are issuing fewer loans to companies and are charging more. That could affect companies' ability to hire and expand. (Sources: Federal Reserve Board, via Haver Analytics
 Bloomberg) (pg.A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); HOME PRICES (68%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (64%); TAX RELIEF (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



720 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE PRICE OF BEAUTY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: As Doctors Cater to Looks, Skin Patients Take a Seat and Wait

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Dr. Donald Richey, a dermatologist in Chico, Calif., has two office telephone numbers: calls to the number for patients seeking an appointment for skin conditions like acne and psoriasis often go straight to voice mail, but a full-time staff member fields calls on the dedicated line for cosmetic patients seeking beauty treatments like Botox.
Dr. Richey has two waiting rooms. The medical patients' waiting room is comfortable, but the lounge for cosmetic clients is luxurious, with soft music and flowers.
And he has two kinds of treatment rooms: clinical-looking for skin disease patients, soothing for cosmetic laser patients. 
''Cosmetic patients have a much more private environment than general medical patients because they expect that,'' said Dr. Richey, who estimated that he spent about 40 percent of his time treating cosmetic patients. ''We are a little bit more sensitive to their needs.''
Like airlines that offer first-class and coach sections, dermatology is fast becoming a two-tier business in which higher-paying customers often receive greater pampering. In some dermatologists' offices, freer-spending cosmetic patients are given appointments more quickly than medical patients for whom health insurance pays fixed reimbursement fees.
In other offices, cosmetic patients spend more time with a doctor. And in still others, doctors employ a special receptionist, called a cosmetic concierge, for their beauty patients.
Dr. David M. Pariser, a dermatologist in Norfolk, Va., and the president-elect of the American Academy of Dermatology, said some practices did maintain preferential policies for cosmetic patients.
''The message is that the cosmetic patient is more important than the medical patient, and that's not a good message,'' Dr. Pariser said.
At a time when dermatologists are trying to advance the idea of a national skin cancer epidemic, such a two-tier system is raising concerns that the coddling of beauty patients may divert attention from skin diseases.
A study published last year in The Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology found that dermatologists in 11 American cities and one county offered faster appointments to a person calling about Botox than for someone calling about a changing mole, a possible sign of skin cancer.
And dermatologists nationwide are increasingly hiring nurse practitioners and physicians' assistants, called physician extenders, who primarily see medical patients, according to a study published earlier this year in the same journal.
''What are the physician extenders doing? Medical dermatology,'' Dr. Allan C. Halpern, chief of dermatology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, said in a melanoma lecture at a dermatology conference this year. ''What are the dermatologists doing? Cosmetic dermatology.''
There are no published studies showing that the rise of beauty procedures has caused harm to medical dermatology patients. If patients with skin problems have difficulty getting appointments, it is because over the last 30 years the demand to see skin doctors has far outstripped the number of physicians trained in the specialty, said Dr. Jack S. Resneck Jr., an assistant professor of dermatology at the medical school of the University of California, San Francisco.
Dr. Resneck, who researches professional issues in dermatology, said about 10,500 dermatologists now practiced in the United States, the majority devoting little time to vanity medicine.
Even so, dermatologists perform several million beauty treatments annually, according to estimates by the American Society for Dermatologic Surgery, including more than two million anti-wrinkle injection treatments last year -- an increase of 130 percent over 2005.
Several patients interviewed for this article said that they believed the dermatologists they visited for medical care treated them as potential cosmetic consumers. Dianne Ryan, who works for an airline in Dallas, went to a dermatologist in her insurance network three years ago after her husband pointed out a mole growing on the side of her foot, she said. The doctor dismissed the mole as benign, she said, but recommended she buy his brand of bleaching cream for pigmentation on her face.
A few months later, Ms. Ryan said, she sought a second opinion from another dermatologist, whose diagnosis was melanoma.
''I don't know if dermatology, with all the new technology, is turning away from melanoma or whether it is the glamour and excitement,'' said Ms. Ryan, who was called by this reporter after an exchange in a chat room of the Melanoma Research Foundation. ''If you do an extreme makeover on someone, you are a hero.''
Dermatology is one of the fields -- along with plastic surgery and behavioral sleep medicine -- in which patients are not only willing to pay for quality-of-life treatments that may not be covered by insurance, but also willing to pay much more for such treatments than insurers would pay for a medical procedure that takes a similar amount of time.
Some health insurers reimburse a doctor $60 to $90 for a visit including a full-body skin cancer check that might take 10 minutes; for Botox injections to the forehead, a doctor might receive $500 for 10 minutes, paid on the day of treatment.
According to a presentation for doctors from Allergan, the makers of Botox, a medical dermatology practice might have a net income of $387,198 annually, but a dermatologist who decreased focus on skin diseases while adding cosmetic medical procedures to a practice could net $695,850 annually. The same material advises doctors to ''identify and segment high priority customers.''
People who wish to avoid a cosmetic-driven practice should simply seek appointments with medical dermatologists who focus on skin diseases, said Dr. Alexa B. Kimball, the vice chairwoman of dermatology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
But many dermatologists now offer both medical treatment and beauty procedures, which can confuse patients. And some doctors differentiate between patients -- either within their own practices or by treating cosmetic patients in stand-alone facilities called medical spas.
Lecturers at the annual meeting of the American Academy of Dermatology, held in San Antonio in February, encouraged such segregation.
For example, Dr. Jason R. Lupton, a dermatologist in Del Mar, Calif., advised young physicians to oblige cosmetic patients by giving them appointments within seven days; empty appointment slots could later be filled with general dermatology patients, he said.
In a follow-up telephone interview, Dr. Lupton said that, in his own practice, he accommodated medical and cosmetic patients equally.
In an interview, Dr. Susan H. Weinkle, a dermatologist in Bradenton, Fla., said that she typically spends more time with cosmetic patients because they come in wanting to look better, the kind of amorphous desire that takes longer to satisfy than defined medical problems. One of her staff members always calls a beauty client to follow up, she said.
''It is very rare that you would call an acne patient and say, 'How are you doing with that new prescription?' '' Dr. Weinkle said. ''But with a cosmetic patient, the consultant calls them the next day.''
This dual-class treatment system is not limited to the fanciest of private practices. Even academic institutions like the University of Michigan Health System in Ann Arbor are openly catering to beauty consumers. The Web site of the dermatology department warns a medical patient seeking an appointment to obtain a referral from a primary care physician ''regardless of your type of insurance.''
Meanwhile, the same Web site -- www.med.umich.edu/derm/patient/cdlcappointment.shtml -- promotes the attentiveness of its cosmetic doctors and encourages those seeking vanity procedures to ask about the ''convenient'' valet parking. The site was updated Monday to inform medical patients that the valet service is also available to them.
A new profession -- called aesthetic practice consultant -- has emerged to advise doctors in the care of cosmetic patients.
''Instead of laying on an exam table with a paper liner, you have them lay on a sheet,'' said Deborah Bish, a former nurse who works as a practice consultant in Yardley, Pa. ''You have to class it up for these patients.''
It makes economic sense that dermatologists competing for Botox dollars want to create enticing environments, said Julie Cantor, a lawyer and medical school graduate who teaches a course in medical ethics at the law school of the University of California, Los Angeles. But Ms. Cantor said research was needed to determine whether such environmental changes alter a doctor's behavior with medical patients.
''If you really started treating patients differently based on their ability to pay out of pocket, that's a real problem,'' Ms. Cantor said. ''People who want their wrinkles fixed to go to a wedding should not be treated better than those who have psoriasis.''
Dr. Richey, the Chico, Calif., dermatologist, said that in his practice, the attention to cosmetic patients had no bearing on the treatment of medical patients; he maintains daily walk-in slots for medical patients with urgent skin problems, and many of his patients visit both sides of his practice.
''I don't believe in differentiating,'' Dr. Richey said.
Nonetheless, some medical patients said that they believed other dermatologists brushed off their medical concerns in favor of marketing cosmetic procedures. Melissa Bundy, a health communications manager in Atlanta, said that several years ago she went to a dermatologist who seemed more interested in selling face treatments than in conducting a thorough skin cancer examination. She has since switched doctors.
''Cosmetic things, it's a really great business,'' Ms. Bundy said. ''But it really does seem to be at the expense of people like me getting the medical services that we are looking for.''
The Price of Beauty: This is the second in a series of articles examining the growing popularity and impact of medical treatments designed to improve appearances.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Donald Richey injects Karen Hetherington with Juvederm, a gel that helps reduce wrinkles, at his practice in Chico, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Dr. Donald Richey has separate phone numbers and waiting rooms for his patients with medical concerns and those wanting cosmetic procedures, like Gina Barstow, having a Botox injection. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) CHARTS: FASTER APPOINTMENTS ...: Dermatologists offered appointments about three times faster for Botox than for a potentially cancerous mole, according to a review of about 900 dermatologists' offices in 11 American cities and a county in California in 2005 and 2006. (Source: Dr. Jack S. Resneck Jr., et al, Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 2007)
... FOR HIGHER FEES: Dermatologists receive significantly higher fees for cosmetic procedures than insurance reimbursements for medical ones. (Sources: Inga Ellzey Practice Group and American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (fees)
 Dr. Mark Knautz in Marietta, Ga. and Dr. Kenneth Mark in East Hampton, N.Y. (time spent by doctor)) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIN DISORDERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PSORIASIS (90%); ACNE (90%); DERMATOLOGY (90%); CANCER (89%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (89%); SKIN CANCER (89%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (88%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAL LASERS (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); EPIDEMICS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF DERMATOLOGY (82%); AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR AESTHETIC PLASTIC SURGERY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011



721 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2532 words

HEADLINE: McCain's Lobbyist-Laden Group

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
As Senator John McCain waited to speak at the annual awards dinner of the International Republican Institute, a democracy-building group he has led for 15 years, lobbyists and business executives dominated the stage at a Washington hotel ballroom.
 First up that night in September 2006 was the institute's vice chairman, Peter T. Madigan, a McCain campaign fund-raiser and lobbyist whose clients span the globe, from Dubai to Colombia. He thanked Timothy P. McKone, an AT&T lobbyist and McCain fund-raiser, for helping with the dinner arrangements and then introduced the chairman of AT&T, Edward E. Whitacre Jr., whose company had donated $200,000 for the event.
 AT&T at the time was seeking political support for an $80 billion merger with BellSouth -- another Madigan client -- and Mr. Whitacre lavished praise on Mr. McCain, a senior member of the Senate Commerce Committee. When Mr. McCain finally took the podium, he expressed ''profound thanks'' to AT&T before presenting the institute's Freedom Award to the president of Liberia, a lobbying client of Charlie Black, an institute donor and McCain campaign adviser. 
 The parade of lobbyists and fund-raisers at the dinner is emblematic of Mr. McCain's tenure at the institute, one of a pair of nonprofit groups -- taxpayer-financed and each allied with one of the two major political parties -- that were created during the Reagan era to promote democracy in closed societies. 
 Over the years, Mr. McCain has nurtured a reputation for bucking the Republican establishment and criticizing the influence of special interests in politics. But an examination of his leadership of the Republican institute -- one of the least-chronicled aspects of his political life -- reveals an organization in many ways at odds with the political outsider image that has become a touchstone of the McCain campaign for president. 
 Certainly the institute's mission is in keeping with Mr. McCain's full-throated support for exporting American democratic values. Yet the institute is also something of a revolving door for lobbyists and out-of-power Republicans that offers big donors a way of helping both the party and the institute's chairman, who is the only sitting member of Congress -- and now candidate for president -- ever to head one of the democracy groups. 
 Operating without the sort of limits placed on campaign fund-raising, the institute under Mr. McCain has solicited millions of dollars for its operations from some 560 defense contractors, lobbying firms, oil companies and other corporations, many with issues before Senate committees Mr. McCain was on. 
 Recently, he has drawn criticism for involving lobbyists in his presidential campaign; under Mr. McCain, 14 of them have served on the institute's board, some representing governments or organizations in countries where the group was carrying out programs.
 These are sensitive issues for Mr. McCain, who as a champion of campaign finance and lobbying reforms has made a point of eschewing unlimited ''soft money'' contributions to his political committees. During his Senate investigation of the lobbyist Jack Abramoff, Mr. McCain highlighted the risks of business interests' use of donations to nonprofit organizations as another way to gain access to a member of Congress.
 Beyond rubbing shoulders with contributors, Mr. McCain could use the chairman's perch to score points with important Republican figures -- he presented Freedom Awards to President Bush, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and, in 2003, the incoming Senate majority leader, Bill Frist. At least seven board members have been involved in his presidential campaign, along with the institute's president, Lorne W. Craner, a former Senate aide whose father was in the same Hanoi prison as Mr. McCain.
 Mr. McCain declined to be interviewed for this article. Brian Rogers, a campaign spokesman, said the senator ''has never requested nor offered to take a position on legislation in exchange for, or because of, contributions to I.R.I.'' He added that Mr. McCain was ''proud of I.R.I.'s work in countries from Peru to Serbia to Mongolia.''
 ''In traveling overseas,'' Mr. Rogers said, ''Senator McCain has repeatedly been complimented on I.R.I.'s work by prime ministers and presidents, U.S. ambassadors and ordinary citizens. Many have told him that freedom in their country would not have been possible without I.R.I.'s work.''
 The institute's work in some of those countries resonates with important ethnic voting blocs at home. 
 When Mr. McCain's Democratic rival for president, Senator Barack Obama, traveled to Miami in May to address Cuban-Americans, Republicans circulated a memorandum to reporters that quoted an anti-Castro group criticizing Mr. Obama's willingness to talk to Cuba's communist leaders. Not mentioned was that the group, the Cuban Democratic Directorate, was financed for years by the International Republican Institute -- it got more than $8 million during Mr. McCain's tenure. Though the directorate does not endorse candidates, its leaders are effusive in praising Mr. McCain.
 ''I want to stress that we are very thankful to Senator McCain for everything he has done through I.R.I. to support our cause,'' said Janisset Rivero, joint national secretary of the directorate. 
 A Leadership Shift
 Shaken by the loss of the White House in 1992, Republicans scrambled to reinvigorate their party by giving higher profiles to some of its promising prospects. Mr. McCain, just re-elected by a convincing margin, was given two new positions: head of fund-raising and recruiting for the Senate Republicans and chairman of the International Republican Institute.
 Enlisting Mr. McCain, with his no-nonsense image, was a way to impose some much-needed discipline at the institute. Party leaders had been hearing disturbing tales of mismanagement and questionable expenditures, such as Concorde flights for staff members and bottles of wine with a private I.R.I. label.
 Mr. McCain quickly put his stamp on the organization after taking over in January 1993. Within months, the board fired the institute's president, Jack W. Buechner, a former Republican congressman from Missouri, and Mr. McCain announced plans to shift much of the institute's focus from Latin America to the former Soviet bloc. 
 In an interview, Mr. Buechner characterized his dismissal as ''less than gracious,'' saying Mr. McCain did not call beforehand to discuss it. He attributed his ouster, in part, to a reluctance to give jobs and appointments to Republicans left adrift by the transition to a Democratic administration.
 ''The theory before I came aboard at the institute was you needed to reward the party faithful,'' Mr. Buechner said. ''The attitude was that I.R.I. was supposed to be a repository for unemployed Bushies.''
 Mr. Buechner's assertions reflected criticism that has dogged the institute and its Democratic counterpart since their creation. While Mr. McCain was an early supporter, other members of Congress believed the groups were essentially partisan pork barrels. Former Senator Hank Brown, a Colorado Republican who tried several times to kill federal financing for the institutes, still harbors doubts about them. 
 ''I know John's interest in it was very sincere, and he put a lot of time into promoting democracy himself,'' Mr. Brown said. ''But the reality is that politicians and well-heeled business leaders taking free trips abroad doesn't bring democracy.''
 An Expanding Role
 Today, with a budget of about $78 million and 400 employees working in 70 countries, the Republican institute has grown in size and stature. Its recent work has included organizing debates for candidates in Iraq, conducting a rare public opinion poll in Cuba and training political parties in Belarus. 
 Yet while the institute says its activities are nonpartisan and peaceful, left-leaning groups have long accused it of improper meddling in pursuit of a neoconservative agenda. A former American ambassador to Haiti has asserted that institute operatives undermined reconciliation efforts among Haitian political rivals, contributing to a coup in 2004. Two years earlier, the institute was criticized after its president at the time, George A. Folsom, praised a coup attempt against Venezuela's leftist president, Hugo Chavez.
 Major staffing decisions and appointments are a board matter; as chairman, Mr. McCain has played a significant, often decisive, role. His early choices show an attempt to balance the demands of politics, professionalism and personal loyalty. Bucking party officials, Mr. McCain successfully pushed for R. Bruce McColm, a human rights expert who was not an active Republican, to replace Mr. Buechner. John Dowd, the senator's personal lawyer in the Keating Five scandal during the savings-and-loan crisis, became the institute's general counsel, and Mr. Craner became vice president.
 In his autobiography, Mr. McCain wrote of his deep debt to Mr. Craner's father, Lt. Col. Robert R. Craner, for his help in surviving imprisonment in North Vietnam, and when he was elected to the Senate in 1986, Mr. McCain hired the younger Mr. Craner as his legislative assistant. Before joining the institute, Mr. Craner also worked at the State Department and the National Security Council.
 While Mr. McColm's arrival seemed a departure from past partisan practices, he was gone within two years. (He did not respond to messages seeking comment for this article.) Former institute directors said Mr. McCain simply sent them a fax asking for approval to elevate Mr. Craner to the top job, which he has held since, except for three years at the Bush State Department.
 Mr. McCain was also becoming increasingly involved in the institute's finances. Arguing that the organization should wean itself from taxpayer dollars -- its prime source of financing -- he set about greatly expanding fund-raising from the private sector. That initiative was in line with the institute's goal of bringing the business community into efforts to spread democracy -- and an environment conducive to capitalism -- around the world. 
 Typical of his efforts was a May 1995 letter to an executive at Philip Morris asking for help in underwriting the institute's Freedom Awards. The company agreed to give $25,000. 
 Reaping New Ties
 By the time Mr. McCain began his unsuccessful run for president in 2000, his time spent tending to the institute was yielding political dividends.
 Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the former ambassador to the United Nations and an institute board member, endorsed him, saying that working ''under his leadership in the I.R.I.'' had convinced her of his foreign policy credentials. A number of major institute donors were also campaign contributors, and some institute directors volunteered as fund-raisers.
 That synergy reflects the ways in which the boundaries between the institute and Mr. McCain's political activities and foreign policies have blurred over the years. If anything, the overlaps seem more pronounced in his latest quest for the presidency, and they involve institute board members associated with his campaign and donors with interests before the Senate. Mr. Madigan, the institute's vice chairman and a McCain fund-raiser, represented the government of El Salvador in 2004, when the institute was monitoring presidential elections there. Mr. Madigan's firm has represented six foreign governments and sometimes lobbied Mr. McCain's Senate office.
 Among those clients is the government of Colombia, which has paid the firm at least $590,000 over the last 18 months. One issue Mr. Madigan has been pushing on behalf of the Colombians is a pending free trade agreement with the United States. Several weeks ago, Mr. McCain traveled to Colombia and, in keeping with his views on trade, spoke about the need for the accord. 
 Another board member is the McCain campaign's chief foreign policy adviser, Randy Scheunemann. Until March, he was registered as a lobbyist for several foreign governments, and he represented the government of Georgia last January when the institute sent election monitors there. Since joining the institute in 2004, Mr. Scheunemann has spoken with Mr. McCain or his Senate aides at least 42 times on behalf of his foreign lobbying clients, Justice Department records show. 
 Mr. Madigan did not respond to messages seeking comment. Mr. Scheunemann's lobbying business, Orion Strategies, referred questions to the McCain campaign, which declined to make Mr. Scheunemann available.
 In its responses to written questions, the campaign said that the presence of lobbyists on the institute's board did not pose a conflict, and that Mr. Madigan and Mr. Scheunemann ''recused themselves from I.R.I. decisions regarding the countries they represented.'' The campaign also said donations to the institute had never been linked to Mr. McCain's Senate activities. 
 But at least one donor apparently saw it differently -- Philip Morris stopped giving to the institute after Mr. McCain began urging stronger tobacco regulation -- and many had an interest in issues before Congress. For example, CTIA -- the Wireless Association, a national lobbying group representing the cellphone industry, has been a consistent donor to the institute and often had an interest in legislation Mr. McCain sponsored or shaped.
 In 2003, when Mr. McCain's Commerce Committee was considering legislation to regulate e-mail spam, wireless companies were worried that it could cause problems if applied to spam text messages received on cellphones. CTIA sent an update to its members noting that Mr. McCain had ''raised the wireless-specific issues and pledged to work to resolve them,'' and he eventually co-sponsored an amendment instructing regulators to study how best to apply the new rules to cellular devices.
 By the time AT&T financed the 2006 institute awards dinner, Mr. McCain was no longer the committee's chairman, but the firm's merger with BellSouth, pending before the Federal Communications Commission, was of major interest in Congress, which has significant sway over the F.C.C. Mr. McCain rarely opposed telecommunications mergers, but he had raised questions about a previous AT&T merger, with MediaOne, during the 2000 presidential campaign and pledged to hold hearings on telecom industry consolidation. In 2006, however, Mr. McCain remained silent on the AT&T-BellSouth deal, which was eventually approved by the F.C.C.
 Mr. Rogers, the campaign spokesman, said that Mr. McCain's silence was in keeping with his practice of not commenting on mergers, and that his remarks about the earlier AT&T proposal were intended as a broad criticism of telecom legislation and not that merger. On the subject of CTIA, as Mr. Rogers pointed out, the group has opposed Mr. McCain on some legislation, and the senator's amendment to the spam bill reflected a compromise after he had objected to a more sweeping exemption sought by CTIA.
 ''Any suggestion that CTIA's donations to I.R.I. were somehow offered (and accepted) in exchange for Senator McCain's work on the Senate Commerce Committee is categorically false and baseless,'' Mr. Rogers said.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about Senator John McCain's leadership of the International Republican Institute referred incorrectly to the significance of his role. Robert J. Lagomarsino headed the group from 1986 to 1992 while representing California in the House; Mr. McCain is not the only sitting member of Congress to have led the institute.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HONORS FROM THE CHAIRMAN: Senator John McCain presenting Freedom Awards from the International Republican Institute to Vice President Dick Cheney in 2001
Condoleezza Rice, now the secretary of state, in 2004
 and President Bush in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: MCCAIN'S INSTITUTE: Many of the directors of the International Republican Institute are lobbyists. All but a handful have given money to Mr. McCain, and most gave to no other presidential candidate. Seven directors and the president have roles in Mr. McCain's campaign. (Source: Center for Responsive Politics) (pg.A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); MERGERS (54%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (93%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (88%); LIBERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



722 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: A Fresh Start With Pakistan

 BODY:
Pakistan's new civilian prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, is in Washington this week for what we are sure will be a difficult set of meetings. 
 Mr. Gilani's constituents deeply resent the United States for propping up and enabling their former dictator, Pervez Musharraf. President Bush, who directed that enabling, must have his own serious doubts about Mr. Gilani's willingness to fight Taliban and Qaeda forces that are using Pakistan as a safe haven. 
 That is why Mr. Bush needs to use this visit to recast relations -- making clear that he is committed to strengthening both Pakistan's democracy and its ability to fight extremism. That will require a lot more economic assistance and more carefully monitored military aid. 
 For their part, Pakistan's civilian leaders must provide more honest and effective governance. They must tell their voters that extremism also threatens Pakistan -- and that this is not just America's fight. 
 The government also needs to find new ways of asserting its authority in the tribal areas, by providing better social services, promoting economic development and working more closely with tribal leaders. And it must send more elite troops trained in counterinsurgency to take on Al Qaeda and the Taliban. 
 Both sides would be better able to achieve these goals if Congress approved legislation introduced this month by Senator Joseph Biden and Senator Richard Lugar that provides for substantial long-term increases in economic assistance to Pakistan and tighter monitoring of American military assistance. The White House needs to give this bipartisan initiative its strong support. 
 The imbalance it seeks to remedy between lavish but misdirected military aid and miserly economic assistance was highlighted in the recent Congressional skirmish over who would pay for modernizing Pakistan's jet fighters. 
 The modernized F-16 is a high-technology plane, mainly intended to deter India, and is poorly suited to counterinsurgency operations along the Afghan border. The original plan was for Pakistan to pay the $230 million a year. But now the White House and Mr. Gilani want Congress to pick up the tab. 
 Mr. Gilani is eager to keep the Pakistani military happy -- and the new army commander, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, is a professional who has supported the transition to civilian government. If Washington pays, it would also, in theory, free up those millions for badly needed social spending. 
 If spent wisely, that money could go far. A program to control and prevent hepatitis B infections would cost roughly $100 million. A public-health laboratory network could be set up for $30 million. 
 Under present aid formulas, Washington can pay for the F-16 upgrades only by shifting funds from equipment better suited for fighting the Taliban. Pakistan needs more such equipment -- not less -- including Cobra helicopters and night-vision goggles. 
 Pakistan should not be modernizing the F-16's at all, but that deal was made long ago. Congress should hold its nose and approve this year's F-16 money, plus additional emergency funds for the helicopters and goggles. Then it should quickly enact the Biden-Lugar legislation.
 That way, Pakistan will have reliable funding for future social programs and be able to focus American military aid on counterterrorism. It is an imperfect solution but could be the start of a better relationship -- one that promotes democracy and the fight against Al Qaeda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (74%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (69%); APPROVALS (67%); LEGISLATION (65%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (65%); HEPATITIS (63%); HEPATITIS B (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (59%); JOE BIDEN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



723 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Gas Price Follies

 BODY:
Add high energy prices to a sagging economy in an election year and politicians will inevitably come up with bad policies, like converting the corn crop into ethanol or John McCain's proposal to suspend the federal gas tax -- neither will provide real relief at the pump while both are guaranteed to create other problems. 
 The good news is that Congress failed last week to cut a deal on two more bad ideas: Republicans' misguided push for offshore drilling and Democrats' misbegotten plan to curb speculation in oil futures.
 Republicans should know that allowing more offshore drilling might marginally trim oil prices -- in about a decade -- while sacrificing important environmental protections. Democrats should know that financial speculation is not what's driving oil prices, and that curbing futures trading could hamper the ability of companies like airlines and oil refineries to manage their risks by locking in the price of oil. Putting them together is compounding one bad idea with another.
 Of course, there is plenty of evidence that markets can be manipulated by fraudulent speculation -- recall the Enron mess. Yet all evidence suggests that speculation has little to do with the rising price of crude. From rice to iron, commodity prices are all rising, even without much financial speculation, due to a variety of factors including a weak dollar and growing demand from China and India. 
 A report by government agencies -- including the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury and Energy Departments -- found that speculative trades in oil contracts had little to no effect on the rise in prices over the last five years. 
 Oil futures are financial contracts for future delivery of oil. Their price has been responding to the same factors: growing world demand in the face of stagnant supply and the expectation that this dynamic will continue. 
 Like some of the other ''cures,'' offering to solve Americans' energy woes by drilling or slapping Wall Street around merely feeds the myth that there is a quick and easy solution out there. There isn't. Expensive oil is likely here to stay. Americans must burn less oil and find alternative sources of energy that do far less damage to the environment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); FUTURES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); FUEL TAX (58%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



724 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Obama Returns to Economy as McCain Assails Foreign Tour

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and SUSAN SAULNY; Brian Knowlton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama signaled on Sunday that he would return his focus to the economy after a whirlwind foreign tour, but Senator John McCain's eyes remained very much fixed on national security, as he repeatedly attacked his rival.
Mr. McCain criticized Mr. Obama for proposing to withdraw American forces from Iraq within 16 months and for having opposed the 30,000-troop buildup known as the surge. Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, once again accused Mr. Obama, his Democratic counterpart, of putting his electoral prospects ahead of the right military policy in Iraq. Mr. Obama's preferred course, Mr. McCain said, would have led to genocide and an emboldened Iran. 
''He doesn't understand what's at stake here,'' Mr. McCain said in a taped interview on the ABC News program ''This Week'' broadcast Sunday. ''And he chose to take a political path that would have helped him.''
Mr. McCain attacked his opponent's burnished foreign policy credentials after Mr. Obama completed a weeklong trip to the Middle East and Europe.
Mr. McCain also touched on domestic policy, saying he would not rule out tax increases in discussing Social Security reform with Democrats. He said he favored offering private investment accounts to younger Americans, though it was not clear that investment accounts alone could address the financial shortfall that the retirement system could face in coming decades.
Mr. McCain also spoke in favor of a state ballot measure that would end race- and sex-based affirmative action in his home state of Arizona.
In 1998, Mr. McCain dismissed a similar measure. Mr. Obama said on Sunday that he supported affirmative action ''when properly structured'' to take into account not only race but also economic hardship.
Mr. Obama, speaking on Sunday in Chicago at the Unity '08 Convention, a gathering of minority journalists, said he was disappointed in Mr. McCain's position on the affirmative action measure. Mr. Obama mixed foreign policy analysis with his views on immigration and whether the United States should offer reparations and apologize for slavery and its treatment of American Indians.
''There's no doubt that when it comes to our treatment of Native Americans as well as other persons of color in this country,'' Mr. Obama said, ''we've got some very sad and difficult things to account for.''
''The best reparations we can provide,'' he said, ''are good schools in the inner city and jobs for people who are unemployed.''
On Sunday evening Mr. Obama was at the University of Chicago Medical Center because of a sore hip that a spokesman, Bill Burton, described as a nagging basketball injury.
Mr. McCain's annoyance with the international coverage of Mr. Obama mounted steadily last week. He accused the news media of showing favoritism toward Mr. Obama. Over the last two days, his campaign has strongly implied that Mr. Obama declined to meet with wounded American troops at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany after he learned that he could not bring television cameras along.
''I know of no Pentagon regulation that would have prevented him from going there, without the media and the press and all of the associated people,'' Mr. McCain said in the ABC interview.
Mr. Obama, who visited wounded troops in Iraq without notifying the news media, and has visited injured soldiers in the United States, said he was not traveling with an official delegation and did not want to politicize the visit.
Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, who accompanied Mr. Obama to Iraq, said on CBS's ''Face the Nation'' that Mr. McCain was ''treading on some very thin ground when he impugns motives, and when we start to get into 'you're less patriotic than me, I'm more patriotic.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama, after a weeklong foreign trip, visited the University of Chicago Medical Center on Sunday because of a sore hip that a spokesman said was a nagging basketball injury. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (86%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); IMMIGRATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); BALLOTS (70%); GENOCIDE (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); SPORTS INJURIES (61%); BASKETBALL (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%) ILLINOIS, USA (86%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011



725 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Russian Proposal Calls for Broader Security Pact

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
Russia, which under Vladimir V. Putin has shown increasing hostility toward NATO and other post-World War II security organizations in Europe, has put together a set of proposals that essentially sidelines these groups in favor of a broader one. 
 The proposals, to be presented to NATO on Monday in Brussels, clearly have no chance of being accepted by the United States and its allies in Europe. But they reflect the Kremlin's latest efforts to reassert itself on the world stage and to challenge longstanding diplomatic practices.
 The Kremlin wants in particular to weaken the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which Russia is a member of, and NATO, which it is not. The Russian proposal would establish a broad security pact open to other countries, including possibly China and India.
 Dmitri Rogozin, Russia's envoy to NATO, acknowledged that the alliance would not quickly embrace the proposals, but he suggested that the Kremlin was hoping to begin a dialogue.
 ''We do not expect immediate reaction on the part of our Western partners, or booing, or on the contrary, applause,'' Mr. Rogozin wrote in reply to questions about his proposals. ''We are looking forward to teamwork and practical search of constructive approaches.''
 Mr. Putin sent Mr. Rogozin, who has a reputation as a fierce Russian nationalist, to the alliance this year in what was widely seen as an attempt to install a provocative advocate for Russia's interests in Brussels. Mr. Putin is now Russia's prime minister, and his protege, Dmitri A. Medvedev, is president.
 NATO will comment on Mr. Rogozin's proposals once it has received more details, James Appathurai, a spokesman for the alliance, said Sunday.
 The Kremlin has already promoted changes in the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Among the organization's roles, O.S.C.E. monitors elections in nations emerging from the former Soviet Union. Over the last year, the Kremlin has criticized its election observer teams as biased.
 The new Russian proposals indicate that now that Russia's economy has revived after the chaos of the 1990s, the country is seeking new ways to expand its influence.
 ''Moscow believes that the current security architecture in Europe is a remnant of the cold war bloc ideology,'' said Andrew Monaghan, a Russia expert at the NATO Defense College in Rome. ''Russia sees itself as the largest state straddling Europe and Asia which has the strength and capacity to adopt a global purview. This includes protecting and projecting its national interests and actively proposing solutions to international problems.''
 At the heart of the proposals, Mr. Rogozin said, is a new European security treaty that would be a legally binding document based on the United Nations Charter.
 He said Russia would also convene an international forum that would include the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, NATO, the European Union, the Russian-led Commonwealth of Independent States and the Russian-led Collective Security Treaty Organization, which includes Central Asian countries.
 The main reason for a new security pact is that Europe can no longer cope with the plethora of problems it faces, according to one of the proposals. ''Modern European security is overwhelmed with problems, ranging from NATO enlargement to illegal migration, drug trafficking, organized crime and terrorism,'' it says. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (79%); ELECTIONS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); ELECTION MONITORING (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



726 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: A Hug for Obama, A Handshake for McCain

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama's audience inside the Capitol this week will number about 200, not the 200,000 who gathered last week in Berlin. And with their own careers tied to his on Election Day, the House Democrats gathered to listen to him will bring more critical scrutiny.
 Yet all signs point to a reception for Mr. Obama at the closed-door session that will be warm, if not as effusive as the cheery crowd in front of the Victory Column in Germany. In one of the notable turnabouts of the 2008 campaign, Democratic politicians and voters alike display more fervor for Mr. Obama than Republicans do for Senator John McCain. 
 Within Republican cloakrooms on Capitol Hill, the coolness toward Mr. McCain is mutual; while colleagues question his campaign's performance and departures from party orthodoxy, he keeps a tarnished Republican establishment at arm's length. 
 Democrats express remarkably few reservations about Mr. Obama -- despite his tough nomination fight with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and the risks associated with his race, his liberal policy stances, even his nontraditional name.
 ''He's preaching to the choir,'' said Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, once a staunch Clinton backer, ''and we're ready to sing.''
 Tempering Passion
 In part, Democratic contentment flows up from the grass roots. In a New York Times/CBS News poll this month, Mr. Obama enjoyed a three-to-one edge in the proportion of voters calling themselves enthusiastic about their party's presumptive nominee.
 But Democratic elected officials have spent much of the last generation trying to contain the exuberance of their liberal base. With pragmatism born of repeated defeat, they have sought to elevate the sorts of presidential candidates who can win, notably white Southern moderates like Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton.
 Some Southern Democrats, perennially challenged to maintain white support, have declined to endorse Mr. Obama, of Illinois. A few others grumble about lack of consultation with his Chicago-based campaign, and his lingering difficulty in fashioning economic arguments that can garner the working-class support needed to win Midwestern battlegrounds.
 More striking, however, is how rare those complaints have been about Mr. Obama. His campaign has largely calmed Democratic political pros with its organizational competence, fund-raising prowess and measured stump performances, including those overseas last week. 
 Congressional colleagues welcomed his international star turn as a source of reassurance, for Americans generally and for particular constituencies like Jewish voters with misgivings about Mr. Obama. ''The antidote for him in the Jewish community will be personal interaction,'' Ms. Wasserman Schultz said, but she called his stop in Israel ''a big step forward.''
 Democrats have grown so buoyant -- or overconfident, in Republicans' analysis -- that part of Mr. Obama's message to the House Democratic Caucus will concern governance in 2009. The candidate will discuss ''what we have to do after November comes,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, the caucus chairman, who consulted with the campaign over the weekend.
 Battling Pessimism
 Republican lawmakers remain more focused on short-term survival. Mr. McCain's colleagues on Capitol Hill, disaffected for years by his maverick stances on tax cuts, spending, campaign finance and immigration, have groused about his thin campaign organization and unfocused message.
 Team McCain has lately responded with steps to remedy those flaws and improve coordination with fellow Republicans. ''Let's see what he does in August, how does that message get refined,'' said Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, who is retiring this year.
 But some Washington veterans expect only so much clarity from their freewheeling standard-bearer, and see bigger challenges in any case.
 ''You can't have tight, tight message control with John McCain,'' said former Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, now a lobbyist. ''The problem for Republicans is they're pessimistic, and when you're pessimistic you don't work as hard, you don't turn out the vote.''
 Privately, Republican members of Congress recognize the incongruity of Mr. McCain's ascendance. The very factors that strain their own relationship with him may help both buck the headwinds facing the party at the close of the Bush presidency.
 Indeed, they shrug off with a smile Mr. McCain's efforts to distance himself from Congressional Republicans as well as the unpopular White House incumbent. While House Republican leaders slammed the just-passed housing bill as a big-government bailout, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, backed it as needed support for the mortgage market.
 ''The best thing he can do for us is to run well,'' said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''If he's got a way to do it that involves triangulation, fair enough.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); CAUCUSES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%)

COMPANY: SENATOR ENTERTAINMENT AG (91%)

TICKER: SMN1 (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008



727 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Climate Experts Tussle Over Details. Public Gets Whiplash.

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
When science is testing new ideas, the result is often a two-papers-forward-one-paper-back intellectual tussle among competing research teams. 
 When the work touches on issues that worry the public, affect the economy or polarize politics, the news media and advocates of all stripes dive in. Under nonstop scrutiny, conflicting findings can make news coverage veer from one extreme to another, resulting in a kind of journalistic whiplash for the public. 
 This has been true for decades in health coverage. But lately the phenomenon has been glaringly apparent on the global warming beat. 
 Discordant findings have come in quick succession. How fast is Greenland shedding ice? Did human-caused warming wipe out frogs in the American tropics? Has warming strengthened hurricanes? Have the oceans stopped warming? These questions endure even as the basic theory of a rising human influence on climate has steadily solidified: accumulating greenhouse gases will warm the world, erode ice sheets, raise seas and have big impacts on biology and human affairs. 
 Scientists see persistent disputes as the normal stuttering journey toward improved understanding of how the world works. But many fear that the herky-jerky trajectory is distracting the public from the undisputed basics and blocking change. ''One of the things that troubles me most is that the rapid-fire publication of unsettled results in highly visible venues creates the impression that the scientific community has no idea what's going on,'' said W. Tad Pfeffer, an expert on Greenland's ice sheets at the University of Colorado. 
 ''Each new paper negates or repudiates something emphatically asserted in a previous paper,'' Dr. Pfeffer said. ''The public is obviously picking up on this not as an evolution of objective scientific understanding but as a proliferation of contradictory opinions.''
 Several experts on the media and risk said that one result could be public disengagement with the climate issue just as experts are saying ever more forcefully that sustained attention and action are needed to limit the worst risks. Recent polls in the United States and Britain show that the public remains substantially divided and confused over what is happening and what to do. Some environmentalists have blamed energy-dependent industries and the news media for stalemates on climate policy, arguing that they perpetuate a false sense of uncertainty about the basic problem. 
 But scientists themselves sometimes fail to carefully discriminate between what is well understood and what remains uncertain, said Kimberly Thompson, an associate professor of risk analysis and decision science at Harvard. 
 And, Dr. Thompson said, the flow of scientific findings from laboratory (or glacier) to journal to news report is fraught with ''reinforcing loops'' that can amplify small distortions. 
 For example, she said, after scientists learn that accurate, but nuanced, statements are often left out of news accounts, they may pre-emptively oversimplify their description of some complex finding. Better, but more difficult, Dr. Thompson said, would be to work with the reporter to characterize the weight of evidence behind the new advance and seek to place it in context. 
 To support clarity, Stephen H. Schneider, a climatologist at Stanford, helped create a glossary defining what is meant by phrases like ''very likely'' (greater than 90 percent confidence) in the reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. In a news media universe where specialized reporting is declining and a Web mash-up of instant opinion and information is emerging, Dr. Schneider said, it is ever more important for scientists to take responsibility for communicating in ways that stick, while sticking with the facts. 
 Dr. Thompson said climate science presented particularly tough challenges, given the long time lag before the worst effects kick in and the persistent uncertainty about the likelihood of worst-case outcomes. She said the news media sometimes overplayed the uncertainty by balancing opposing views in a story without characterizing the overall level of confidence in either side. And sometimes they do the opposite, sacrificing accuracy for impact, she said.
 ''Words that we as scientists use to express uncertainty routinely get dropped out to make stories have more punch and be stronger,'' she said, adding that those words are important to include because ''they convey meaning to readers not only in the story at hand, but more generally about science being less precise than is typically conveyed.''
 Public-relations offices at leading scientific journals and hubs for research also could do more to avoid overplaying incremental research results, she and several other experts said.
 Donald Kennedy, a Stanford professor emeritus who was the editor in chief of the journal Science from 2000 until earlier this year, said the flow of papers on climate, glaciology and relevant ocean sciences greatly increased in his tenure. ''I do think we grew more sensitive to the need for critical review of papers likely to initiate or continue the kind of controversy that results in a whiplash effect,'' Dr. Kennedy said. 
 Roger A. Pielke Jr., a political scientist at the University of Colorado, warned that the focus by the public and media on the stream of evolving climate science could distract from the need for policies now that made sense regardless of uncertainties. ''The example of reducing losses to hurricanes is a good one,'' Dr. Pielke said, ''where the actions that make the most sense are really independent of the debate over greenhouse gases and hurricane behavior.''
 ''The same might be said for many health studies on fat, coffee, carbs,'' he added. ''The lesson from experts is to eat a balanced diet and get plenty of exercise,'' which stays the same despite the various disputes. 
 He said his advice for scientists who wanted to ''dampen the whiplash effect'' was to ''discuss the 'So what?' implications of the work explicitly, rather than leaving that step to advocates or politicians, or reporters.''
 Increasingly, scientists are taking their message straight to the public. Realclimate.org, Climatepolicy.org and Climateethics.org are among Web sites where issues are explored in an ongoing way, rather than in response to news releases and scientific papers. Other new Web ventures, like ClimateCentral.org at Princeton and the Yale Forum on Climate Change and the Media, focus on improving media coverage. 
 Robert J. Brulle , a sociologist at Drexel University, said it was hard to be optimistic about such efforts. ''In this public sphere,'' he said, ''it is assumed that the better argument, backed up with solid scientific evidence, will prevail.'' He said many studies had shown that people tended to sift sources of information to reinforce existing views.
 Morris Ward, the editor of the Yale effort (yaleclimatemediaforum.org), says that it will be up to the public to choose to be better informed on momentous issues that do not fit the normal template for news or clash with their ingrained worldviews. ''At some point,'' he said, ''the public at large has to step up to the plate in terms of scientific and policy literacy, in terms of commitment to education and strong and effective political leadership, and in terms of their own general self-improvement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DATA DELUGE: From left, Greenland ice, lemur leaf frog, hurricanes tracks and a plot of buoys used in sea temperature studies. Discordant findings aside, the theory of rising human influence on climate endures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAA)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAPPELER/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); WEATHER (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



728 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; YAKUMO JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers in Rural Japan: Low Supply, Iffy Demand

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: YAKUMO, Japan 

 BODY:
There was no inherent reason that this northern Japanese town, population 19,743, had never had a lawyer until now. It had its share of people with debts, disputes over property, wrangling over inheritances -- enough disharmony, certainly, to keep at least one lawyer busy.
 But Japan, in contrast to the United States, has long suffered from a shortage of lawyers, especially in the countryside. If it was not unusual for towns with five times Yakumo's population to have no lawyer, how could Yakumo hope to secure one just for itself? 
 And yet, thanks to a national campaign to raise the number of lawyers, and to dispatch them to lawyerless corners of Japan, Yakumo welcomed its first one in April. The Yakumo Legal Office opened shop, behind gray blinds and under blue awnings, in the square facing the train station.
 Its prominent location aside, the office was perhaps lost amid the restaurants, izakaya pubs, drugstores and other small businesses that form the landscape surrounding train stations in small Japanese towns. Even the longtime owner of a sushi restaurant a stone's throw away had somehow failed to notice his exotic new neighbor. ''A lawyer?'' he asked incredulously.
 On a recent morning, the lawyer, Katsumune Hirai, arrived on the 10:29 train from Hakodate, the nearest city. He walked half a minute from the station and slipped into the office through a side door.
 Yakumo is part of an even larger legal district of some 50,000 people without a lawyer, he said. And Mr. Hirai, who lives in Hakodate but is from Tokyo, was still really getting to know this town. He had yet to visit the town hall, the seat of power in any Japanese town, and present his business cards there. Introductions, he said, were not his strong suit.
 He was perplexed that, so far, few had come to him for advice on handling debts, the biggest source of work for lawyers right now. ''Tokyo's economy is doing well these days,'' said Mr. Hirai, a baby-faced 33-year-old who has been practicing law for four years. ''But the rest of Japan still hasn't recovered. The economy's very weak in the countryside, so we see a great number of consultations nationwide about debts, especially from people with highly urgent matters.''
 Many clients with land disputes had come to him, referred by real estate agents unable to resolve the problems themselves. In the past, they would have gone to look for a lawyer in Hakodate, no doubt.
 ''Or, I think, many just resigned themselves to their fate,'' he said.
 That is what Mr. Hirai had learned at the Japan Federation of Bar Association, where he participated in efforts to send lawyers to the hinterlands.
 In Japan, other legal professionals, including notaries and tax accountants, often perform the duties that fall to lawyers in the United States. Still, even including those professions, Japan has only about one-third of the lawyers found in the United States per capita, according to the federation.
 Beyond that, half of Japan's lawyers are concentrated in Tokyo, leaving only one lawyer for every 30,000 Japanese outside the capital, according to the federation.
 The Japanese government is trying to increase the number of lawyers as part of broader judicial reforms that have included establishing 74 law schools since 2004. Under the system that will be abolished in 2011, anyone could take the national bar exam, though it was so difficult that the annual pass rate was about 3 percent.
 The government predicted that at least 70 percent of law school graduates would pass the new national bar exam, creating 3,000 new lawyers a year by 2010. But with only 40 percent passing last year, and the low rate driving down law school applications, the government is almost certain to miss its goal.
 Here in Yakumo, four clients came to see Mr. Hirai on a recent day: an older woman worried about leaving an inheritance to an adopted son; a middle-aged salaryman who had hit a female employee; two clients involved in land disputes, one dating from the 1930s.
 Like many Japanese who consult lawyers, the four seemed embarrassed about doing so.
 ''Japanese by nature don't want to publicize their problems,'' Mr. Hirai explained. ''And coming to see a lawyer is to admit that there are problems inside your home or workplace.''
 It was precisely to dispel the shame of consulting a lawyer that Mr. Hirai chose to open his office in the town's most prominent square.
 ''After all, this is a small town,'' he said. ''Because I'm right in front of the train station, everybody will know if a person came to this office. If I'd settled instead in a more secluded part of town, people might think that this is a shady business after all, and that I'm a bad guy.''
 Tomoko Sato, 45, a town assemblywoman who had accompanied one of the clients with the land dispute on his first consultation with a lawyer, said the visit had had a positive effect.
 ''He said he's about 70 percent satisfied,'' Ms. Sato said, adding that the lawyer had clearly explained both advantageous and disadvantageous elements of the man's situation.
 Until now, townspeople would have traveled to see a lawyer in Hakodate only as a last resort. At first, they would have tried to resolve the issue themselves, asked elected officials to mediate or turned to town hall administrators.
 ''Now that there's a lawyer nearby, more people may go to see him instead of coming to us for help,'' said Yakumo's mayor, Yoshio Kawashiro, 64.
 The mayor thought a law office would be good for Yakumo, but did not hide the fact that he was peeved that the lawyer had yet to come to pay his respects at the town hall. ''We learned of his arrival in the newspaper,'' he said.
 After his last client of the day, Mr. Hirai, who is usually soft-spoken but switched with apparent effortlessness to a commanding tone with his clients, loosened his tie.
 ''If the people here start believing that they can get good advice from lawyers, then, in the future, our job will become much easier,'' he said finally. ''Well, within the realm of possibility, I'll take it little by little.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Katsumune Hirai commutes from Hakodate, the nearest city. Yakumo is part of a larger district of some 50,000 people without a lawyer, he said. Half of Japan's lawyers are concentrated in Tokyo, leaving one lawyer for every 30,000 people outside the capital.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KO SASAKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Yakumo welcomed its first lawyer, Mr. Hirai, in April. Map details area of Yakumo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); NOTARIES (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); ACCOUNTING (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



729 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: This Oasis Is Closed

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
AIRPORT lounges are the latest casualty of the current crisis in the airline industry. 
 United Airlines announced this month that it was shutting four of its 38 Red Carpet clubs, after closing three others in the United States and overseas in the last few years. 
 Delta recently closed nine of its 47 Crown Rooms in the United States and abroad, while both American Airlines and US Airways are closing one club each. With one exception, the carriers are continuing to serve airports where they are shutting lounges. American closed its lounge at Stansted Airport in London when it stopped flying there this month. 
 The lounges are just one of the many victims of cost cutting by airlines as they reel from the double whammy of soaring fuel costs -- having skyrocketed more than 80 percent since last year -- and a weakening economy. Carriers are also cutting routes and staff, raising fares and imposing new fees. 
 ''Airlines are looking to take fixed costs out wherever they can,'' said William S. Swelbar, a research engineer at the International Center for Air Transportation at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''If a lounge is being used three, four or five times a day for only a small number of passengers, it just makes prudent sense to stop paying for it. In this high-cost environment, can I continue to offer all amenities to all people when I'm not being compensated?''
 Although Gary Chase, an airline analyst for Lehman Brothers, said he believed that most of the savings in the industry would come from retiring inefficient aircraft and cutting capacity, he said, ''it is easy to underestimate the power that exists in lots of little actions.''
 Carriers generally rent space for their lounges from the airports, on a short- or long-term basis. In addition, they must pay the salaries of lounge staff, and buy food and beverages and other services, like wireless Internet connections. 
 They also derive income from travelers who buy memberships in lounge programs or passes for one-time entry. 
 United, Delta and US Airways declined to comment on their lounge closings or operation, while American declined to provide specifics on its Admirals Club cost structure, though it said the lounges were profitable.
 In addition to American's move at Stansted, US Airways is closing its lounge at Baltimore-Washington International Airport. In the last two years, United has closed lounges at airports in Cleveland and Sydney, Australia, and at London Heathrow Airport. By Oct. 10, it will also shut lounges at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the Baltimore airport, Dallas Fort Worth International Airport and Minneapolis St. Paul International Airport.
 In May and June, Delta reduced the number of its clubs from two to one in Boston, and from three to two in Cincinnati, one of its hubs. It has also eliminated lounges at airports in Kansas City, Mo.; Seattle; San Juan, P.R.; Phoenix; Denver; Honolulu; and London Gatwick Airport.
 At airports where they are closing their own lounges, United and Delta say members can use lounges run by their alliances -- Star and Sky Team, respectively -- and by alliance partner airlines. Star Alliance, for example, operates a lounge at Heathrow, while Northwest, a member of the Sky Team like Delta, operates a lounge in Honolulu.
 But Tim Winship, publisher of FrequentFlier.com, a Web site devoted to travel loyalty programs, says he believes such reciprocal agreements do not always favor business travelers. ''The lounge needs to be in the same terminal as the traveler,'' he said. ''Business travelers can't fritter away time schlepping from one terminal to another.'' 
 The consolidation in the airline industry may be another factor in the closings. Delta and Northwest recently announced a merger, while United and Continental created a marketing and operational alliance. 
 ''Delta's closing lounges in Seattle and Kansas City means they are saying it's not worth it to offer our own lounges, but with our merger with Northwest, maybe there are other lounges we can offer,'' said Henry Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrrester Research. 
 He interprets the decision by United and US Airways to shut down their lounges at the Baltimore airport as an admission that ''Southwest is the big airline there.''
 The lounge closings could affect more than the travelers who belong to the lounge programs, paying a fee that can go as high as $400 annually, plus $50 for a new member. The lounges are also open to passengers who buy day passes, those who purchase certain first- or business-class fares, to holders of elite-level credit cards, like the American Express platinum card; and to travelers who belong to the Priority Pass program, which provides access to some 500 lounges worldwide. 
 Many industry analysts expect the latest round of lounge closings to be permanent, as was the case with most lounges shut by airlines after Sept. 11. And Mr. Winship, for one, predicts more will be announced. 
 Carriers are making capacity cuts incrementally, he said, and he expected that the same will happen with lounge shutdowns.
 The question for some business travelers is whether the airlines will lose more in good will than they will gain in savings. 
 The shutdowns may provide an opportunity, however, to companies like Escape Airports (USA) Inc., which operates a lounge in Terminal 4 at Kennedy International Airport that offers food, beverages, showers and Wi-Fi service. This is open to select passengers on airlines like Asiana and to passengers on other airlines who pay a $40 fee for one-time access.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Escape Airports operates a private lounge that provides premium services at Kennedy Airport.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIRPORTS (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (50%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (93%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); MINNEAPOLIS-SAINT PAUL INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (70%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (50%) MARYLAND, USA (87%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



730 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: TV Service Stalls for Verizon, but Increase in Wireless Customers Keeps Earnings Strong

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
Verizon Communications is having a harder time pushing its television service, which competes with the big cable companies, but the company said the slowing economy had not hurt its cellphone business. 
 In releasing its earnings report on Monday, Verizon said it added 1.5 million new wireless customers, the same number as last quarter. It was 25 percent fewer than the two million it added in the fourth quarter of 2007, but Verizon Wireless, which is a joint venture with Vodafone, said its churn rate -- the pace at which customers defect to other carriers -- fell to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent in the previous quarter. By comparison, Sprint Nextel has a churn rate of 2.45 percent.
 Analysts, however, were concerned about the pace at which Verizon was winning customers for its fiber optic delivery of television programming, called FiOS TV. Verizon added 176,000 customers in the last three months, compared with 263,000 customers in its first quarter. In addition, the company said it added 187,000 FiOS Internet customers. 
 ''That FiOS is already seeing a sequential deceleration is a startling development,'' a communications analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, Craig Moffett, wrote in a research report.
 Dennis F. Strigl, Verizon's president, was puzzled by analysts' questioning of Verizon's FiOS results. 
 ''I'm not sure where the concern is coming from,'' Mr. Strigl said in an interview after the company reported its second-quarter results. 
 He said it cost Verizon less to acquire FiOS television customers in the second quarter than it did six months ago because the company had been offering new customers a free 19-inch high-definition television, which cost the company $200 each. (The televisions were an incentive only in the first quarter.)
 Verizon began offering the FiOS service, which the company hopes will compete with the major cable companies, in New York City on Monday. But as the slower adoption rates show, Verizon is entering a hotly competitive market where customers are as jealously guarded as a seat on a crowded subway. 
 Verizon sued Time Warner Cable earlier this year, saying some of its rival's commercials included false and misleading statements. And Verizon has sparred with Comcast and Time Warner over marketing techniques that Verizon was using to retain customers who wanted to switch to a competitor. 
 In June, the Federal Communications Commission said Verizon could not talk customers out of switching to another phone service provider while waiting for their phone numbers to be transferred, a victory for Comcast and Time Warner Cable, which filed a complaint in February.
 ''It's a natural phenomenon,'' Mr. Strigl said of the aggressive customer tactics. ''It happened in the early days of the wireless business.''
 Verizon reported second-quarter net income of $1.88 billion, or 66 cents a share, a 12 percent increase compared with profit of $1.68 billion, or 58 cents a share, in the second quarter of last year. Revenue increased slightly to $24.1 billion, from $23.3 billion a year ago. Mr. Strigl said he was pleased with the results.
 Verizon, like AT&T, Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile, sees data as the growth engine of its wireless business. 
 Mr. Strigl said more than 30 percent of the mobile devices Verizon is selling have access to the Internet, and also receive and send e-mail and text messages. By contrast, he said, ''a year ago it was half that.''
 Verizon's expansion efforts could be thwarted if union-represented employees walk out when their contract expires on Aug. 2. (They voted last week to authorize a strike.) Verizon executives said they were confident that a resolution would be reached.
 Mr. Strigl conceded that there was one area that had disappointed Verizon. The company lost 133,000 customers for its D.S.L. Internet service, which uses phone lines. 
 The loss had nothing to do with the flagging economy, he said. Many analysts have feared that customers tend to drop costly services when personal budgets need to be trimmed. Mr. Strigl attributed the loss to some customers switching to FiOS, while others defected to competitors.
 Verizon also lost 920,000 residential and business telephone lines -- they now tally 38.3 million -- a decline of 8.5 percent year over year. The drop was steeper among residential customers, an 11.4 percent drop compared with the same period a year ago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Verizon's quarterly profit rose 12 percent, to $1.88 billion.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (79%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (73%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (91%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (70%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (68%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (52%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); S (NYSE) (70%); TWC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (68%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



731 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Bank Shares Retreat, Giving Up Gains

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
A sell-off of stocks accelerated in late trading Monday as investors moved out of shares of investment and commercial banks, many of which have given back all of their gains from last week.
The sharp declines in financial stocks sent the Dow Jones industrial average to a 239-point decline, after a day spent entirely in negative territory. The blue-chip index finished at 11,131.08, down 2.1 percent. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fared little better, closing down 1.9 percent at 1,234.37. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index lost 2 percent, closing at 2,264.22.
It has been a rocky period for financial stocks, which have followed a jerky trajectory from steep losses to record rallies and back. Last Wednesday, a group of financial stocks listed in the S.& P. reached their highest value in five weeks. But in the last three trading sessions, they have plunged 11.5 percent. 
A late-afternoon announcement by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. that four major banks were planning to issue a new type of bond to aid the mortgage market did not stem the bank stocks' slide. The sell-off only intensified in all three major indexes just after Mr. Paulson spoke.
No single event seemed to set off the declines, though a few developments over the weekend may have refocused investors' attention on financial companies.
On Friday, the federal government closed two more regional banks, in Nevada and California, after both were found to be undercapitalized. On Saturday, the federal housing assistance bill had its final passage in the Senate. Federal regulators are now seeking ways to quickly put in place provisions that help Americans at risk of foreclosure.
Many shares of financial services firms finished near their lows of the day. By the close, shares of Citigroup, a Dow component, had fallen 7.5 percent, and the battered Lehman Brothers had dipped 10.4 percent. Goldman Sachs lost 3.2 percent; JPMorgan Chase dipped 4.7 percent. Shares of Freddie Mac, the mortgage giant, fell 6.7 percent, and Fannie Mae tumbled nearly 11 percent.
American automakers also suffered through a painful session. General Motors dipped 7.6 percent after the company announced it would cut production at several plants and lay off more workers. Shares in Ford Motor were off nearly 6 percent.
Investors may be hedging their bets ahead of two major economic reports scheduled to be released at the end of the week. On Thursday, the government will report its preliminary estimate for the nation's economic growth in the second quarter. Economists expect a growth rate above 2 percent, more than double the rate in the first quarter, in part because of the government's stimulus package, which buoyed consumer spending.
On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics is to release its latest snapshot of the labor market, considered the most important indicator of the economy's health. Employers have cut jobs every month this year, and economists think the trend will continue. They forecast a drop of 75,000 jobs in July.
Crude oil gained $1.47 Monday, settling at $124.73 a barrel.
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury bill rose 25/32, to 99, as investors sought the safe haven of government debt. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direct, fell to 4 percent, from 4.10 percent.
Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity.
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011



732 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: At This Summer School, Those Who Teach, Learn

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: SCARSDALE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
While the children of this upscale suburb go to camp or travel abroad, many of their teachers are spending summer vacation in school, taking students' seats.
 In a class on economic, environmental and social sustainability at Scarsdale High School, two dozen teachers in T-shirts, shorts, skirts and sandals debated the value of bacteria to a community and read aloud poems about a strawberry's journey to the table. Rachele Colantuono, an eighth-grade science teacher who is helping to run the class, took attendance and authorized bathroom breaks. ''I tend to let these guys go without a pass,'' she said. 
 Known as the Scarsdale Teachers Institute, the program has teachers teaching one another, with nearly 200 courses offered year-round, including titles like ''J. R. R. Tolkien: An Exploration of 'The Lord of the Rings,' '' ''Beyond Google 2.0: Wikis, Social Networking and New Research Tools,'' and ''Stress Management for Teachers.'' It is one of the most extensive teacher-development programs in the New York area, with more than 120 teachers -- mostly from the high-performing Scarsdale and neighboring Edgemont districts -- enrolled in at least one course this summer and 460 teachers in a typical year. 
 Teachers pay between $75 and $225 to take each class, which can run from 2 to 10 days, and earn credits that are counted, along with graduate work, toward future salary increases. 
 In the past year, 364 of Scarsdale's 459 teachers have taken at least one course at the institute; Ms. Colantuono, 28, has taken more than 25 since she joined the district in 2003, meeting many of her friends that way. She has also taught several classes, including one at Rockefeller State Park Preserve last fall in which she showed other teachers how to identify leaves and track animal prints as a way to tap into outdoor resources for the classroom. ''We're outdoors, and the first questions were what about ticks and what about poison ivy?'' she said. ''That's what I like. You're sharing what you're passionate about.'' 
 Margaret Crocco, a professor of social studies at Teachers College at Columbia University, said that professional development for teachers has become more common as the federal government and many states, including New York, have increasingly emphasized continuing education. But she said few districts have gone as far as Scarsdale has in developing local programs.
 ''The key is that it is teacher-led and teacher-initiated, because in that case you know that it's addressing real teacher needs,'' she said of the Scarsdale Institute. ''Very often the kind of professional development that gets done is not connected meaningfully to teachers' lives.''
 The Scarsdale Teachers Institute was started in 1968, an outgrowth of a committee of the local teachers' union, the Scarsdale Teachers Association, that was looking at ways to improve staff training and development. ''You want teachers entering the classrooms who are up to date on their skills and who love learning,'' said Susan Taylor, the institute's director, who previously taught history at Scarsdale Middle School for 30 years.
 With an annual budget of $402,000 -- including $130,000 from tuition, $93,000 from the Scarsdale district and $28,000 from Edgemont, as well as a state grant of $131,000 -- the institute has expanded to seek outside experts to lead many of the classes alongside the district's own teachers. For instance, it has collaborated with Lincoln Center on arts education, the Jacob Burns Film Center on filmmaking and Yale University for a new class called ''From Sand to Sea: Cultural Exchange Through Trade on the Silk Road.'' Beginning in the fall, it will team up with Carnegie Hall for a class on music of New Delhi and Istanbul.
 Ms. Taylor said that new courses are added only after being approved by the Board of Education, and they must support the district's overall goals, which include a focus on technology, the arts and special education. All courses are pass or fail and require a final project or paper. A handful of teachers drop out of classes every year for personal reasons, Ms. Taylor said, though she cannot recall the last time someone received an F.
 Duncan Wilson, an assistant principal at Scarsdale Middle School who was coordinating the sustainability class with Ms. Colantuono last week, said the classes boost morale by bringing together teachers across grades and schools. ''This is an essential part of the well-being of our community of teachers,'' he said. ''It gives them the chance to grow and have a voice. Here they really feel like they're part of something.''
 As the sustainability class was trying to save the world, nine teachers in another part of the high school were studying editing techniques used in ''The Silence of the Lambs'' for a class called ''Video Production Boot Camp.'' During the next four days, they would act in and produce their own short films under the direction of Greg Leong, a high school math and computer teacher whose hobby is film, and an alum, Matt Beals, who is a cinematographer.
 Mr. Leong, 45, said that teaching teachers is easier because they catch on faster than teenagers and usually laugh at his jokes. ''They have a larger frame of reference,'' he said. ''With the kids, I can say 'Have you seen ''The Sting''?' and it's a blank. You date yourself pretty easily.'' 
 Ben Sawyer, a high school English teacher, said that he found the class useful because he refers to film classics like ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' in his own classes. Mr. Sawyer has taken more than two dozen classes, and along the way, has learned how to become a better teacher himself.
 ''There are times when I thought, 'Oh, my God, this is horrible teaching -- I hope I don't do that,' '' said Mr. Sawyer, 35, who explained that the worst teachers simply ''dump information'' on their students. ''You can learn about yourself by watching bad teaching. Anytime I find myself doing that, I step back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scarsdale district schoolteachers met for a workshop at the Scarsdale Teachers Institute, which provides enrichment classes.
 An exercise for a workshop in environmental and economic sustainability. The institute started offering classes in 1968.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); STATE PARKS (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



733 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Calculating Economics Of an Eye For an Eye

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
In the Albanian canon, a 15th-century handbook detailing the rules of revenge that is still in circulation, a man's relatives are expected ''to take their blood back'' if he is shot. In Iran a death can be compensated with blood money: 100 camels in early Islam; thousands of dollars today. A girl's life is worth only half of a boy's. So is an eye; a tooth, one-twentieth. In Sicily there is an oral tradition describing various methods of revenge: tying a man's feet to his neck so that when he moves, he strangles himself; handcuffing a victim to a bonfire of olive wood; throwing him into a sty with hungry pigs. 
 Today one can see vengeance on a mass scale embodied in the person of Radovan Karadzic, the former leader of the Bosnian Serbs, who is sitting in a Belgrade jail, charged with war crimes, including overseeing the massacre of nearly 8,000 Muslim men and boys in 1995 at Srebrenica. At least some of those deaths were claimed by Bosnian Serb officials at the time as revenge for previous killings of Serbs. 
 Vengeance: it is as old as humanity, as natural as blinking. It has been examined and pondered by anthropologists, psychologists, sociologists, philosophers, legal scholars, poets, playwrights and even primatologists, who have recently found that chimpanzees will punish thieves by overturning their food tables so they cannot enjoy the fruits of their crime.
 Only recently, however, have economists turned their attention to vengeance and tried to measure it in the real world. In a working paper published last month on the Web site of the National Bureau of Economic Research (www.nber.org), Naci H. Mocan, an economist at Louisiana State University, gathered information on 89,000 people in 53 countries to draw a map of vengefulness. What he found was that among the most vengeful are women, older people, the poor and residents of high-crime areas.
 ''There was a question of whether or not we can quantify vengeful feelings in a scientific fashion,'' Mr. Mocan said. ''It's the first analysis of the issue looking at actual data.''
 It turns out that personal attributes -- age, income, gender -- as well as the characteristics of one's culture and country contribute to a person's desire for revenge, Mr. Mocan said. ''A feeling such as vengeance,'' he said, ''which can be considered primal, is nonetheless influenced by the economic and social circumstances of the person and the country he or she lives in.''
 For economists, Mr. Mocan's work, while still preliminary, opens up a new area for exploration. ''I think this is really important research,'' said Daniel Houser, a professor at George Mason University specializing in experimental economics and emotion. ''I'm not aware of any work in economics that tries to capture individual differences in vengeful feelings.''
 In the last couple of decades a lot of work has shown how important trust and reciprocity are in developing efficient markets, Mr. Houser explained, and what helps to create trust is punishment. Yet punishment can also spiral out of control, and people can get stuck in a retaliatory cycle, just as in a nasty divorce or a longstanding family feud. 
 ''How do you calibrate the proper level of punishment to promote effective market relations?'' Mr. Houser asked. It may turn out, he said, that ''how much you want to punish is connected to the likelihood of creating a more formal market economy.'' 
 Mr. Mocan collected data compiled by a United Nations Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute survey from the 1990s and 2000. People were asked what would be an appropriate sentence for a 20-year-old man found guilty of stealing a color television if it was his second offense. The punishments ranged from alternatives to prison through two to six months in jail, all the way to a life sentence. Mr. Mocan tried to take account of the different values of a television in different countries, the effectiveness of the legal system and the going rate, if you will, for other crimes. 
 In China, Romania and Botswana, for example, nearly 40 percent of participants preferred a prison sentence of four or more years. In South Africa the rate is 25 percent; 18 to 20 percent in Egypt, Ukraine and Paraguay; 16 percent in Canada and Indonesia; 12 percent in the United States and the Philippines; about 4 percent in Norway and Slovenia; and 1 percent in Belgium and Spain. 
 Within a given country, people who have been victims of the same kind of crime (here, a burglary) tend to be more vengeful, but not if they have been victims of a different crime, like mugging.
 Most of Mr. Mocan's findings confirm what researchers in different disciplines have already found: that vengeful feelings are stronger in countries with low levels of income and education, a weak rule of law and those who recently experienced a war or are ethnically or linguistically fragmented. Anthropologists tend to believe that vengeful feelings were useful in binding a family or group together in early human society. They were protective devices before states were established and did the job of punishing wrongdoers. 
 ''The results make good intuitive sense, confirming what we already suspected,'' said Tyler Cowen, the author of ''Discover Your Inner Economist: Use Incentives to Fall in Love, Survive Your Next Meeting and Motivate Your Dentist.''
 What Mr. Mocan found most surprising was that women turned out to be more vengeful than men. If a woman had been a victim of burglary, she was 10 percent more likely to impose a prison sentence; for men the figure was 5 percent.
 Edward Glaeser, an economist at Harvard who has tried to explain group hatred in terms of political economy, has written that ''an economist's definition of hatred is the willingness to pay a price to inflict harm on others.'' In healthy economies, he argues, the cost is higher, and the demand for hatred and vengeance drops. 
 Vengeance, of course, often defies what would appear to be rational calculations of gain and loss. In experiments using what is known as the ultimatum game, subjects were told that Player 1 would offer to share a sum of money -- say, $10 -- with Player 2. But if the two didn't agree on how to split the cash, then no one would get anything. 
 Logically, even an offer of one cent leaves you better off than you were before. But people repeatedly rejected offers of less than 30 percent of the total, preferring to forgo any money and punish the cheapskate (and themselves), rather than accepting what they perceived to be an unfair offer. If a computer instead of a person did the split, the other player was more likely to accept a low offer. 
 The willingness to suffer harm yourself is often much more extreme. In Euripides' play, Medea is so bent on wreaking vengeance on her unfaithful husband, Jason, that she murders their children. 
 Jared Diamond recently wrote in The New Yorker about a revenge killing in the New Guinea Highlands that took three years and involved 300 men, 30 deaths, permanent crippling and large payments to all the soldiers recruited. The reward? Psychological satisfaction and the knowledge that the avenger would be considered a hero and remembered if he were killed. That personal satisfaction is something Mr. Diamond said every human being, no matter what the culture, can identify with. 
 This type of vengeful passion, Mr. Mocan acknowledged, may occupy a wholly different dimension than the one he tried to capture with his research. But Mr. Mocan, who has also done research that found that the death penalty deters murders, said his findings raised the question of whether vengeance should be a legitimate aspect of the criminal justice system.
 In her 2002 book, ''Revenge: A Story of Hope,'' Laura Blumenfeld wrote about her search for vengeance on a Palestinian terrorist who grazed her father with a bullet in Jerusalem without seriously harming him. She explored the dark alleyways of revenge, like the examples cited in the beginning of this article.
 She is skeptical of the economic approach. ''How do you quantify shame?'' she asked. Often ''punishment is irrelevant,'' she said, which is why families often still want to take revenge even if the perpetrator is jailed. ''It's not about inflicting pain, it's about honor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A woman with photos of the Bosnian Serbs Radovan Karadzic, top, and Ratko Mladic, both charged with war crimes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANILO KRSTANOVIC/REUTERS)
 A Bosnian Serb woman at her son's grave near Sarajevo on Christmas Eve in 1995.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANJA NIEDRINGHAUS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); MEN (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); MAMMALOGY (77%); ZOOLOGY (74%); WAR CRIMES (72%); RELIGION (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); CHRISTMAS (70%); WRITERS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (70%); PRIMATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); DRAMA LITERATURE (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); THEATER & DRAMA (65%); POETRY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (77%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SERBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



734 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2383 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 THE LIFE OF THE ONLY LAWYER 
 In a Previously Lawyerless Town
 There are plenty of reasons that smaller towns in the Japanese countryside would have a lawyer: debts, disputes over property, wrangling over inheritances. But it's not unusual for places like Yakumo, population 19,743, or even Japanese towns five times its size, to not have a lawyer. In April, Yakumo got its first lawyer, Katsumune Hirai, as part of an ambitious plan to send them to the hinterlands. PAGE A10
 PALESTINIAN GROUPS STEP UP ARRESTS
 Tensions between the main rival Palestinian groups, Hamas and Fatah, spread from Gaza to the West Bank with reports of the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority forces detaining more than 50 activists and academics associated with Hamas. The detentions seemed to be in retaliation for a Hamas sweep against Fatah members and institutions over the weekend. PAGE A11 
 THE ECONOMIC UPSIDE OF PEACE
 With its economy stagnating, many people in Syria are coming to believe that peace with Israel is inevitable -- and necessary. The country, which could once afford to be serenely indifferent to Western sanctions, is now being forced to liberalize and open its economy as its oil reserves run low. ''Poverty is increasing, inequality is increasing, and I believe the street is frustrated,'' a Syrian lawyer said. ''They need peace with all our neighbors.'' PAGE A11
 TURKISH LEADER URGES UNITY
 At the funeral for 10 of the 17 victims of Sunday's double bombing in Istanbul, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey called for national unity. ''Our problem is to maintain unity and togetherness so that our nation can attain a better position,'' he said. As he spoke, local residents chanted slogans against a Kurdish separatist group that is suspected in the bombing. PAGE A12
 CHINA MULLS POLLUTION FIXES
 The skies in Beijing are still murky from pollution as the Olympic Games draw nearer and authorities are considering emergency measures during the Games beyond the traffic restrictions and factory shutdowns that, so far, have failed to clear the air. The country's state media said that officials might force far more vehicles off city streets -- possibly 90 percent of the city's total -- and temporarily close more factories. PAGE A6
 TENSIONS SURROUND SERBIAN RALLY
 Some fear a rally called by an ultranationalist party in Belgrade, Serbia, could turn violent over the likely extradition of Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb leader arrested last week on war crimes charges. The rally on Tuesday is being organized by the Radical Party, which has glorified Mr. Karadzic as a hero and opposes extraditing him to the United Nations tribunal. PAGE A6
 national
 HATE FOR LIBERALS AND GAYS 
 Drove Gunman in Tennessee
 A man who entered a church in Knoxville, Tenn., on Sunday during services and shot eight people, killing two, was motivated by a hatred for liberals and homosexuals, Chief Sterling P. Owen IV, of the Knoxville Police Department said. During interrogation the man admitted to the shooting and that ''he had targeted the church because of its liberal leanings and his belief that all liberals should be killed because they were ruining the country,'' the chief said. PAGE A15
 A ROUTINE CHECKUP FOR MCCAIN
 Senator John McCain said that his dermatologist had removed a spot from his right cheek and that while it did not appear to be serious she would perform a biopsy ''just to make sure everything is fine.'' PAGE A14
 HOUSTON LAGS ON GOING GREEN
 Houston's shimmering skyline may wear the label of the world's energy capital, but deep in Houston's Dumpsters lies a less glamorous superlative: it is the worst recycler among the United States' 30 largest cities. Environmental advocates are pleading for municipal intervention. And some small improvements -- an organic waste program, for one -- are expected soon. But city officials say real change will be hard to come by. PAGE A13
 OBAMA RETURNS FOCUS TO U.S. WOES
 With the conventions of the two major parties just a month away, Senator Barack Obama shifted the emphasis of his campaign back to the deteriorating economy after a weeklong trip abroad. In Washington, he met with a group of 20 prominent economists, former government officials and business and labor leaders to discuss problems like vanishing jobs and rising food and fuel costs. Polls show that the deepening economic slowdown is the issue most on the minds of Americans. PAGE A14
 PROMISED ROAD PLANS IN JEOPARDY
 Gasoline tax revenue is falling so fast that the federal government may not be able to meet its commitments to states for road projects already under way, the secretary of transportation, Mary E. Peters, said. She said the short-term solution would be for the Highway Trust Fund's highway account to borrow money from the fund's mass transit account, which would require Congressional approval. It is sure to face opposition. PAGE A17
 AGENCY HALTS STUDENT LOANS
 The Massachusetts Educational Financing Authority, which secured more than $500 million in educational loans last year, announced it would not offer loans for the coming academic year. The authority's executive director said the financing authority could not obtain money because of disruptions in the capital markets. PAGE A20
 Business
 TO ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD, 
 Via the Middle East
 Air carriers around the world are shedding jobs and getting rid of routes in the face of rising oil costs. Except in the Middle East, where carriers are aggressively expanding. This allows gulf states to leverage their geographical position as a crossroads, putting 80 percent of the world's most attractive markets, like India and China, within reach of nonstop flights. PAGE C4
 THE FAMILY THAT'S SLIMED TOGETHER
 Nickelodeon has been around long enough for people who viewed the network as children to have children of their own. The children-oriented network is trying to make its schedule more attractive to the parents who were raised on a diet of slime falling from the sky and gross-out humor by making its Nick at Nite programming block more family-friendly and reimagining its primetime lineup. PAGE C8
 G.M. ANNOUNCES LAYOFFS
 General Motors will eliminate shifts in Moraine, Ohio, and Shreveport, La., and lay off 1,760 workers to further reduce production of slow-selling pickups and sport utility vehicles. The moves were expected, as G.M. and other automakers continue to cope with the drastic shift in consumers' taste to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. PAGE C4
 CHANGING THE FACE OF THE BRAND
 The Insignia, a new vehicle from the General Motors brands Opel and Vauxhall, was introduced last week sporting some new insignias, part of a push by G. M. to show that something new and different is happening with those brands. But how much will tweaking logos help bolster the struggling automaker? PAGE C7 
 metro
 OFFICER UNDER INVESTIGATION 
 After Bicyclist Episode
 A New York City police officer was stripped of his gun and badge and assigned to desk duty pending a Police Department investigation after an amateur online video surfaced showing him grabbing and pushing a bicyclist to the ground in Times Square. In court papers, the officer, Patrick Pogan, said the man rode his bicycle straight into him. But the video clip shows the officer lunging toward the cyclist. PAGE B1 
 A FLAMBOYANT, FITTING FUNERAL
 The streets of Harlem were filled with music and pomp during the funeral procession for Barbara Ann Teer, the founder of the four-decades-old National Black Theater. The marquee at the Apollo Theater flashed a tribute. There were African drummers. Doves were released. And there was an elephant. ''She was very fond of elephants,'' an attendee said. PAGE B1 
 Science Times
 10 THINGS YOU SHOULDN'T LET RUIN
 Your Summer Vacation
 Are killer hot dogs keeping you up at night? Do you take the bus every morning because you're terrified of being swallowed by a wormhole while driving to work? Not to worry, John Tierney writes: you can scratch these and eight other anxieties from your worry list. PAGE F1 
 ANYTHING BUT CLEAR
 The architecture of atoms and molecules in glass, like stained-glass windows in old churches, is indistinguishable from that of a liquid. Yet the lenses in eyeglasses do not drip out, they stay put. This paradox still mystifies scientists, and the theories that are being developed provoke vehement disagreement. PAGE F1 
 MEDICINE'S RACIAL SCHISM
 The American Medical Association, the nation's largest and most powerful physicians' group, is overwhelmingly white. Black physicians have a lesser-known group, the National Medical Association. Recently a spotlight fell briefly on this schism. The A.M.A. made a rare public address to the N.M.A. to deliver an even rarer message: an apology to the nation's black physicians, citing a century of ''past wrongs.'' PAGE F5 
 Global Warming Whiplash F3 
 Do You Trust Your Doctor? F6 
 Treadmills and Hearts F7 
 Arts
 CALCULATING THE ECONOMICS 
 Of an Eye for an Eye
 At what point is a need for vengeance counterproductive to a society's development? That's one of the questions posed in a paper published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, which found that vengeful feelings , like the preferred punishments for certain crimes, are stronger in poorer countries, or those that have recently experienced a war or are ethnically or linguistically fragmented. PAGE E1
 FALLOUT FROM A NIGHTMARISH WAR
 The children who endured the long civil war in Uganda are the focus of ''Lord's Children,'' part of the ''Wide Angle'' series on PBS. Some were kidnapped and forced to become soldiers. Others were raped. And when the dust settled -- a cease-fire in 2006 halted the abductions -- they returned to families often terrified of what they had become. A review by Neil Genzlinger. PAGE E3
 HEAVEN AND HASH MARKS
 Until recently, the most profitable work produced by Tyndale House Publishers was the ''Left Behind'' series of apocalyptic novels. But a new advice book by the Ohio State University head coach football Jim Tressel marks the company's third best seller that eschewed the Gospels in favor of the gridiron. PAGE E1
 Cribbing From 'Da Vinci Code' E4
 Sports
 FOR ARMY STANDOUT, 
 N.F.L. Is on Hold
 Caleb Campbell had been drafted by the Detroit Lions, and was anticipating training camp and signing his professional contract. But that was before he was ordered to return to West Point, where he graduated in May, as an officer on active duty. Campbell was supposed to be able to play under a policy that allowed individuals with exceptional skills to pursue professional careers while remaining on active duty, a policy that was recently rescinded. PAGE D7
 FROM PROSPECT TO TRIVIA QUESTION
 It was almost a year ago that Mike Bacsik, a former pitcher for the Washington Nationals, let loose a weak fastball that became Barry Bonds's record-breaking 756th career home run. The anniversary should be generating a lot more buzz, but it hasn't: Bonds is in baseball purgatory, and Bacsik, who had carved out a nice side career as a historical footnote, has spent most of his time toiling in the minor leagues. PAGE D6
 RUSSIA BOLSTERS ITS SPORTS PROGRAMS
 Just a few years ago, Russia was only spending a few hundred thousand dollars in Rossport, the government agency charged with overseeing Russia's athletic development. But now that it's flush with oil revenues, the country is pumping much more cash into its sports programs in the hopes of staving off a slide in its Olympic eminence -- to the tune of $1 billion. PAGE D1 
 AS THE FAVRE TURNS
 The soap opera surrounding Brett Favre's return to the N.F.L. (will he? won't he? and with whom?) keeps trudging along, even as the team with which he made his name -- and which reserves his rights -- begins training camp. ''The biggest thing is, everybody wants a resolution, so everybody can move on to the next thing,'' a Packers defensive lineman said. PAGE D7 
 Obituaries
 JAMIEL ALEXANDER CHAGRA, 63
 An F.B.I. wanted poster described him as ''a carpet salesman, professional gambler and narcotics trafficker.'' He was also depicted as the highest of high rollers, a man who flew in private jets and gambled at roped-off tables in Las Vegas. He was accused but never convicted of masterminding the assassination of a federal judge in 1979, and was later convicted of heading a major drug-smuggling ring and attempting to murder a federal prosecutor. PAGE B6
 MICHAEL BERNIKER, 73
 The Brooklyn-born music producer went to Columbia and served in the military before entering the music industry, and during the course of his career he won nine Grammy Awards over four decades. He served as producer for acts in myriad genres, including Latin jazz, spoken word, comedy and classical albums. PAGE B6
 Editorial
 THERE WAS SMOKE -- AND FIRE
 It was hardly news that the Bush Justice Department has been illegally politicized, but it was important that the Justice Department finally owned up to that sorry state of affairs. PAGE A18
 PROSTITUTION AND PREVENTION
 By spreading knowledge and devising plans to help at-risk children, the authorities can put themselves in a position to intervene before troubled youngsters end up selling their bodies on the streets. PAGE A18
 PAST TIME FOR SPEAKING OUT
 Two weeks before he goes to the Beijing Olympic Games, President Bush remains unacceptably silent about China's crackdown on basic human rights. PAGE A18
 op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 The skills slowdown is the biggest issue facing the country. Rising gas prices are bound to dominate the fall election because voters are slapped in the face with them every time they visit the pump. But this slow-moving problem, more than any other, will shape the destiny of the nation. PAGE A19
 BOB HERBERT
 It remains to be seen whether Team Obama, which has already missed some opportunities, can go on the offensive with the economy. PAGE A19
 UNIDENTIFIED FLYING THREATS
 The United States government hasn't looked into U.F.O. sightings since 1969. In an Op-Ed article, Nick Pope argues that the investigations should resume in order to detect any earthly aircraft, invisible to radar, that might represent a threat to national security. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL FATAH (90%); HAMAS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); BOMBINGS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); SHOOTINGS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (62%); OLYMPICS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); WAR CRIMES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (74%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (50%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (67%) TURKEY (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SYRIA (92%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



735 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: China Emerges as Major Player in Global Trade Talks

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
As seven years of global trade talks approach another climax, China is emerging as a central player -- and coming under heavy criticism from the United States and others for its tactics. 
 No one should be surprised to find the Chinese trade minister, Chen Deming, playing hardball. In 2004, Mr. Chen studied at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, and he has said privately that he learned all his negotiating skills in the United States. 
 Now, with the latest trade talks dragging into their second full week, China is fighting for last-minute concessions. Those include the right to shield important farm products from competition and to delay cutting some of its tariffs for years. 
 ''What we are seeing is the emergence of a new power pole,'' said Joe Guinan, a trade expert with the German Marshall Fund, a public policy group. He said that was finally being felt at the World Trade Organization. ''They have begun to throw their weight around -- and this is a glimpse of the future.'' 
 Such a development has, Mr. Guinan said, ''been coming a long time, and it is not going away.'' 
 On Monday in Geneva, Washington accused China and India of throwing the round of talks ''into the gravest jeopardy of its nearly seven-year life.'' India was criticized for rejecting the package laid out by Pascal Lamy, the director general of the W.T.O., and China was taken to task for backing out of terms it committed to last week. 
 ''We are very much concerned about the direction that a couple of countries are taking,'' the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said. ''I am very concerned it will jeopardize the outcome of this round.'' 
 Earlier, American and European diplomats warned that the talks could collapse. 
 That criticism was rejected by Beijing's ambassador to the W.T.O., Sun Zhenyu, who said his country had ''tried very hard to contribute to the success of the round.'' 
 Inside the negotiating rooms, Mr. Chen is regarded as a pragmatic, no-nonsense politician whose style is tough, direct and relatively free of rhetoric. 
 At a dinner with the European trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, Mr. Chen once described how, as the son of an intellectual, he was banished to the countryside during China's Cultural Revolution. He began work on a tractor and, in time, began organizing the work of all the tractors before assuming leadership roles in his village and then in the region. 
 In some ways his journey from humble origins mirrors that of China in international groups like the World Trade Organization. Beijing joined in December 2001 and, inside the group, seems to keep a low profile. As of March 2007, it had 5 officials in the W.T.O. bureaucracy, compared with 29 for the United States and 178 for France. 
 But that seems to be changing. 
 Last week, Mr. Lamy invited China into a new Group of 7 industrialized nations, a conference whose other members are the United States, the European Union, India, Brazil, Australia and Japan. 
 Not so long ago, global trade talks were steered largely by the United States, the European Union, Canada and Japan.
 It was the new G-7 grouping that helped push forward a compromise text that won widespread -- but not total -- support late on Friday. 
 The discussions in Geneva have confirmed that the balance of power in global trade has shifted irrevocably with the rise of China. 
 Because of China's enormous population and its growing middle class, even a small opening in the nation's market in goods and services offers exporters from the United States and Europe potentially large rewards. 
 But by the same token, Beijing's ultracompetitive export performance is the main reason that other emerging economies like India and Brazil are reluctant to open their markets. 
 This is one reason that China has failed to assume the leadership of the developing world as some had predicted. 
 ''A lot of the reticence we have seen from Brazil or Argentina in nonagricultural market access is driven not by fear of the U.S. and the E.U. but by fear of being swamped by China,'' Mr. Guinan said. 
 Another reason that China's role is ambivalent is that it has a large, poor, rural population. 
 Lu Xiankun, counselor and head of division in the Chinese mission, says there are hundreds of millions of farmers in China earning around $2 a day. That, he says, explains Chinese efforts to shield cotton, sugar and rice from competition from imports. 
 From an American perspective, Beijing, having helped shape the deal that won broad agreement on Friday, is now trying to reopen it with the help of India. 
 David Shark, a senior American trade official, said these policies ''would have their most serious detrimental effects on precisely those poorer developing countries that already have such limited agricultural export capabilities.'' 
 They also make it harder for the White House to sell reductions in farm subsidies to Congress, particularly for cotton. 
 In addition, China wants allowances to reflect its relatively recent entry into the W.T.O. But one European official said that this could mean the delay of some Chinese tariff reductions beyond 2025, perhaps to 2027. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chen Deming, China's commerce minister, is being criticized by the United States for seeking late concessions in negotiations.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF THE US (56%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (58%); PASCAL LAMY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); INDIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



736 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: The Biggest Issue

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Why did the United States become the leading economic power of the 20th century? The best short answer is that a ferocious belief that people have the power to transform their own lives gave Americans an unparalleled commitment to education, hard work and economic freedom. 
 Between 1870 and 1950, the average American's level of education rose by 0.8 years per decade. In 1890, the average adult had completed about 8 years of schooling. By 1900, the average American had 8.8 years. By 1910, it was 9.6 years, and by 1960, it was nearly 14 years. 
 As Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz describe in their book, ''The Race Between Education and Technology,'' America's educational progress was amazingly steady over those decades, and the U.S. opened up a gigantic global lead. Educational levels were rising across the industrialized world, but the U.S. had at least a 35-year advantage on most of Europe. In 1950, no European country enrolled 30 percent of its older teens in full-time secondary school. In the U.S., 70 percent of older teens were in school.
 America's edge boosted productivity and growth. But the happy era ended around 1970 when America's educational progress slowed to a crawl. Between 1975 and 1990, educational attainments stagnated completely. Since then, progress has been modest. America's lead over its economic rivals has been entirely forfeited, with many nations surging ahead in school attainment.
 This threatens the country's long-term prospects. It also widens the gap between rich and poor. Goldin and Katz describe a race between technology and education. The pace of technological change has been surprisingly steady. In periods when educational progress outpaces this change, inequality narrows. The market is flooded with skilled workers, so their wages rise modestly. In periods, like the current one, when educational progress lags behind technological change, inequality widens. The relatively few skilled workers command higher prices, while the many unskilled ones have little bargaining power.
 The meticulous research of Goldin and Katz is complemented by a report from James Heckman of the University of Chicago. Using his own research, Heckman also concludes that high school graduation rates peaked in the U.S. in the late 1960s, at about 80 percent. Since then they have declined.
 In ''Schools, Skills and Synapses,'' Heckman probes the sources of that decline. It's not falling school quality, he argues. Nor is it primarily a shortage of funding or rising college tuition costs. Instead, Heckman directs attention at family environments, which have deteriorated over the past 40 years. 
 Heckman points out that big gaps in educational attainment are present at age 5. Some children are bathed in an atmosphere that promotes human capital development and, increasingly, more are not. By 5, it is possible to predict, with depressing accuracy, who will complete high school and college and who won't.
 I.Q. matters, but Heckman points to equally important traits that start and then build from those early years: motivation levels, emotional stability, self-control and sociability. He uses common sense to intuit what these traits are, but on this subject economists have a lot to learn from developmental psychologists. 
 I point to these two research projects because the skills slowdown is the biggest issue facing the country. Rising gas prices are bound to dominate the election because voters are slapped in the face with them every time they visit the pump. But this slow-moving problem, more than any other, will shape the destiny of the nation. 
 Second, there is a big debate under way over the sources of middle-class economic anxiety. Some populists emphasize the destructive forces of globalization, outsourcing and predatory capitalism. These people say we need radical labor market reforms to give the working class a chance. But the populists are going to have to grapple with the Goldin, Katz and Heckman research, which powerfully buttresses the arguments of those who emphasize human capital policies. It's not globalization or immigration or computers per se that widen inequality. It's the skills gap. Boosting educational attainment at the bottom is more promising than trying to reorganize the global economy.
 Third, it's worth noting that both sides of this debate exist within the Democratic Party. The G.O.P. is largely irrelevant. If you look at Barack Obama's education proposals -- especially his emphasis on early childhood -- you see that they flow naturally and persuasively from this research. (It probably helps that Obama and Heckman are nearly neighbors in Chicago). McCain's policies seem largely oblivious to these findings. There's some vague talk about school choice, but Republicans are inept when talking about human capital policies.
 America rose because it got more out of its own people than other nations. That stopped in 1970. Now, other issues grab headlines and campaign attention. But this tectonic plate is still relentlessly and menacingly shifting beneath our feet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (87%); TUITION FEES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (74%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



737 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Write-Down Is Planned At Merrill

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Only 10 days after stunning Wall Street with a huge quarterly loss, Merrill Lynch unexpectedly disclosed another multibillion-dollar write-down on Monday and sought to bolster its finances once again by selling new stock to the public and to an investment company controlled by Singapore. 
 Moving to purge itself of the tricky mortgage-linked investments that have brought the once-proud firm to its knees, Merrill said that it had sold almost all of the troublesome investments, once valued at nearly $31 billion, at a fire-sale price of 22 cents on the dollar. 
 As a result, Merrill expects to record a write-down of $5.7 billion for the third quarter. Such an outcome could push Merrill into the red for a fifth consecutive quarter if revenue remains weak and would bring its charges since the credit crisis erupted last summer to more than $45 billion. 
 The problems at Merrill, the nation's largest brokerage, underscore how bankers and policy makers are struggling to contain the damage to the financial system and the broader economy caused by the collapse of housing-related debt. The latest news came on a day when the International Monetary Fund said there was no end in sight to the housing slump, a forecast that depressed financial shares as well as the broader market. 
 To shore up its finances, Merrill said it would raise $8.5 billion in new capital from common shareholders, including $3.4 billion from the investment arm of the Singapore government, Temasek Holdings, which, with an 8.85 percent stake as of June 30, is already Merrill's largest shareholder. Those shares and a conversion of preferred securities into common stock will dilute the value of stock held by current shareholders by about 40 percent. 
 John A. Thain, who has struggled to turn Merrill around since becoming chief executive in December, said the sale of the worrisome investments, known as collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s, was ''a significant milestone in our risk reduction efforts.''
 The C.D.O.'s have plunged in value over the last year, forcing Merrill to take one write-down after another and sapping investors' confidence. Merrill's share price fell 11.6 percent on Monday, before the news of the write-down and stock sale were announced after the close of trading. Merrill is trading near its lowest level in a decade.
 But the sale of the C.D.O.'s, to an investment fund based in Dallas, may enable Merrill to move on, investors said.
 ''What they sold, from a headline standpoint, is certainly constructive because they have reduced risk in a very sensitive area,'' said Thomas C. Priore, chief executive of Institutional Credit Partners, a $12 billion hedge fund and C.D.O. manager in New York. 
 Merrill had been working on the C.D.O. sale and the effort to raise capital before its earnings call but did not finalize the actions until recent days. 
 Merrill's sales could cause further write-downs at other Wall Street firms with C.D.O. exposure. If those companies -- the likes of Citigroup and Lehman Brothers -- have similar C.D.O.'s valued at prices higher than those at which Merrill sold, the firms may be forced to take additional charges to reflect the difference.
 Merrill recently moved to raise money by selling its 20 percent stake in Bloomberg L.P., the financial news and data company, for $4.425 billion. Mr. Thain hinted at the C.D.O. sale in the quarterly earnings call, in response to a question from Meredith Whitney, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company.
 ''Why not, at this point, be the first to purge assets and get it over with? And, if that means raising capital, raise capital,'' Ms. Whitney said.
 Mr. Thain responded that Merrill had been selling assets but had not yet sold any C.D.O.'s.
 ''Your question is a very leading one, and that would certainly be something that we would hope that we could do,'' Mr. Thain said.
 Merrill sold the investments at a steep loss. The United States super senior asset backed-security C.D.O.'s that Merrill sold were once valued at $30.6 billion. As of the end of second-quarter, Merrill valued them at $11.1 billion -- or 36 cents on the dollar. And Merrill sold them for $6.7 billion to an affiliate of Lone Star Funds, the Dallas private equity firm. 
 Merrill provided 75 percent financing to Lone Star Funds, which means Merrill lent the private equity fund about $5 billion to complete the sale. 
 The discounted sales will cause the majority of Merrill's write-down in the third quarter. 
 Merrill also said it had settled a battle with the reinsurance company XL Capital Assurance, which had insured some of the firm's C.D.O.'s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); COMMON STOCK (89%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (87%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); HOME PRICES (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



738 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Cuts Jobs as Part of a Production Curb

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors will eliminate shifts at two truck plants and lay off 1,760 workers to further reduce production of slow-selling pickups and sport utility vehicles.
 G.M. said Monday that it would cut production of 117,000 pickups and S.U.V.'s as part of a larger effort to trim its North American manufacturing capacity by 300,000 vehicles by next year.
 The moves were expected, as G.M. and other automakers continue to cope with the drastic shift in consumers' taste to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 G.M., the biggest American automaker, said it would cut shifts at assembly plants in Moraine, Ohio, and Shreveport, La., and slow production at two other factories, one in Mexico and the other in Indiana.
 The company also said it would idle several other assembly plants for various periods to address the shrinking demand for pickups and S.U.V.'s.
 ''We continue to analyze the market and our production of trucks and S.U.V.'s,'' Tony Sapienza, a G.M. spokesman, said. ''These actions are a direct result of the market shift by consumers.''
 Rising gas prices have devastated the market for large vehicles that were once the biggest source of profits for G.M. and its Detroit rivals, Ford Motor and Chrysler.
 Over all, United States vehicle sales were down 10 percent through June, and are headed for the lowest annual level in more than a decade.
 It's not just the troubled Detroit automakers that are feeling the impact, either.
 Toyota lowered its global sales target for this year to 9.5 million, from 9.85 million, on Monday, primarily because of slumping demand in the United States.
 The hardest hit segment has been truck-based vehicles. So far this year, sales of large pickups have fallen 25 percent. Sales of S.U.V.'s have dropped 32 percent.
 The downturn has spurred Ford to accelerate plans to shift much of its North American truck production to small cars.
 Last week, Ford reported an $8.7-billion loss in the second quarter, its largest quarterly loss ever, primarily because of write-downs of the value of its truck plants and pickups and S.U.V.'s coming off leases.
 The dwindling value of used trucks also prompted Chrysler's auto-lending arm to announce plans to eliminate all vehicle leases as of Aug. 1.
 Industry analysts have estimated that the value of used large S.U.V.'s was down as much as 27 percent from a year ago.
 ''Wholesale values of large S.U.V.'s and trucks have fallen dramatically, and that's certainly something that has not abated yet,'' said Tom Webb, chief economist for the Mannheim auto-auction company based in Atlanta.
 G.M. had already made plans to idle truck and S.U.V. plants for up to 12 weeks through the end of the year.
 The automaker, whose overall United States sales have fallen 16 percent in the first six months of the year, also recently introduced zero-interest, long-term loans to help increase demand.
 But analysts say the outlook for vehicle sales remains dismal for the foreseeable future.
 ''Nobody really knows if this thing has bottomed-out yet,'' David Healy of Burnham Securities said.
 G.M. said Monday that it would remove shifts on Sept. 29 at its Moraine plant, which makes midsize S.U.V.'s like the Chevrolet Trailblazer, and in Shreveport, which makes compact pickups and the Hummer H3.
 The company also plans to slow production at its truck plant in Silao, Mexico, and its Hummer factory in Mishawaka, Ind.
 G.M. said Monday that it would also schedule additional downtime at several other factories.
 Besides slashing truck production, G.M. has stepped up plans for broad cost cuts.
 The automaker's chairman, Rick Wagoner, said this month that G.M. would reduce its costs by $10 billion through a variety of actions including cutting the North American white-collar payroll by 20 percent and eliminating health care for salaried retirees beyond the age of 65.
 On Monday, the company introduced another cost-saving measure by reducing warranty terms on its Saab brand vehicles sold in the United States.
 The automaker will now offer four-year, 50,000-mile warranties rather than the five-year, 100,000-mile warranties attached to other G.M. vehicles.
 Saab will continue to be the only G.M. division to provide free scheduled maintenance for three years, or 36,000 miles, however.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Analysts say the outlook for vehicle demand remains weak. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); SALES PLAN (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (56%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (76%); MANNHEIM, GERMANY (58%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



739 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Apology Shines Light on Racial Schism in Medicine

BYLINE: By HARRIET A. WASHINGTON. 
Harriet A. Washington is the author of ''Medical Apartheid: The Dark History of Medical Experimentation on Black Americans from Colonial Times to the Present'' (Doubleday, 2007).

 BODY:
Organized medicine has long reflected that most American of obsessions: race. For well over a century, the American Medical Association has been the nation's largest and most powerful physicians' group -- and an overwhelmingly white one. Black physicians have their own, lesser-known group, the National Medical Association. 
 On July 10, a spotlight fell briefly on this schism. The A.M.A. made a rare public address to the N.M.A. to deliver an even rarer message: an apology to the nation's black physicians, citing a century of ''past wrongs.'' 
 What wrongs, exactly? Dr. W. Montague Cobb could have answered that question at length. 
 Dr. Cobb -- physician, physical anthropologist, civil rights activist, president of the National Medical Association in the 1960s -- knew that the organization owed its very formation to racial barriers. It was founded in 1895 after the A.M.A. refused to seat three African-American delegates at its annual meetings in 1870 and 1872. 
 He also knew that black patients and doctors were often relegated to subterranean ''colored'' or charity wards or banned from hospitals altogether; they had responded with their own hospitals and medical schools, at least seven of which existed in 1909.
 That year, the A.M.A. commissioned a well-known educator, Abraham Flexner, to visit and evaluate each North American medical school. His 1910 report, ''Medical Education in the United States and Canada,'' raised a further hurdle for black doctors: it recommended that all but two black medical schools -- Howard and Meharry -- be closed. Unable to attract financing, the others did close, and the number of black physicians predictably fell. 
 By 1938, the situation had grown so dire that Dr. Louis T. Wright of Harlem Hospital declared, ''The A.M.A. has demonstrated as much interest in the health of the Negro as Hitler has in the health of the Jew.''
 In 1963, when Dr. Cobb became president of the N.M.A., the United States had 5,000 black doctors out of 227,027 total. Although A.M.A. membership was often important to hospital practice, specialty training and professional achievement, many chapters and ''constituent societies'' -- medical groups that were the gatekeepers to the larger organization -- were closed to blacks. 
 And the A.M.A. repeatedly refused to force its constituent societies to admit blacks. In 1952, Dr. Martha Mendell, a white member of the Physicians Forum, a multiracial doctors group in New York, argued: ''The claim of the A.M.A. that it is powerless to correct this practice because of the 'autonomy' of its component societies is an evasion of its responsibility. Surely, if the Southern medical societies decided to admit chiropractors to membership, the A.M.A. would quickly find the means of redefining this autonomy.''
 Still, a smattering of influential black physicians did gain entree into the A.M.A. Doubtless heartened by that fact, in 1957 Dr. Cobb founded the Imhotep National Conference on Hospital Integration to forge a coalition between the medical associations. 
 The A.M.A. had eagerly joined the Imhotep initiative. But six years later, Dr. Cobb bitterly reflected that the association habitually absented itself from Imhotep meetings. What's more, the two medical groups increasingly found themselves on opposing sides of important antidiscrimination battles. As the National Medical Association campaigned for Medicare and Medicaid on behalf of its members' mostly black, often poor patients, Dr. Edward R. Annis of the A.M.A. censured both programs as ''socialized medicine.'' 
 Without A.M.A. support, black physicians like Dr. Hubert A. Eaton of Wilmington, N.C., brought federal lawsuits to gain entrance to all-white hospitals. 
 And despite promises to oppose language in the Hill-Burton hospital construction law validating ''separate but equal'' facilities, the A.M.A.'s response was desultory at best. 
 Dr. Cobb's patience was at an end, and perhaps his hand shook slightly -- from indignation, if not from fatigue -- as he responded in August 1963: 
 ''For seven years we have invited them to sit down with us and solve the problem. The high professional and economic levels of these bodies and the altruistic religious principles according to which they are supposed to operate seem to have meant nothing. By their refusal to confer they force action by crisis. And now events have passed beyond them. The initiative offered is no longer theirs to accept.'' 
 His declaration was prescient, for the black doctors and their white sympathizers won their civil rights battles. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 passed without active support from the A.M.A. Title VI of the act closed the Hill-Burton loophole: segregation within hospitals became illegal. Medicare passed in 1965. 
 But for African-American and other antisegregationist physicians, there remained a final bastion of racial exclusion to conquer: the A.M.A. To do so, these physicians resorted to the same strategies that had desegregated schools, lunch counters and monochromatic suburbs. 
 On June 19, 1963, the association had held its 112th annual convention in Atlantic City's stately Traymore Hotel. As Dr. Annis descended from the ballroom lectern after delivering his presidential address, he was surprised to be met on the steps by Dr. John L. S. Holloman, an African-American A.M.A. member from New York City, who handed him a letter demanding that the A.M.A. remove all racial barriers to membership.
 When it became clear that Dr. Annis had no intention of reading or responding to it before the assembled doctors, Dr. Holloman turned on his heel and left the ballroom to join 20 black and white physicians picketing outside. Reporters thronged the A.M.A. officers throughout the convention, clamoring to know why physicians were picketing the association as a racist organization. 
 These scenes of public protest and picketing continued until 1968, when the A.M.A. finally amended its constitution and bylaws to punish racial discrimination by permitting the expulsion of constituent societies. 
 Warmer relations ensued between the medical societies, and although a 1973 effort to amalgamate them failed, they did form the lasting liaison of which W. Montague Cobb had dreamed. Their more fruitful joint efforts include the 1992 creation of the Minority Affairs Consortium, and in 2004 the Commission to End Healthcare Disparities. In 1994, Dr. Lonnie Bristow became the first African-American president of the A.M.A. 
 Yet reminders of this rancorous history persist, and the A.M.A.'s apology remains pertinent, if long overdue. Consider this statistic: In 1910, when Abraham Flexner published his report on medical education, African-Americans made up 2.5 percent of the number of physicians in the United States. Today, they make up 2.2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHYSICIANS DIVIDED: Dr. W. Montague Cobb, president of the National Medical Association in the 1960s, teaching anatomical comparison, above left.(PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF HOWARD UNIVERSITY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); CHIROPRACTIC (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



740 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Airfares on Sale Now, So Act Fast

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
AIRFARES may be escalating at an alarming rate, with more increases expected later in the year, but in recent weeks some airlines have actually begun to reduce rates on certain routes in an attempt to bolster demand. 
 American Airlines and its regional affiliate, American Eagle, have been offering some surprisingly low fares to the Caribbean, the Bahamas, Mexico and Bermuda in a sale that ends on Thursday. The deals, which are good for travel between Sept. 2 and Dec. 10, include round-trip tickets as low as $152 from Miami to Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago; $178 from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., to Kingston, Jamaica; and $246 from New York to Bermuda, not including taxes and fees. 
 On Monday, JetBlue announced its annual fall sale, with one-way fares as low as $79 between Austin, Tex., and Fort Lauderdale; $109 between Boston and Chicago; and $169 between Long Beach, Calif., and Washington. Most of the sales, though, are out of Kennedy Airport in New York, including one-way fares from $149 to Denver; $155 to Cancun; $59 to Charlotte, N.C.; and $159 to Las Vegas. 
 Also, just last week, Air France extended the book-by date of a late-summer and early-fall sale to Europe to Aug. 5. Round-trip fares include New York to Paris from $628, Philadelphia to Madrid from $706 and Boston to Prague from $720, including fuel surcharges, but not taxes and security fees. 
 The best bargains tend to be found midweek and come with restrictions. American's sale doesn't include the Thanksgiving holiday period, Nov. 22 to 30, for example, and it requires a two-day minimum stay. Air France is limiting its deals to departures between Sept. 1 and Oct. 29 with a Saturday night stay requirement. The JetBlue deals require a seven-day advance purchase and must be booked by Aug. 6. Travel to the Northeast and Florida must take place between Sept. 3 and Dec. 17, while travel to the Caribbean, Mexico and Western states must be between Aug. 11 and Nov. 1. Although these may not be rock-bottom deals, the sales are significantly better than some of the lofty prices travelers have been facing this summer. They also may be a signal that consumers have reached a limit in terms of how much they're willing to pay in price hikes. 
 ''I think the writing's on the wall that the economy is pretty soft.'' said Tom Parsons, chief executive of Bestfares.com, a discount travel Web site that tracks airfare changes. ''And travel is a very discretionary item.'' 
 Despite capacity cuts, Mr. Parsons said he expected to see more deals to leisure destinations like the Caribbean, Mexico and Florida after Aug. 15, when children begin to go back to school and family travel starts to wane. ''As we go into the fall,'' he said, ''airlines will be begging for people to get on the planes.'' He is especially keeping his eye on Southwest Airlines, which he says hasn't had a systemwide sale since Memorial Day weekend and is ready for one. 
 Don't expect to see deals over the holidays, though. Airfares are already ''double what we're paying between holidays,'' Mr. Parsons said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); THANKSGIVING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (78%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); BERMUDA (93%); BAHAMAS (91%); EUROPE (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAMAICA (79%); SPAIN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



741 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths RICHMOND, JULIUS B., M.D

 BODY:
 RICHMOND--Julius B., M.D. It is with profound sadness that the members of the Board of Trustees of the Flight Attendant Medical Research Institute (FAMRI) note the passing of our beloved friend, mentor and educator --Julius B. Richmond, M.D. --formerly Surgeon General of the United States. Dr. Richmond over his long, diversified and splendid career did as much as anyone to protect and improve the health of his fellow citizens, and in particular children and adolescents. From 1953 to 1965 Dr. Richmond was chairman and professor of the Department of Pediatrics at the State University of New York, SUN Y College of Medicine and became dean in 1965, serving in that capacity until 1970. In 1965 Dr. Richmond was appointed by President Johnson as the first national director of Project Head Start in the Office of Economic Opportunity. Head Start became a year-round program after the first summer; approximately 750,000 children are enrolled in Project Head Start each year in approximately 1,500 centers across the United States. Head Start is a comprehensive child development program. 
In 1971 Dr. Richmond was recruited by the Harvard Medical School where he became a professor of psychiatry and human development and chairman and professor of the Department of Social and Preventative Medicine. Simultaneously, he was appointed professor of public health in the School of Public Health at Harvard. While at Harvard, Dr. Richmond was honored to receive a presidential dual appointment as both Surgeon General and Assistant Secretary for Health. Both positions required senate confirmation. Dr. Richmond was the first individual ever selected to occupy both positions. He had the responsibility in the federal public health sector for some 50,000 employees. During his tenure as Surgeon General, Dr. Richmond focused on tobacco control efforts through the publication of the 1979 Surgeon Generals Report, presenting overwhelming scientific evidence of the multiple harms caused by smoking. Dr. Richmond has received a number of honorary degrees including ones from Yale and Harvard. He continued his professional activities as the John D. McCarthy Professor of Health Policy Emeritus, monitoring students and colleagues, right up until the last couple of months. He continued to teach and write, striving to shape health policies for health promotion and disease prevention, with a special emphasis on children and families as well as the low income population. Dr. Richmond was a brilliant, caring, hands-on pediatrician for nearly 70 years. In later years he took on the onerous task of continuing to educate the public by testifying in open court about the dangers of tobacco and how the industry had for decades manipulated scientific data. In doing so Dr. Richmond voluntarily subjected himself to many days of grueling cross-examination, and he did this while refusing to accept compensation as a skilled expert witness. As Chairman of FA MRI's Medical Advisory Board, Dr. Richmond was vital to the Board of Trustees in helping to direct over $200,000,000 in grants to some of the finest medical schools and research institutions in America and the world --including five Centers of Excellence. The scientific research is aimed at eradicating the diseases caused by exposure to second hand tobacco smoke, the money having resulted from a class action lawsuit filed on behalf of nonsmoking flight attendants against the tobacco industry. Dr. Richmond had one of the most extraordinary and productive careers in the history of American monitoring science and public education. His professional accomplishments were mirrored by his sterling character traits. His sense of humor was legendary as was his refusal to acknowledge his own importance. He was endlessly patient, civil, tolerant, incredibly well-informed and a true pleasure to be around. The members of the Board of Trustees of FA MRI are eternally grateful for the guidance of Dr. Richmond over the past decade as well as for the pure pleasure of his company and insights. Board of Trustees Flight Attendant Medical Research Institute Miami, Florida 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); WITNESSES (85%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EXPERT WITNESSES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SMOKING (76%); FAMILY (76%); PEDIATRICS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PSYCHIATRY (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



742 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Weather; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Agency in Massachusetts Is Stopping College Loans

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
The Massachusetts Educational Financing Authority, which secured more than $500 million in educational loans last year, announced Monday that it would not offer loans for the coming academic year. 
 The self-financing state authority, known as MEFA, was unable to secure financing for the 40,000 students it services, said Tom Graf, the authority's executive director, in a statement. The authority offers fixed-rate loans to students who live in Massachusetts or attend school there. 
 Mr. Graf said disruptions in the capital markets were why the financing authority could not obtain money. 
 ''While we continue to pursue every possible option, raising the necessary funds to offer fixed-interest rate private education loans is taking longer than originally projected and has become even more challenging,'' Mr. Graf said in the statement. ''As soon MEFA has secured funding, we will make education loans available. At this time, however, it remains unclear when MEFA will be able to resume its lending activities.'' 
 In April, the financing authority announced it would be unable to offer federal education loans because of the credit markets. In late June it said it would be able to offer private fixed-rate loans, but it now says that is no longer feasible. 
 ''It's really the capital markets. It's a global situation,'' said Jessica Belt, a MEFA spokeswoman. ''We're looking at other options. It's uncharted territory for everyone, not just MEFA.'' 
 MEFA set up a hot line, (800) 809-0571, for students. 
 Bernie Pekala, director of student financial strategies at Boston College, said many students there had MEFA loans. Mr. Pekala urged students and parents to contact their colleges and universities for help in finding other loans and if they had questions. 
 ''It's a large disappointment,'' said Mr. Pekala, who said most tuition bills were due in early August. ''It's timing, and its impact on families will be that they have more homework to do. They have less obvious choices right now. They're going to have to look at circumstances and try to come up with alternative financing options if they have utilized this as their main option or only option in the past.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2009



743 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Return Focus To Economy And Jobs

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Shifting the emphasis of his campaign back to the deteriorating economy after a weeklong trip abroad, Senator Barack Obama, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, met in Washington on Monday with a group of 20 prominent economists, former government officials and business and labor leaders to discuss problems like vanishing jobs and rising food and fuel costs.
 With the conventions of the two major parties just a month away, polls show that the economic slowdown is the issue most on the minds of Americans. Those surveys also indicate that voters have more confidence in Democrats than in Republicans to manage the downturn. Senator John McCain, Mr. Obama's probable Republican opponent, also focused on bread-and-butter issues Monday, visiting an oil field to promote expanded drilling as a way to lower fuel prices. 
 Mr. Obama's focus on jobs seemed intended to show his mastery of an issue of special concern to working-class voters, especially working-class whites in industrial swing states like Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania. During the Democratic primaries, those voters tended to support his main rival, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 ''The economic emergency is growing more severe,'' Mr. Obama said just before the afternoon meeting began. ''Jobs are down, wages are falling,'' and ''the financial markets threaten to be engaged in a protracted credit crunch with long-lasting ramifications.'' 
 ''I believe more action is going to be necessary,'' he added, ''so that entrepreneurship is encouraged, so that the market is thriving, so that hard work is rewarded.'' 
 Even before the meeting began, however, Mr. McCain's surrogates and advisers were attacking both the meeting and Mr. Obama's prescription for the nation's economic ills. As they did last week while Mr. Obama was abroad, they accused him of grandstanding, and said he was granting too big a role to government and too small a one to private initiative. 
 ''The American people are getting treated to yet another photo op by Barack Obama today,'' said Carleton S. Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard chief executive and one of Mr. McCain's economic advisers. ''Meanwhile, John McCain has been out talking about the economy, understanding the economy, taking advice on the economy for many many months.'' 
 Participants in Mr. Obama's meeting included prominent Democratic figures like Robert E. Rubin, President Bill Clinton's Treasury secretary; Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman who was appointed by President Jimmy Carter; and Warren Buffett. But two people who served under President Bush during his first term also attended: Paul H. O'Neill, the former Treasury secretary, and William H. Donaldson, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 Laura Tyson, a chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Mr. Clinton, described the meeting as ''lively and wide-ranging,'' with ''some significant differences among Democrats,'' rather than a strictly partisan divide, regarding policies Mr. Obama should pursue. Ms. Tyson said the agenda included immediate concerns, including whether a second economic stimulus package was needed, as well as ''long-term structural issues in the economy,'' like energy independence and health care. 
 Employment and related issues are an area where the differences between Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama are especially sharp. Republicans argue that the government needs to avoid ''getting in the way of job creation or growth,'' in Ms. Fiorina's words, while Mr. Obama has talked favorably about government-led initiatives, like rebuilding infrastructure and encouraging investment in alternative energy sources. 
 Both camps talk of policies to stimulate small businesses as the main engine of economic growth and job creation. But Martin Feldstein, a deficit hawk who was President Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser and now advises Mr. McCain, said Monday that ''Obama's plan will slow the economy, will depress the economy'' because he wants to let the Bush administration's tax cuts expire. Those cuts have primarily benefited the wealthiest segment of the population. 
 In the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted July 7-14, more than half of the people surveyed cited an economic issue as the most important problem facing the country, compared with 7 percent before the 2006 midterm elections in which Democrats won control of Congress. The war in Iraq, which Mr. McCain has made the centerpiece of his campaign, was cited by just 13 percent of those polled as the issue of paramount concern to them. 
 In addition, 51 percent of those polled said Democrats were more likely than Republicans to ensure a strong economy. That suggests a strong liability for Mr. McCain, as only one in five voters approve of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy and 6 in 10 said they expected Mr. McCain to generally continue his predecessor's policies if elected. 
 Mr. McCain has compounded those problems with statements like, ''the issue of economics is not something I've understood as well as I should.'' But his surrogates argued Monday that he did have the economic knowledge to go with his experience in foreign policy and national security, and that Mr. Obama was deficient in all of those areas. 
 ''From my perspective,'' Ms. Fiorina said, none of Mr. Obama's proposals ''suggest to me an understanding of how the economy really works.'' 
 She added, ''I think it is good that Barack Obama is consulting some experts today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama met in Washington on Monday with an economic panel that included Lawrence H. Summers, left, and Robert B. Reich.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (83%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



744 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Can Obama Run the Offense?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Let's see if I've got this straight. Barack Obama is a United States senator, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and his party's candidate for president of the United States -- and yet it was somehow presumptuous of him to meet with foreign leaders last week during his trip to the Middle East and Europe.
 I'll say this about Senator Obama. He sure raises people's hackles. I've never seen anyone so roundly criticized for such grievous offenses as giving excellent speeches and urging people of different backgrounds to take a chance on working together. How dare he? And 200,000 people turned out to hear him in Berlin. Unforgivable. 
 The man has been taken to task for promoting hope, threatened with mutilation by Jesse Jackson for suggesting that a lot of black fathers could do better by their kids and had his patriotism called into question because he wants to wind down a war that most Americans would dearly love to be rid of.
 John McCain can barely stop himself from sputtering at the mere mention of Senator Obama's name. He actually ran an ad blaming Mr. Obama for high gasoline prices. Even Republicans had a good laugh at that one.
 And yet Mr. Obama continues to treat Senator McCain respectfully. As far as personal character is concerned, Mr. Obama has scored very well, indeed.
 What remains to be seen, now that the overseas tour is over, is whether Team Obama can play offense here at home and pile up enough points to win this election. Mr. McCain has been a surprisingly inept candidate (riding on a golf cart with Poppy Bush was almost as deadly an image as the helmeted Mike Dukakis bouncing around in a tank), but he has stayed within striking distance.
 And you can't trust any of the polls this year. I was in New Hampshire when the polls and the pundits said Mr. Obama was a lock to win that primary. He lost. And I was in California on Super Tuesday when the polls said he was closing fast. He wasn't.
 So this is not your ordinary election. Senator Obama will have to turn people on big-time just to win by a little. And for all the tedious talk about timelines and what the surge in Iraq has or has not accomplished, the top three issues in this campaign are still the economy, the economy and the economy.
 Americans are losing jobs, losing the equity in their homes, losing their retirement nest eggs, and tragically, in increasing numbers, actually losing the family home itself. This is the issue on which the Obama people should long since have pounced.
 A recent survey found that an overwhelming majority of Americans believe that the social contract of the 20th century -- in which the government, employers and the society as a whole pulled together to see that those who worked hard and played by the rules were afforded the basic necessities of daily life and a shot at the American dream -- ''appears to be unraveling.''
 Nearly 80 percent of those who responded to the survey, conducted for the Rockefeller Foundation and Time magazine, said they are facing greater financial risks now than in the past.
 This anxiety is pervasive, and it was clearly evident a little more than two weeks ago when Phil Gramm, then John McCain's key economic adviser, callously remarked that we were suffering from a ''mental recession'' and that the U.S. had become ''a nation of whiners.''
 The Obama crowd should have instantly seen the Gramm gaffe for what it was, a gift from the political gods. They should have run with it. I would have dragged out that old Maxine Brown song with the lyric: ''Maybe it's all in my mind.''
 The Democrats could have had some fun and made political hay, using the Gramm comments to highlight what has happened to working people under Republican rule. But the Obama folks let the matter drop, and instead of an endless loop of ''mental recession,'' what we've heard incessantly over the past couple of weeks has been Mr. McCain pounding on Mr. Obama about the surge.
 The word is that an economic offensive may finally be coming from the Obama campaign.
 Anna Burger, the secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union, was part of a wide-ranging group of advisers on economic issues who met with Mr. Obama in Washington on Monday. ''He has very serious policies, not sound bites, for addressing the long-term and short-term issues that are having such a dramatic effect on people who are working and trying to make ends meet,'' she said.
 Translating those ideas into a compelling economic narrative for his campaign -- something Mr. Obama has not yet done -- is the key to defeating John McCain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (51%); GASOLINE PRICES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JESSE JACKSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



745 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: White House Predicts Bush Will Leave $482 Billion Deficit

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Stephen Labaton contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House predicted Monday that President Bush would leave a record $482 billion deficit to his successor, a sobering turnabout in the nation's fiscal condition from 2001, when Mr. Bush took office after three consecutive years of budget surpluses.
 The worst may be yet to come. The deficit announced by Jim Nussle, the White House budget director, does not reflect the full cost of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the potential $50 billion cost of another economic stimulus package, or the possibility of steeper losses in tax revenues if individual income or corporate profits decline. 
 The new deficit numbers also do not account for any drains on the national treasury that might result from further declines in the housing market. 
 The White House forecast was prepared before passage of the huge housing assistance package that Mr. Bush has promised to sign. That legislation would put taxpayer money at risk in numerous ways, especially if housing prices continue to decline. 
 Mr. Nussle predicted Monday that the deficit would more than double in the current 2008 fiscal year -- to $389 billion, from $162 billion in 2007 -- before shooting up to $482 billion in the 2009 fiscal year, which begins in about two months.
 The deficit projected for 2009 would be the largest in absolute terms, easily surpassing the record of $413 billion in 2004. The White House and many economists prefer to measure the deficit as a share of the economy. The projected 2009 deficit would be 3.3 percent of the economy. That is the largest share since 2004, but well below the percentages recorded in the 1980s and early 1990s. In 1983, the deficit was 6 percent of the overall economy.
 The bleak outlook for the budget will crimp the ability of the next president to carry out ambitious spending plans. And it adds to fiscal pressures that were already building because of the growth of Medicare and Social Security.
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican presidential nomination, said the new report showed ''the dire fiscal condition of the federal government.''
 ''There is no more striking reminder of the need to reverse the profligate spending that has characterized this administration's fiscal policy,'' Mr. McCain said.
 Jason Furman, the economic policy director for the campaign of Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the presumptive Democratic nominee, said Mr. Obama would cut wasteful spending, close corporate tax loopholes and roll back tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, ''while making health care affordable and putting a middle-class tax cut in the pocket of 95 percent of workers and their families.'' 
 Mr. Furman said Mr. McCain was ''proposing to continue the same Bush economic policies that put our economy on this dangerous path.''
 The new estimate of the 2009 deficit was $74 billion higher than Mr. Bush and Mr. Nussle had predicted in the president's budget just six months ago.
 Mr. Nussle said the deterioration of the fiscal outlook resulted from ''a softening of the economy,'' and a reduction in anticipated revenue. He attacked Congressional Democrats, saying they had allowed spending to grow out of control.
 Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina and chairman of the House Budget Committee, said the new deficit figures confirmed ''the dismal legacy of the Bush administration.''
 ''Under its policies,'' Mr. Spratt said, ''the largest surpluses in history have been converted into the largest deficits in history.''
 The recently passed housing bill authorizes the Treasury Department to spend virtually unlimited amounts to rescue the nation's two mortgage finance giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, should they be at risk of collapse. The Congressional Budget Office estimated the new rescue authority could add a total of $25 billion to the deficit in the next two years.
 The budget office said there was a better than even chance the rescue authority would not be used, so there would be no cost. On the other hand, it said there was a 5 percent chance that one or both of the mortgage giants would need such assistance to cover as-yet-unrecognized losses greater than $100 billion.
 Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan budget watchdog group, said of the federal commitment: ''It may not cost anything. But if it costs a little bit, it may begin to cost a lot. You start to deal with market psychology here. It all adds up to a pretty scary picture.''
 On Monday, the Bush administration announced a new program that could reduce some of taxpayers' huge exposure to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and, at the same time, reduce the dominance of the companies. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said that four of the nation's largest banks had endorsed an administration effort to create a new market in a financial instrument that could be used to finance mortgages. The instrument, known as covered bonds, could provide a new source of cash for lending institutions.
 When Mr. Bush took office, he predicted that federal debt held by the public -- the amount borrowed by the government to pay for past deficits -- would shrink to just 8 percent of the gross domestic product in 2009. He now estimates that it will amount to 40 percent.
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said, ''President Bush will be remembered as the most fiscally irresponsible president in our nation's history.''
 Mr. Nussle bristled when asked about the Democrats' suggestion that Mr. Bush had transformed a surplus into deficit.
 ''There is much more to the book than the first page and the last page,'' Mr. Nussle said. ''There are many, many pages and chapters in between. Democrats seem to have not read all of them.''
 Mr. Nussle asserted that Mr. Bush had inherited a recession and had to make up for years of inadequate spending on the military, intelligence and homeland security under President Bill Clinton.
 The new White House report also includes these predictions:
 Total federal revenues will decline slightly from 2007 to 2008.
 In 2008 and in each of the next three years, corporate income tax collections will be lower than the amount collected in 2007.
 Federal spending will increase nearly 8 percent this year and then 6.5 percent in 2009. In 2009, federal spending will be equivalent to 21.1 percent of the economy, the largest share since 1993.
 The White House now predicts that the economy will grow 1.6 percent this year, after accounting for inflation, compared with its estimate of 2.7 percent in February. The estimate of growth for 2009 was also lowered, to 2.2 percent, from 3 percent. 
 Edward P. Lazear, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, pointed to oil prices as a culprit. ''Every time oil prices go up, it takes off some growth from our economy,'' Mr. Lazear said.
 Spending on some domestic programs -- like veterans' medical care, unemployment benefits and food and nutrition assistance -- is growing faster than in the comparable period last year.
 Another factor adding to the deficit is the distribution of tax rebates to individuals under the economic stimulus package signed into law by Mr. Bush in February. About $79 billion has been paid out through June.

GRAPHIC: CHART: While the federal budget deficit for the 2009 fiscal year is expected to reach nearly half a trillion dollars, as a share of G.D.P., it is still lower than many earlier deficits. Charts detail bar graphs for FEDERAL BUDGET DEFICIT OR SURPLUS
and AS A SHARE OF GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT. (Sources: Congressional Budget Office
White House Office of Management and Budget)
 Democrats John M. Spratt Jr., front, and Kent Conrad, have been critical of the Bush administration's budget policies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MEDICARE (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); TAX LAW (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); JIM NUSSLE (78%); KENT CONRAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



746 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: With Economy Sluggish, Governor and Mayor See Huge Deficits Ahead

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg warned on Monday of further deterioration in state and city finances, with each saying that he or his successor would have to grapple with huge budget deficits in the years ahead. 
 Both men appeared at a meeting of the State Financial Control Board, where Mr. Bloomberg and the New York City comptroller, William C. Thompson, said that the city's budget shortfall would balloon from $68 million in fiscal 2009 to more than $2 billion in 2010 and more than $5 billion the following year.
 But Mr. Bloomberg also said that the city was well prepared to endure a recession and the drop-off in tax revenue that is expected to follow mounting Wall Street losses and slowing real estate sales.
 ''The good news is, we know very well how to do this, and do it right,'' said Mr. Bloomberg, who sits on the Financial Control Board, along with the governor and other officials. ''We showed that in the way that we managed the city budgets during the recession that followed 9/11.'' 
 In remarks after the same meeting, Mr. Paterson said he would deliver a rare live televised speech at 5:10 p.m. on Tuesday to emphasize the precariousness of New York's financial position. 
 ''There will be no confusion about the gravity of the situation,'' said Mr. Paterson, who has been sounding the fiscal alarm repeatedly in recent months, as state budget officials began forecasting large budget gaps and a prolonged and deep recession in the state.
 Risa B. Heller, a Paterson spokeswoman, said that the governor would do more than merely warn of worse times ahead.
 ''The governor will put forth proposals to both get the state's fiscal house in order and ease the burden on New Yorkers,'' Ms. Heller said.
 The state budget office's last official estimates, issued in May, projected a $5 billion budget gap next year, increasing to $7.7 billion for 2010 and $8.8 billion for 2011, owing in large measure to layoffs and billions of dollars in losses at Wall Street firms, which account for a fifth of state tax revenue.
 An update to the state's financial plan will not be officially released until Wednesday, but most experts expect it to mirror the city's worsening fiscal picture. A report issued two weeks ago by Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state comptroller, showed tax receipts from businesses at $453 million below projections during the first quarter of the state's fiscal year, which Mr. DiNapoli called ''a strong signal that the state must spend with caution.''
 Mr. Paterson hinted that in warning New Yorkers on Tuesday night of the tough times ahead, he was also hoping to send a message to their elected officials. ''My concern is that people sitting in their homes already know what the pain is,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''I want to make sure that people in Albany understand as well.''
 The governor has so far taken only a few concrete steps to retrench state spending, mostly in areas under his direct control, like asking state agencies last spring to cut their planned spending. 
 The budget he signed earlier this year continued the Albany tradition of increasing spending at a rate faster than inflation, and months after suggesting that he would seek to reopen the budget for midyear spending cuts -- a step that could provoke confrontation with the Legislature -- Mr. Paterson has made no move to do so. 
 Tuesday's speech could be an opportunity for Mr. Paterson to declare a bold plan for fixing the state's finances and, in the process, carve out for himself a signature political issue, adding definition to what is still a largely unformed agenda. 
 If he presses the Legislature for more cuts, however, he will be negotiating an uncertain path with the new Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, rather than with his old friend and partner, Joseph L. Bruno, who retired from the Senate this month. 
 Mr. Paterson will also be faced with the possibility that his political future hinges on how well he handles the state's looming fiscal problems. 
 His potential opponents in the 2010 election include his fellow Democrat Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive; Mr. Bloomberg, an independent; and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican. All three have earned reputations among voters for fiscal probity.
 ''The state economy is in trouble, and he wants to get out in front of it,'' Douglas A. Muzzio, a political scientist at Baruch College, said of the governor. ''I think being fiscally prudent is always a wise thing to be, particularly so for him. This is his big test that he can both deliver the message and then deliver on the message.''
 Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative-leaning research group, praised Mr. Paterson for reining in agency spending but noted that much of the state's budget consisted of money that was funneled to local governments, like school aid.
 ''You can't address those without the Legislature,'' said Mr. McMahon. ''And the Legislature doesn't volunteer for gap-closing duty. Aside from stepping up his efforts to control state operations spending, is he going to implicate them in this? Is he actually going to challenge them to work on this? Otherwise, the speech is fairly predictable.''
 Tuesday's speech will be part of a weeklong drive by Mr. Paterson to focus attention on the state's fiscal situation and comes one day before budget officials release an updated picture of the state's balance sheet, with most experts expecting yet more bad news on the way. The New York Post reported on Monday that the governor would be delivering the speech.
 Last week the administration hinted at further cutbacks in state agency spending, with Mr. Paterson's budget director, Laura L. Anglin, asking agency officials to prioritize the programs they oversee, noting that ''many lower-priority programs may have to be eliminated.''
 And in recent weeks, Mr. Paterson has met with economic experts and former aides to Hugh L. Carey, who was governor during the 1970s fiscal crisis. On Monday, he also met with Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Columbia University professor and former chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers.
 Mr. Paterson's appearance Monday at the Financial Control Board meeting provided a telling symbolic backdrop. Mr. Carey and the Legislature created the board in 1975 to rescue the city from financial collapse, eventually ordering hundreds of millions of dollars in budget cuts and demanding the layoffs of thousands of city workers.
 Mr. Bloomberg, for his part, praised the governor for confronting the state's economic woes. ''The fact that David Paterson is willing to address the issue and understand that we're going to have problems I think is very encouraging,'' he said.
 But the mayor, who has battled repeatedly in Albany with municipal unions and their allies in the Legislature -- often losing -- said the real test for Mr. Paterson would be selling such restraint to lawmakers.
 ''Hopefully they have come to understand that the downturn has arrived,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson, at a Financial Control Board meeting on Monday, will speak on TV about budget problems on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LAYOFFS (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008



747 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: The Catholic Church and Birth Control

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Pope vs. the Pill,'' by John L. Allen Jr. (Op-Ed, July 27), on the Roman Catholic Church's continued commitment to the papal ban on birth control:
 The encyclical ''Humanae Vitae'' suffers from a profound lack of humanity. Forty years ago, Pope Paul VI could and did choose to disregard the recommendations he solicited from Catholic couples and physicians -- recommendations based on the real, human experience of marital love -- in issuing his mechanistic prohibition. 
 That a group of celibate men can continue to leverage the faith to enforce this ban, and continue to cause needless anguish among decent people throughout the world who want to do right by their religious belief, is no accomplishment. Terrence R. Connelly 
 Palo Alto, Calif., July 27, 2008
 The writer is a co-author of a book about the Vatican's efforts to purge priest professors who published disagreement with ''Humanae Vitae.''
 To the Editor:
 John L. Allen Jr. defends the Roman Catholic Church's opposition to birth control by asserting that the declining birth rate in Europe will ''rival the impact of the Black Death.'' 
 The loss of human life in the Black Death is cause for mourning, but in terms of economic impact, the period following the Black Death was one of prosperity and growth in Europe. 
 While the present decline in birth rates in Europe requires changes in long-term planning for an aging population, it also has benefits for society at large and is mitigated by migration and anticipated increase in child-bearing among young people just entering adulthood. 
 The old notion that economic growth requires population growth has been disproved. In Germany, for example, population began to decline between 2003 and 2006, but both personal and total G.D.P. continued to grow.
 Ultimately, decisions about having children should be freely made by couples. A proclamation from the 1968 United Nations Conference on Human Rights noted, ''Parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children.'' The state's needs should not be a factor. Religious teachings that ignore these human rights cannot be justified by either overpopulation or underpopulation. Frances Kissling 
 Washington, July 27, 2008
 The writer, a visiting scholar at the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, is a former president of Catholics for Choice.
 To the Editor:
 John L. Allen Jr. seems to think it is some kind of victory that the Roman Catholic Church's stand on contraceptives is still in effect after 40 years. 
 Yet during that time, more women throughout the world have gained control over their own reproduction and, as a result, their lives. 
 This has happened despite the all-out war waged against women's rights by the church and its co-thinkers in other branches of Christianity. May they have more such victories. Linda Mann 
 Minneapolis, July 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 There is another point to be added to John L. Allen Jr.'s survey of the debate about Catholics and birth control: the modest but growing enthusiasm for ''Humanae Vitae'' among younger grass-roots Christians.
 I teach theology, marriage and sex at Villanova University. Generally speaking, once my students actually read ''Humanae Vitae,'' they find it to be persuasive and beautiful. 
 Speaking personally, there are people in my family who were once liberal Catholics and dissented from the birth control prohibition. But as we read the theology, and as we thought more about the environmental movement, slow food and organics, it just seemed to make more and more sense to consider the rhythms of our own bodies and learn more about the actual science behind natural family planning. 
 To our surprise and delight, the science holds up, and we've seen how the pope's ''natural family'' approach engenders more family communication, patience and generosity -- virtues that are also not bad qualities for enhancing your sex life. Christopher C. Roberts 
 Philadelphia, July 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''Humanae Vitae,'' Pope Paul VI warned that artificial birth control ''could open wide the way for marital infidelity and a general lowering of moral standards.'' 
 Written 40 years ago, these papal words have proved to be prophetic.
 The constant insistence of the Roman Catholic Church that human sexual intercourse in marriage be the vehicle for human reproduction takes on new value in this age where cloning and every other kind of reproductive excrescence is promoted under the name of ''science.''
 Richard H. Escobales Jr.
 Buffalo, July 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In discussing the Roman Catholic Church's stance against contraception, John L. Allen Jr. states that the argument of John Paul II, in brief, ''was that human sexuality is an image of the creative love among the three persons of the Trinity, as well as God's love for humanity.''
 The late pope, writes Mr. Allen, argued that ''birth control 'changes the language' of sexuality, because it prevents life-giving love.''
 Perhaps the ban on birth control provoked widespread dissent because there is another powerful love in conflict with this ruling: a mother's and a father's love for their children. 
 Responsible parents use contraception to delay and space pregnancies out of a deeply held desire to give their best attention, resources and opportunities to each child they bring into the world. 
 In the context of marital sexuality, the church's banning of contraception pits two drives against each other: the drive to be an obedient follower and the drive to be a good parent. Lisa L. Littman
 Bernardsville, N.J., July 28, 2008
 The writer is a medical doctor.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (93%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); WOMEN (75%); ETHICS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); AGING TRENDS (64%); BIOETHICS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); AGING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); HOLY SEE (79%); GERMANY (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



748 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: In Providence, Progress in Reviving an Urban Desert

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ABBOTT

DATELINE: PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

 BODY:
Vowing to bring back a section of Providence that has been strewn with enormous vacant factories and piles of industrial debris for more than 30 years, a Baltimore developer is creating a $300 million mixed-use development on 18.5 acres on the Woonasquatucket River, about a mile from the city's downtown. 
 Called the American Locomotive Company Works, or ALCO for short, after a factory that once produced trains there, the project is one of the largest in Providence's recent history. Using a combination of historic rehabilitation and new construction, ALCO envisions as many as 500 condominium and rental units and nearly two million square feet of commercial and retail space. 
 Construction began in 2006. The project is being built in phases over several years by Struever Brothers, Eccles & Rouse, a development company founded in 1974 that is known mainly for projects that transform urban areas. Its master plan depicts a bustling campus of thousands of people who will live, work and play in an area that has been mostly vacant for decades.
 ''It is a huge project,'' both in size and scope, said Eric Busch, development director for Struever Brothers, as he walked the site one recent breezy day. 
 The Valley neighborhood, site of the ALCO project, is a mix of narrow streets with aging two- and three-family houses and enormous old factories and mills. The Woonasquatucket flows south through the neighborhood to merge with the Moshassuck to form the Providence River and, eventually, Narragansett Bay. The city's historically Italian neighborhood, Federal Hill, and Smith Hill overlook the Valley, home to about 5,000 residents, according to the most recent census figures.
 Although the Valley neighborhood is now one of the poorest in this city, the ALCO site bustled with thousands of workers from the beginning of the 20th century through World War II. The most prominent factories were owned by U.S. Rubber and Rhode Island Locomotive Works, which later helped to form the American Locomotive Company. Providence was a leading industrial city, known for products like textiles, machine tools and jewelry.
 But one by one, as the industries dried up or moved, the factories closed; U.S. Rubber finally left Rhode Island in the early 1970s. 
 Since then, the ALCO site has been largely moribund; one of its 26 buildings housed some small businesses and artists, who have since moved with Struever's assistance, but there were no major employers on the site. ''At night, it was completely dark and abandoned,'' Mr. Busch said.
 Struever Brothers bought the property in 2006 from the Licht family of Rhode Island. Phase One, completed in early 2007, rehabilitated five historic buildings on the east end of the site to create 200,000 square feet of retail and office space. Forty to 50 percent of that space has been leased to nine tenants, including the state's economic development agency and a law firm, Mr. Busch said. The rest is being marketed to companies that need roughly 20,000 square feet, a size that is hard to find in downtown Providence, he said.
 The site went on the National Register of Historic Places in 2005. Struever then received state and federal historic tax credits for the rehabilitation.
 The centerpiece of Phase One is a red brick factory that dates back to 1885 and once housed the Rhode Island Locomotive Works. The company expanded to produce a luxury automobile, the Berliet, in the early 1900s. The cars were tested on a dirt track surrounding the factory, which Struever has restored into a pleasant concrete walkway. 
 Phase One also involved about $4 million in environmental cleanup, including the removal of a 10,000-gallon oil tank and asbestos removal. 
 Construction is scheduled to begin in the fall for the second phase, on the west side of the site, about 1,500 feet from Phase One. It calls for rehabilitating two more historic buildings, one of which used to house a portion of U.S. Rubber, to create 124 rental apartments with a rooftop garden and 55,000 square feet of commercial space. 
 Working with city and state housing advocates, Struever has agreed to make 20 percent of the units ''work-force housing,'' priced for buyers whose incomes are from 80 to 120 percent of Providence's median annual household income, which is roughly $64,000. 
 The Struever master plan outlines six development phases, though that number is subject to change. The later stages call for more housing, a parking garage, more commercial space and infrastructure improvements along the Woonasquatucket River, including the construction of a new bridge. 
 Providence, which is New England's second-largest city after Boston, has experienced a burst of development in the last 20 years, changing the city's skyline and bringing new residents and workers downtown. This activity has included construction of an $80 million headquarters for the Gtech Corporation, a lottery equipment and services company; a $100 million addition to the Westin Providence Hotel, which includes a 32-story condominium tower; and the $80 million conversion of an old Masonic temple into the Renaissance Providence Hotel.
 The Valley neighborhood, by and large, has been left out because its developable land needed substantial cleanup. That changed after the state and federal governments created historic credits programs that provided financing for developers like Struever to tackle the west side's vacant industrial sites. ''Struever wouldn't be here without the historic tax credit,'' said Thomas E. Deller, Providence's planning director.
 Today, Struever has seven projects under way in Rhode Island, including the $150 million conversion of an old Narragansett Electric power plant into a combined museum and hotel. The developer's total investment in the state is more than $500 million, according to the company's Web site.
 Before breaking ground on the ALCO project, the developer converted three old mill buildings in the Valley to rental housing, retail and commercial space and artists' living and working space. These projects have also retained the historic red brick facades. 
 Struever also plans to develop a 6.5-acre Valley site across the Woonasquatucket from the ALCO site as a mixed-use project. This is also on the National Register of Historic Places. That development, now in the planning stages, calls for reusing the plant of another defunct company, Nicholson File, which once employed 1,200 people making industrial files and rasps.
 Not everyone has welcomed Struever's presence in the Valley. The nonprofit Olneyville Neighborhood Association, which says it represents residents in the Valley as well as the adjacent Olneyville neighborhood, maintains that longtime residents will not be able to afford the housing, nor will they be likely to find jobs on the ALCO site. ''The city is promoting development that doesn't meet the needs of the people,'' said Michael Wojcicki, a spokesman for the group. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Top, an old factory made into retail and office space, with space for an atrium, at left. Below, Eric Busch, development director, with the overall design for the project.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEW MILNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); TEXTILES (64%); CENSUS (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: STRUEVER BROTHERS ECCLES & ROUSE INC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (95%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



749 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 978 words

PERSON: Dr. Julius B. Richmond 

HEADLINE: Dr. Julius B. Richmond Dies at 91; Led Head Start and Battled Tobacco

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Julius B. Richmond, a pediatrician whose work on cognitive development in poor children led to his being the first national director of Project Head Start, widely regarded as one of the most successful social programs of the last half-century, and who later as surgeon general was a fierce adversary of the tobacco industry, died on Sunday at his home in Chestnut Hill, Mass. He was 91.
The cause was cancer, said his son Charles. 
A natural and fierce advocate for public health, Dr. Richmond produced a 1979 report called ''Healthy People: The Surgeon General's Report on Health Promotion and Disease Prevention,'' setting out, for the first time, health objectives for the nation as a whole. A vigorous antismoking campaigner, Dr. Richmond produced another report as surgeon general that declared there was ''overwhelming proof'' that tobacco caused lung cancer.
The Head Start program, a triumph for advocates of early intervention in childhood, was a focal point of President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty and an extension of work by researchers like Dr. Richmond. In the late 1950s, he was chairman of the pediatric department at the State University of New York College of Medicine at Syracuse (now Upstate Medical University) when he and a colleague, Betty Caldwell, began studying the interactions of parents and very young children in poor families.
''We discovered that around 18 months there was a decline in cognitive function and responsiveness to adult guidance,'' Dr. Caldwell said in a telephone interview on Tuesday.
The two set about seeking the money to conduct an experiment with children, putting half into an early day care program. But the view at the time was that any separation of a mother and an infant was harmful, so they had to agree to study children already being cared for -- not necessarily well -- outside the home.
''All of a sudden we were running the first infant day care center in the United States,'' Dr. Caldwell said.
That was in the summer of 1964. By the beginning of 1965, the results led Sargent Shriver, President Johnson's newly appointed director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, to ask Dr. Richmond to oversee a new program, called Project Head Start, to provide preschoolers from poor families with educational day care. It was envisioned as an eight-week summer program with a few thousand participants. Dr. Richmond brought it to fruition in six months, staffed by thousands of volunteers serving more than half a million children. The program has now served more than 20 million children.
''He really was a giant figure on three separate fronts,'' said Allan M. Brandt, dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard and the author of ''The Cigarette Century: The Rise, Fall and Deadly Persistence of the Product That Defined America.'' ''First, he really got Head Start off and running. Second, in health care policy today, we think about benchmarking. Well, he began that process, setting clear quantitative markers we can use to assess public health programs, in anything from infant mortality to rates of smoking. The third major area is tobacco control.''
Julius Benjamin Richmond was born in Chicago on Sept. 26, 1916. He received his B.S. and M.D. degrees from the University of Illinois and was a flight surgeon in the Army Air Forces in World War II. Afterward, he taught pediatrics at his alma mater before moving to Syracuse.
In 1967, after his first stint in Washington, he returned to Syracuse, first to recuperate from tuberculosis, then to continue as dean of the medical faculty. In 1971, he moved to Harvard.
It was at the request of Joseph A. Califano Jr., the secretary of health, education and welfare under President Jimmy Carter, that Dr. Richmond returned to Washington as surgeon general and assistant secretary of health, a dual appointment he insisted on so he could be both a policy maker on health and a spokesman for the policy. He pushed for greater financing for children's health, initiated a campaign to curtail use of sleeping pills and approved marijuana pills for cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.
In 1979, he took a stand against the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which was preventing gay people from entering the country on the basis of a 1952 law that barred entry to those ''afflicted with psychopathic personality or sexual deviation or a mental defect.'' The law called for examinations by the Public Health Service. Dr. Richmond ordered the health service not to perform the examinations, noting that in his organization ''homosexuality will no longer be considered a 'mental disease or defect' '' and pointing out that homosexuality was not determined through medical testing.
In his 80s, he testified in two trials involving flight attendants that secondhand smoke was responsible for their ill health.
One of those cases, a class-action suit involving a flight attendant who developed lung cancer though she had never smoked, led to a $300 million settlement in 1997 that included starting a research institute to study tobacco-related diseases. In the second case, a class action on behalf of Florida smokers, a court awarded $145 billion in punitive damages against six tobacco companies, the largest such award in history until it was overturned by an appeals court.
Dr. Richmond's first wife, Rhee, to whom he was married for 47 years, died in 1985. In addition to his son Charles, of Indianapolis, he is survived by his wife, Jean Berger Richmond; a second son, Barry, of Bethesda, Md.; two stepsons, Steven Berger of West Lafayette, Ind., and Michael Berger of Detroit; four grandsons; and five stepgranddaughters.
''Julie would always say you can't accomplish anything without the public will behind it,'' Dr. Caldwell said. ''And you couldn't get that without large-scale projects that would make people pay attention. He thought big.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Julius B. Richmond, with an antismoking poster in 1977.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PEDIATRICS (90%); CHILD POVERTY (90%); CANCER (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); FAMILY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); LUNG CANCER (76%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Non-profit Organizations

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011



750 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Fall Again, but Rate of Decline Slows

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Two trouble spots in the economy showed little sign of improvement in the last few months, as home prices fell again in May and consumer confidence stagnated in July, according to a pair of reports issued Tuesday. 
 Home prices, already falling at the steepest rate in two decades, tumbled again in May, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index, a widely watched survey that measures prices in 20 major metropolitan areas. Prices were down 15.8 percent from May 2007, including a 0.9 percent one-month drop this May.
 The 10-city price index, which dates to 1988, dropped 16.9 percent for the year, its sharpest decline on record.
 All 20 cities measured by the index showed annual declines in home values, and 10 cities have suffered double-digit percentage declines in the last year. Miami and Las Vegas have fared the worst, with prices in each city dropping more than 28 percent since May 2007.
 There were some signs that the decline has started to abate. Prices in seven regions, including Boston, Dallas and Charlotte, N.C., improved in May, some for the second consecutive month. Boston, for example, was up 1.05 percent in May, though values are still 6.2 percent below where they were a year ago. 
 The report ''does seem to suggest the rate of decline of existing home prices is slowing,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote in a note. ''To be sure, prices are still falling very rapidly, and there is no prospect of any rebound this year and probably next, but a slower rate of fall is welcome nonetheless.''
 Las Vegas, Miami and Phoenix had the sharpest declines in home prices in the month of May, with Miami losing 3.6 percent. The city recorded a 28.3 percent price drop for the last 12 months. 
 Another month of falling home values may continue to put pressure on investors who are concerned the housing crisis is fueling the credit problems on Wall Street. Last week, a dip in sales of newly built homes helped lead to a sharp decline in the stock market. 
 In a separate report on Tuesday, the Conference Board, a private research group, said that Americans remained unhappy about the state of the economy in July, though their confidence did not change markedly from June. 
 The group's consumer confidence index rose to 51.9 from 51 in June, and a measure of expectations about the economy's prospects rose to 43 from 41.4. Those figures are historically very low.
 ''It is not a particularly good sign that consumer confidence and sentiment levels remain as low as they are, even after almost $100 billion of tax rebates have hit consumer's wallets in the past several months,'' Joshua Shapiro, the chief domestic economist at MFR, wrote in a note. 
 The Conference Board sends its questionnaire to 5,000 households.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As prices continue to fall, owners of homes like this one in North Aurora, Ill., are cutting prices.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HAYNES/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); CITIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



751 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Drilling In Afghanistan

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Sometimes in politics, particularly in campaigns, parties get wedded to slogans -- so wedded that no one stops to think about what they're saying, whether the reality has changed and what the implications would be if their bumper stickers really guided policy when they took office. Today, we have two examples of that: ''Democrats for Afghanistan'' and ''Republicans for offshore drilling.''
 Republicans have become so obsessed with the notion that we can drill our way out of our current energy crisis that re-opening our coastal waters to offshore drilling has become their answer for every energy question. 
 Anyone who looks at the growth of middle classes around the world and their rising demands for natural resources, plus the dangers of climate change driven by our addiction to fossil fuels, can see that clean renewable energy -- wind, solar, nuclear and stuff we haven't yet invented -- is going to be the next great global industry. It has to be if we are going to grow in a stable way. 
 Therefore, the country that most owns the clean power industry is going to most own the next great technology breakthrough -- the E.T. revolution, the energy technology revolution -- and create millions of jobs and thousands of new businesses, just like the I.T. revolution did.
 Republicans, by mindlessly repeating their offshore-drilling mantra, focusing on a 19th-century fuel, remind me of someone back in 1980 arguing that we should be putting all our money into making more and cheaper IBM Selectric typewriters -- and forget about these things called the ''PC'' and ''the Internet.'' It is a strategy for making America a second-rate power and economy.
 But Democrats have their analog. For many Democrats, Afghanistan was always the ''good war,'' as opposed to Iraq. I think Barack Obama needs to ask himself honestly: ''Am I for sending more troops to Afghanistan because I really think we can win there, because I really think that that will bring an end to terrorism, or am I just doing it because to get elected in America, post-9/11, I have to be for winning some war?''
 The truth is that Iraq, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon and Pakistan are just different fronts in the same war. The core problem is that the Arab-Muslim world in too many places has been failing at modernity, and were it not for $120-a-barrel oil, that failure would be even more obvious. For far too long, this region has been dominated by authoritarian politics, massive youth unemployment, outdated education systems, a religious establishment resisting reform and now a death cult that glorifies young people committing suicide, often against other Muslims. 
 The humiliation this cocktail produces is the real source of terrorism. Saddam exploited it. Al Qaeda exploits it. Pakistan's intelligence services exploit it. Hezbollah exploits it. The Taliban exploit it.
 The only way to address it is by changing the politics. Producing islands of decent and consensual government in Baghdad or Kabul or Islamabad would be a much more meaningful and lasting contribution to the war on terrorism than even killing bin Laden in his cave. But it needs local partners. The reason the surge helped in Iraq is because Iraqis took the lead in confronting their own extremists -- the Shiites in their areas, the Sunnis in theirs. That is very good news -- although it is still not clear that they can come together in a single functioning government. 
 The main reason we are losing in Afghanistan is not because there are too few American soldiers, but because there are not enough Afghans ready to fight and die for the kind of government we want.
 Take 20 minutes and read the stunning article in last Sunday's New York Times Magazine by Thomas Schweich, a former top Bush counternarcotics official focused on Afghanistan, and dwell on his paragraph on Afghan President Hamid Karzai:
 ''Karzai was playing us like a fiddle: The U.S. would spend billions of dollars on infrastructure improvement; the U.S. and its allies would fight the Taliban; Karzai's friends could get rich off the drug trade; he could blame the West for his problems; and in 2009, he would be elected to a new term.''
 Then read the Afghan expert Rory Stewart's July 17 Time magazine cover story from Kabul: ''A troop increase is likely to inflame Afghan nationalism because Afghans are more anti-foreign than we acknowledge, and the support for our presence in the insurgency areas is declining ... The more responsibility we take in Afghanistan, the more we undermine the credibility and responsibility of the Afghan government and encourage it to act irresponsibly. Our claims that Afghanistan is the 'front line in the war on terror' and that 'failure is not an option' have convinced the Afghan government that we need it more than it needs us. The worse things become, the more assistance it seems to receive. This is not an incentive to reform.''
 Before Democrats adopt ''More Troops to Afghanistan'' as their bumper sticker, they need to make sure it's a strategy for winning a war -- not an election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); WIND ENERGY (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); RELIGION (63%); CULTS & SECTS (61%); TERRORISM (60%); TEEN SUICIDE (60%); COASTAL AREAS (55%); SUICIDE (50%); PERSONAL FINANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



752 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Sundance) ON THE ROAD IN AMERICA Ali (above in New York), Sanad, Mohamad and Lara discuss their experiences at the Esalen Center in Big Sur, Calif., about relations between the United States and the Mideast.
 7 A.M. (ABC) GOOD MORNING AMERICAKevin Costner talks about starring in and producing ''Swing Vote,'' in which he plays a beer-guzzling single father who will cast the deciding vote in a presidential election. Mr. Costner moves over to ''Live With Regis and Kelly'' on ABC at 9. 
 8 P.M. (Travel) SAMANTHA BROWN: PASSPORT TO CHINA The journey continues in Xian, with stops at the Xian City Wall, the Big Goose Pagoda and Night Fountain Show, De Fan Chang Dumpling Restaurant and the Terra-Cotta Warriors Museum and Factory.
 9 P.M. (CNBC) MADE IN CHINA: THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF PROFITS With 1.3 billion people, China is home to the largest population in the world. And with an economy that has grown nearly 10 percent a year for the last decade -- producing more than 400,000 millionaires and billionaires, second in number only to the United States -- the country has become the ultimate market for businesses. In this hourlong special Melissa Lee interviews some of the young entrepreneurs helping to fuel China's growth and examines how American companies like Home Depot, Kraft and Yum Brands are blazing trails of their own there.
 9 P.M. (NBC) THE BABY BORROWERS The season ends by bringing the teenage couples full circle as they care for elderly people with varying mobility and ailments. And then the pretend parents (including Sean, near right) must reflect on what they've learned. An update at the end of the episode tells where each couple is now.
 9 P.M. (Fox) SO YOU THINK YOU CAN DANCE With only two weeks until the finale, the remaining six contestants perform.
 9 P.M. (13) NOVA SCIENCENOWNeil deGrasse Tyson follows NASA's coming mission to send a lander to Mars, where it will dig for water at the poles to investigate the planet's ability to support life. Other segments look at the 1962 paleontological dig in the Nebraska badlands that unearthed two complete male mammoths locked by their 12-foot-long tusks; and Judah Folkman, the ''cancer warrior.''
 9 P.M. (Bravo) PROJECT RUNWAY Last week Suede was anointed the winner after the guest judge Natalie Portman fell in love with his tutued cocktail dress. Wesley and his crumpled brown satin disaster were ''aufed.'' This week the designers have to use New York City as their muse. The guest judge Sandra Bernhard will no doubt have a thing or two to say about the results.
 10 P.M. (MTV) RUN'S HOUSE Rev Run comes up with an unusual incentive for his children to raise their grades. Meanwhile, Justine taps her creative streak, which is fine with Rev Run until she gives him a painting as a gift.
 10 P.M. (13) CLICK & CLACK'S AS THE WRENCH TURNS Click and Clack's business hits a pothole when a repair shop with sexy mechanics and a cappuccino bar opens nearby. (That's Clack at left.) Tom and Ray Magliozzi of NPR'S ''Car Talk'' lend their voices.
 10 P.M. (Bravo) SHEAR GENIUS Kate Jackson joins the show's host and her ''Charlie's Angels'' co-star Jaclyn Smith for this challenge, in which the stylists must reinvent the signature looks -- Farrah Fawcett hair, anyone? -- from that 1970s series.
 10 P.M. (Logo) SORDID LIVES: THE SERIES Brother Boy (Leslie Jordan) has his first session with his new therapist, Dr. Eve (Rosemary Alexander), after Tammy Wynette's ghost asks him to carry on her legacy. Meanwhile, the ex-con Bitsy Mae Harling (Olivia Newton-John) takes Peggy (Rue McClanahan) to the local bar.
 10 P.M. (TV Land) FAMILY FOREMAN George Foreman takes his family to a race after becoming a part owner of an IndyCar team, and his daughter Natalie, a k a Songbird, discovers that she'll be singing the national anthem before tens of thousands of spectators.
 10 P.M. (A&E) CRISS ANGEL MINDFREAK In this live episode a shackled Mr. Angel tries to escape to the roof of a Miami building, and into a waiting helicopter, before the building is imploded. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); FASHION DESIGN (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); AGING (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

COMPANY: YUM! BRANDS INC (54%)

TICKER: YUM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SHAANXI, CHINA (73%); MARS (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



753 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Iowans Washed Out of Homes Find Their Future Hard to Grasp

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa 

 BODY:
Seven weeks after this river town went under water in the biggest flood ever recorded here, city officials on Tuesday provided a first glimpse of their redevelopment plan to increasingly restless and frustrated residents, many thousands of whom remain displaced from the wreckage of their homes.
 In three information sessions, city officials and their consultants showed residents a framework for rebuilding that begins with public comment and culminates in a report to the state by the end of the year. 
 So far, specifics are few. City leaders called for ''sustainable'' neighborhoods, better transportation and reinvestment in downtown, but emphasized that they were still in the information-gathering stage of the plan, which will be shaped by how much federal money is available for long-term recovery. 
 The sessions did little to assuage the concerns of flood victims who say they do not know where -- or if -- they should rebuild. 
 ''What I wanted to know is, what do I do with my house?'' said Jan Chapman, a flooded resident. ''And I'm leaving without knowing what to do with my house. They are looking for our ideas about how to rebuild the city. I'd rather get out, frankly.''
 Many residents are hoping to relocate with the help of government grants for buyouts, similar to the federal program for New Orleans. The City Council says it will not be able to address that idea for at least a year because of the multiple levels of government and complexities involved. 
 For now, city leaders are telling residents not to assume that they will receive permanent relocation assistance. 
 ''We can't guarantee any buyouts or areas that would qualify for green space,'' said Councilman Chuck Wieneke. ''To come up with a plan, we've got to study a lot of things.''
 By the time the state presents the plan to the federal government and money is distributed, Mr. Wieneke said, ''it's a year and a half to two years down the road, which leaves many people I represent in what I can honestly call dire straits.''
 Cedar Rapids suffered more than $1 billion in damage from the flood, which soaked about 5,400 homes over nine square miles. 
 Some homeowners are bristling at the notion that they might rebuild, only to have their homes demolished by a redevelopment plan or flooded again. Many would prefer to move to higher ground now. 
 The city's flooded population is scattered around hotel rooms, temporary apartments and mobile homes, financed by temporary housing assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. (FEMA is not using the small travel trailers that caused health issues and other problems along the Gulf Coast.)
 Inside mobile home No. 31 at a trailer park in northeast Cedar Rapids, Kenneth Benning, 82, said: ''I am so disgusted I don't know where to begin. We're not getting direction. I know it's a heck of a job for the city, but you can't sit there and wait. We've got winter coming, and we don't even know if these trailers can withstand our kind of winter. The walls are pretty thin.''
 SanDee Skelton, a dance instructor who said she had never expected the water to reach her house, which was destroyed, described herself and those like her as being ''on hold.''
 ''Nobody quite knows what to do,'' Ms. Skelton said. ''I'm frustrated. I'd like to be somewhere I could unpack my bags.''
 Mr. Benning's house, built in 1910, is now just a shell on a cracked foundation in an old neighborhood near the Cedar River. The river crested at more than 31 feet in the second week of June after an unusually wet winter and cold early spring.
 ''We don't want to be forced to go back there,'' said Mr. Benning, a World War II veteran. ''The home cannot be put back together. The house was under water for 12 days, and now they want us to rebuild it? I say, forget it.''
 For now, the city guidelines recommend rebuilding for houses that can be saved for less than 50 percent of their pre-flood value. Mr. Benning's house was inspected and found to be at about a 49 percent loss. But three other estimates varied widely, with one calculated at much more than the house's value before the flood. 
 City officials said the timetable they were working with was appropriate, given the scope of the disaster.
 ''The public participation process is a key element, a tried and tested approach,'' said James Prosser, the city manager. ''This is about a very high level of transparency.''
 Mr. Prosser added that more specific information would be ready to present to the public by early September.
 To date, said a FEMA spokeswoman, Alexandra Kirin, $97.5 million has been approved for housing assistance in Iowa, and $11.4 million has been approved in assistance for other immediate needs.
 But Gov. Chet Culver, who convened a 15-member Rebuild Iowa Commission last month, said the state had sustained damage estimated at $10 billion, with some towns, like Palo and Parkersburg, seriously damaged or destroyed in the spring tornadoes and floods. 
 ''We're trying to make the case that this emergency is so serious that we're going to need swift Congressional action for the people of the Midwest,'' Mr. Culver said. ''We just can't wait.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thousands of residents displaced by the June flooding in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, are living in temporary housing and wondering whether to rebuild or relocate.
SANDEE SKELTON: A dance instructor who thought floodwater would never reach her home.
 KENNETH BENNING: A retiree who has received varying estimates of damage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); TRAILER PARKS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



754 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MOSCOW JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: In a River Raid, a Glimpse Of Russia's Criminal Elite

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
It is unclear why they gathered. A police statement said it was to discuss ''escalating problems of the criminal world.'' Some insiders spoke of a conflict between Moscow crime bosses and of a looming underworld war reminiscent of the bloody battles of a decade ago.
 Whatever the reason, when leaders of Russia's criminal elite convened on a yacht in the Moscow River recently, the police moved swiftly to stop the meeting. 
 In black masks, with weapons drawn, commandos pounced from a hovering helicopter onto the roof of the yacht, starting a media frenzy when they briefly detained 37 men known here as Vory v Zakone or ''thieves-in-law.''
 A Mafia-like caste forged in the Soviet gulag, the Vory v Zakone maintain a hallowed place in Russia's criminal lore, something akin to the notorious Five Families in the annals of New York crime. 
 Though the Vory's influence appears to have waned, Russians have long had an affinity for the group, perhaps because it has come to symbolize opposition to the country's often arbitrary political and legal practices, academics and other experts say.
 After the Soviet Union collapsed, the Vory v Zakone ''hit platinum,'' said Andrei D. Konstantinov, a journalist and novelist who has written about criminal subcultures. ''Everyone started to sing about this topic, to talk about it, to make television series, write books,'' he said. ''It became fashionable.'' 
 In the last 15 years the Vory have spread around the world, from Moscow to Madrid to Berlin and Brooklyn. They are involved in everything from petty theft to billion-dollar money laundering schemes, while also acting as unofficial jurists among conflicting Russian criminal factions. 
 Born of Stalin's prison camps, the Vory grew into criminal barons that kept order in the gulags and governed the dark gaps in Soviet life beyond the reach of the K.G.B. While the Communist Party held a steadfast grip on government and society, they had something of a monopoly on crime.
 With their own code of ethics, hierarchy and even language, they formed a society in opposition to rigid Soviet conformity, surviving on theft and black market dealing when not in prison. 
 When the Soviet Union fell, the Vory emerged from the broken country's peripheries to exploit the legal chaos. By all accounts, they infiltrated the top political and economic strata, while taking command of a burgeoning mafia that spread murderously through the post-Soviet countries.
 The Russian news media covered the raid on the yacht this month with apparent delight. The major channels showed scenes of commandos marching the handcuffed gangsters single file to waiting buses. 
 Most were later released for lack of evidence connecting them to a crime. The authorities did not explain why they had conducted the raid if they had no basis to bring charges against those detained.
 Some speculated that a major crime boss, Tariel Oniani, had organized the meeting to discuss a conflict with a rival don, Aslan Usoyan, known as Grandpa Hassan. The rift, reports said, threatened to erupt into a full-scale war. 
 ''There will be war and there will be blood,'' said the operator of vorvzakone.ru, an Internet portal that monitors the activities of the Vory. He insisted on anonymity because of the sensitive nature of his work. He said Mr. Oniani was at the meeting and detained, but not Mr. Usoyan.
 In an interview with the newspaper Vremya Novostei, ''Grandpa Hassan'' denied rumors of impending violence.
 ''We are peaceful people and don't bother anybody,'' he said. ''We are for peace, in order to prevent lawlessness.'' 
 In fact the Vory have been linked to numerous brutal murders in the post-Soviet period. Authorities have accused them of ordering contract killings and carrying out kidnappings and innumerable financial crimes. 
 To be inducted into the Vory's society involves a life devoted to crime, and, traditionally, an adherence to a strict ethical code, said Aleksandr I. Gurov, an expert on Vory who headed the organized crime units of the Soviet Interior Ministry and the K.G.B. He is now chairman of the commission on ethics in the Russian Parliament. 
 Compared with the Mafia in Italy, Mr. Gurov said, the Vory ''have less rules but more severe rules.'' 
 Vory must have no ties to the government, he said, meaning they cannot serve in the army or cooperate with officials while in prison. They must have served several jail sentences before they can qualify. They should not marry.
 Ethnicity has rarely determined whether someone can join the club. Today, Mr. Gurov said, most Vory, even those active inside Russia, are from other post-Soviet countries and are not ethnic Russians. Then there are the tattoos. Just as a Russian Orthodox icon depicts the pious works of saints, the elaborate tattoos that the Vory wear detail their criminal exploits. They also indicate rank and occupation. 
 In modern Russia the Vory have a certain allure, in part because of their association with prison life.
 ''Very many people have passed through prison, even those who have had no special connection to the criminal world,'' Mr. Konstantinov, the journalist, said. ''This is a theme that has been very relevant for many families.'' 
 This intimacy with imprisonment has spawned a pop culture particular to Russia, in which the Vory and other criminal elements have taken center stage. They recently went Hollywood, vividly portrayed in the film ''Eastern Promises,'' which won the top award at the Toronto International Film Festival last year. Mr. Konstantinov said the film was the most accurate depiction that he had seen. 
 Still, despite all the celebrity, the Vory no longer seem to wield the power they once did.
 According to criminologists, in the late 1980s and the 1990s, as capitalism seeped in, new criminal players entered the field. Mr. Gurov said that unlike most Vory, the top leaders of the newcomers were college-educated, and these new gangsters swarmed into the legal void left by the Soviet Union's collapse to snatch up lucrative shards of the shattered empire.
 At first this new criminal class worked in tandem with the Vory, who helped arbitrate the gang wars that bloodied the streets of Russia's major cities during the 1990s. In the last decade the Vory have suffered a declining influence, analysts generally say, as competitors with stronger ties to big business and the government squeezed them from their traditional niches.
 ''Vory are still strong in gambling and retail trade, but their significance in Russian economy and society is rather low,'' said Vadim Volkov, a professor at the European University at St. Petersburg, who has researched criminal societies in Russia and the former Soviet Union. 
 Estimates of their numbers in Russia vary. Rashid G. Nurgaliev, the Russian interior minister, said recently that just under 100 remain active on Russian territory today, though others dispute that count.
 ''This is just funny and does not correspond to reality,'' said Oleg B. Utitsin, editor of the crime section in the weekly Argumenty Nedely. ''No one knows how many there are, not even the Vory.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Russian news media had a field day with the arrest of 37 suspected mobsters by commandos. Most were later released. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NTV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); MISDEMEANORS (73%); EVIDENCE (72%); WRITERS (70%); ETHICS (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



755 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Blacks, If a Nation, Would Rank High on AIDS

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
If black America were a country, it would rank 16th in the world in the number of people living with the AIDS virus, the Black AIDS Institute, an advocacy group, reported Tuesday.
 The report, financed in part by the Ford Foundation and the Elton John AIDS Foundation, provides a startling new perspective on an epidemic that was first recognized in 1981.
 Nearly 600,000 African-Americans are living with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, and up to 30,000 are becoming infected each year. When adjusted for age, their death rate is two and a half times that of infected whites, the report said. Partly as a result, the hypothetical nation of black America would rank below 104 other countries in life expectancy. 
 Those and other disparities are ''staggering,'' said Dr. Kevin A. Fenton, who directs H.I.V. prevention efforts at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the federal agency responsible for tracking the epidemic in the United States. 
 ''It is a crisis that needs a new look at prevention,'' Dr. Fenton said.
 In a separate report on Tuesday, the United Nations painted a somewhat more optimistic picture of the worldwide AIDS epidemic, noting that fewer people are dying of the disease since its peak in the late 1990s and that more people are receiving antiretroviral drugs. 
 Nevertheless, the report found that progress remained uneven and that the future of the epidemic was uncertain. The report was issued in advance of the 17th International AIDS Conference, which begins this weekend in Mexico City.
 The gains are partly from the Bush administration's program to deliver drugs and preventive measures to people in countries highly affected by H.I.V. 
 The Black AIDS Institute took note of that program in criticizing the administration's efforts at home. The group said that more black Americans were living with the AIDS virus than the infected populations in Botswana, Ethiopia, Guyana, Haiti, Namibia, Rwanda or Vietnam -- 7 of the 15 countries that receive support from the administration's anti-AIDS program.
 The international effort is guided by a strategic plan, clear benchmarks like the prevention of seven million H.I.V. infections by 2010 and annual progress reports to Congress, the group said. By contrast, it went on, ''America itself has no strategic plan to combat its own epidemic.''
 In a telephone interview, Dr. Fenton said, ''We recognize this is a crisis, and clearly more can be done.''
 The institute, based in Los Angeles, describes itself as the only national H.I.V./AIDS study group focused exclusively on black people. Phill Wilson, the group's chief executive and an author of the report, said his group supported the government's international anti-AIDS program. But Mr. Wilson's report also said that ''American policy makers behave as if AIDS exists 'elsewhere' -- as if the AIDS problem has been effectively solved'' in this country.
 The group also chided the government for not reporting H.I.V. statistics to the United Nations for inclusion in its biannual report.
 Dr. Fenton said the C.D.C. had ensured that its data were forwarded to officials in the Department of Health and Human Services and was investigating why the data were not in the United Nations report.
 Others speaking for the agency said the answer would have to come from the State Department, which did not respond to an inquiry.
 Dr. Helene Gayle, president of CARE and a former director of H.I.V. prevention efforts at the disease control centers, told reporters on Tuesday that the United States needed to devote more resources to care for people with sexually transmitted diseases. Such infections can increase the risk of H.I.V. infection. 
 The federal government and communities needed to promote more testing among all people, particularly blacks, to detect H.I.V. infection in its earliest stages when treatment is more effective, Dr. Gayle said.
 Also, she said, more needed to be done to promote needle exchange programs, which have proved effective in preventing H.I.V. infection among injecting drug users but that are illegal in many places.
 The United Nations report said that in Rwanda and Zimbabwe, changes in sexual behavior had led to declines in the number of new H.I.V. infections.
 Condom use is increasing among young people with multiple partners in many countries and more young people are postponing their initial sexual intercourse before age 15.
 The percentage of pregnant women receiving antiretroviral drugs to prevent transmission of H.I.V. to their infants increased to 33 percent in 2007 from 14 percent in 2005. During the same period, the number of new infections among children fell to 370,000 from 410,000.
 The United Nations report affirmed treatment gains in Namibia, which increased treatment to 88 percent of the estimated need in 2007, from 1 percent in 2003; and in Cambodia, where the percentage rose to 67 in 2007 from 14 percent in 2004. Other countries with high treatment rates are Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Cuba and Laos.
 In most areas of the world, more women than men are receiving antiretroviral therapy, the report said.
 Despite inadequate monitoring systems in many countries, data suggest that most of the H.I.V. epidemics in the Caribbean appear to have stabilized. A few have declined in urban areas in the Dominican Republic and Haiti which have had the largest epidemics in the region.
 Increased treatment was partly responsible for a decline in AIDS-related deaths to an estimated 2 million in 2007 from 2.2 million in 2005.
 The AIDS epidemic has had less overall economic effect than earlier feared, the report said, but is having profound negative effects in industries and agriculture in high-prevalence countries.
 The United Nations has set 2015 as the year by which it hopes to reverse the epidemic. But even if the world achieved that goal, the report said, ''the epidemic would remain an overriding global challenge for decades.''
 To underscore the point, the United Nations said that for every two people who received treatment, five people became newly infected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); EPIDEMICS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NAMIBIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); MEXICO (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



756 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Restaurant Chains Close as Diners Reduce Spending

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Several national restaurant chains were shuttered on Tuesday, possibly offering an early taste of what's in store this year for businesses that depend on free-spending consumers whose budgets are now being squeezed.
 The parent company of Bennigan's, an Irish-themed bar and grill with about 200 sites across the country, filed for bankruptcy, a move that will put hundreds of employees out of work and leave many landlords with empty retail space during a painful time in the real estate market. 
 A sister brand, Steak & Ale, will also close. Franchise units of Bennigan's will remain open for now, a spokeswoman, Leah Templeton, wrote in an e-mail message. 
 The restaurants are the latest casualties in the so-called casual dining sector, considered a cut above fast food. Soaring food costs and a surfeit of locations have hurt the companies' bottom lines just as Americans are choosing to take more meals at home.
 The closings are ''something we're going to see more of over the next 6 to 12 months,'' said Amy Greene, a director at Avondale Partners who tracks the restaurant industry.
 ''The companies have been getting squeezed from all directions,'' Ms. Greene said. ''You have had minimum wage go up again, commodity prices continue to go up. We're in a softening consumer market where the consumer is less willing to accept the price increases than they might have been in the past. The companies are having to eat the cost difference.''
 Trips to the mall or the local tavern -- the casual outings that provide much of the business for midtier retailers -- are falling by the wayside, analysts said, as gas prices reach record highs and Americans tighten their household budgets. 
 ''Even folks for whom $3 gas is not necessarily a budget issue appear to be changing their behavior,'' said Bryan C. Elliott, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates. 
 Another hurdle facing these restaurants is their copycat nature. Though Bennigan's modeled itself as an Irish pub, its menu had Black Angus steaks, Southwestern-style appetizers and tempura shrimp, items that would not be unfamiliar to patrons of, say, T.G.I. Friday's or Ruby Tuesday.
 ''All these bar and grill concepts are very, very similar,'' said Bob Goldin, executive vice president of Technomic, a restaurant industry consulting group. ''They have the same kind of menu, decor, appeal,'' which makes it more difficult to establish brand loyalty among customers.
 The restaurant chains are owned by the Texas-based Metromedia Restaurant Group, a unit of a business conglomerate owned by the billionaire John Kluge. 
 The Ponderosa and Bonanza restaurants, which operate under another entity, Metromedia Steakhouses, were not covered in the bankruptcy.
 The pain has already spread to other corners of the retail sector. On Tuesday, Mervyn's, a midtier department store chain owned by a group of private equity firms, also filed for bankruptcy. The retailer, most of whose 176 stores were in California, had struggled for years, and the filing was widely expected this week.
 Mervyn's filed for a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, allowing it to remain in business while it reorganizes. This month, Steve & Barry's, a fashion retailer that started an ambitious expansion plan in recent years, also sought bankruptcy protection after finding itself in a credit squeeze after defaulting on a loan. 
 Other mall mainstays, like Linens 'n Things and Sharper Image, have also fallen victim to the economic pain, and retailers like Ann Taylor have said they will close hundreds of local stores. 
 The closings, especially of popular outlets that expanded quickly in the last few years, will leave commercial property owners in a tight spot, analysts said.
 ''It's not going to be easy to replace a tenant at this time, given the status of the industry,'' Mr. Goldin, of Technomic, said. ''It's much trickier when you have to retrofit the whole place to fit in another kind of retailer.'' 
 And Ms. Greene, of Avondale Partners, said that financing was also starting to dry up for ailing restaurant chains. ''Banks have become less willing to lend to restaurants and franchisees,'' she said. ''The business fundamentals just do not support it right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bennigan's is among the chains squeezed by high food costs and a shift in consumer spending habits. Its closing will cost hundreds of jobs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RODGER MALLISON/STAR-TELEGRAM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Liz Tavison, a bartender and manager at a Bennigan's restaurant in Lewisville, Tex., calling employees on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MAHONEY/THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (93%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); RETAILERS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BRANDING (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); THEME RESTAURANTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BRAND EQUITY (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (52%); RUBY TUESDAY INC (51%); HOMESTYLE DINING LLC (50%)

TICKER: RT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



757 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: OPEC 2.0

BYLINE: By TIM WU. 
Tim Wu is a professor at Columbia Law School and the co-author of ''Who Controls the Internet?''

 BODY:
AMERICANS today spend almost as much on bandwidth -- the capacity to move information -- as we do on energy. A family of four likely spends several hundred dollars a month on cellphones, cable television and Internet connections, which is about what we spend on gas and heating oil. 
 Just as the industrial revolution depended on oil and other energy sources, the information revolution is fueled by bandwidth. If we aren't careful, we're going to repeat the history of the oil industry by creating a bandwidth cartel. 
 Like energy, bandwidth is an essential economic input. You can't run an engine without gas, or a cellphone without bandwidth. Both are also resources controlled by a tight group of producers, whether oil companies and Middle Eastern nations or communications companies like AT&T, Comcast and Vodafone. That's why, as with energy, we need to develop alternative sources of bandwidth.
 Wired connections to the home -- cable and telephone lines -- are the major way that Americans move information. In the United States and in most of the world, a monopoly or duopoly controls the pipes that supply homes with information. These companies, primarily phone and cable companies, have a natural interest in controlling supplyto maintain price levels and extract maximum profit from their investments -- similar to how OPEC sets production quotas to guarantee high prices.
 But just as with oil, there are alternatives. Amsterdam and some cities in Utah have deployed their own fiber to carry bandwidth as a public utility. A future possibility is to buy your own fiber, the way you might buy a solar panel for your home. 
 Encouraging competition is another path, though not an easy one: most of the much-hyped competitors from earlier this decade, like businesses that would provide broadband Internet over power lines, are dead or moribund. But alternatives are important. Relying on monopoly producers for the transmission of information is a dangerous path.
 After physical wires, the other major way to move information is through the airwaves, a natural resource with enormous potential. But that potential is untapped because of a false scarcity created by bad government policy. 
 Our current approach is a command and control system dating from the 1920s. The federal government dictates exactly what licensees of the airwaves may do with their part of the spectrum. These Soviet-style rules create waste that is worthy of Brezhnev.
 Many ''owners'' of spectrum either hardly use the stuff or use it in highly inefficient ways. At any given moment, more than 90 percent of the nation's airwaves are empty. 
 The solution is to relax the overregulation of the airwaves and allow use of the wasted spaces. Anyone, so long as he or she complies with a few basic rules to avoid interference, could try to build a better Wi-Fi and become a broadband billionaire. These wireless entrepreneurs could one day liberate us from wires, cables and rising prices.
 Such technologies would not work perfectly right away, but over time clever entrepreneurs would find a way, if we gave them the chance. The Federal Communications Commission promised this kind of reform nearly a decade ago, but it continues to drag its heels.
 In an information economy, the supply and price of bandwidth matters, in the way that oil prices matter: not just for gas stations, but for the whole economy. 
 And that's why there is a pressing need to explore all alternative supplies of bandwidth before it is too late. Americans are as addicted to bandwidth as they are to oil. The first step is facing the problem. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); BROADBAND (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (58%); CCV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



758 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 95 words

HEADLINE: THE NETHERLANDS: AKZO'S PROFIT OFF

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Akzo Nobel, the world's largest maker of paints and industrial coatings, reported a 32 percent decline in second quarter earnings amid the weakening economy in the United States. Profit fell to 184 million euros ($290 million) from 270 million euros in the comparable period a year ago. Sales rose 44 percent, to 3.87 billion euros ($6.09 billion). In its decorative paints division, Akzo Nobel said its operations in the United States were hurt by the slowdown. At its performance coatings division, which sells paints for industrial use, sales increased by one percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTS & COATINGS (92%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EURO (87%)

COMPANY: AKZO NOBEL NV (93%)

TICKER: AKZA (AMS) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NETHERLANDS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



759 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Bright Sliver in Grim Economy As Energy Prices Take a Break

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD; Kate Galbraith contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The sharp drop in energy prices since the beginning of the month is turning into a rare bright spot in a bleak economic landscape.
 For the moment, at least, fears of a prolonged energy shock seem to have subsided a bit.
 Oil has fallen more than $23 a barrel, or 16 percent, since peaking on July 3. Gasoline has slipped below $4 a gallon and is dropping fast as Americans drive less. Natural gas prices, which had risen the fastest this year as traders anticipated a hot summer, have fallen 33 percent since the beginning of the month. 
 Crude oil prices extended their decline on Tuesday, falling 2.5 percent, to $122.19 a barrel, their lowest level since the beginning of May. This helped spur a broad rally in the stock market, with all major indexes rising more than 2 percent. But stock markets still remain close to the lows of earlier this month, when they officially entered bear-market territory.
 The declines in energy costs come after an equally sharp correction in the prices of many agricultural commodities like corn, wheat and rice, which took place a few weeks ago. These moves suggest to economists that global markets, in a near-panic early this year to find prices high enough to allocate scarce supplies, overshot the mark and bid prices too high.
 Commodity prices remain extraordinarily high by historical standards. Gasoline and particularly diesel remain especially costly despite the recent fall in crude oil prices, partly because of strong demand from emerging markets that continue to subsidize the retail sale of these fuels to consumers. But with the economy weakening amid a housing crisis and a credit squeeze that show few signs of improving, many traders have begun to believe demand for oil and other commodities will soften worldwide. Investors became net sellers in the oil market last week for the first time since mid-February 2007, according to Barclays Capital. 
 ''The market's expectations have changed very rapidly and unexpectedly,'' said Edward Morse, the chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers. ''The market went out of control on the upside. But market participants realized there was much more demand destruction than had been thought even a month ago, that inventories are building up quickly, and that, in fact, more supplies are coming onto the market.''
 As a result of looser market fundamentals, many analysts believe energy prices could keep falling through the end of the year. The president of the OPEC oil cartel, Chakib Khelil, said Tuesday that oil might drop as low as $70 a barrel. 
 Whether that actually happens will depend on the course of the American economy and its impact on the rest of the world. How long will the American slowdown last and what effect will it have on emerging markets like China, which have accounted for the bulk of the growth in oil demand? 
 Many experts warn that a hurricane hitting the oil-producing region of the Gulf Coast or renewed tensions in the Persian Gulf could easily push prices back up again, quickly.
 Only a few weeks ago, Israel conducted war games and Iran tested new missiles, renewing fears of a flare-up in the Middle East, and pushing oil prices to a record of $145.29 a barrel. The recent shift in American policy regarding Iran, with an emphasis on diplomacy, helped deflate some of the geopolitical risk premium that had been built into oil prices.
 ''The one piece of good news we've had recently has been the drop in oil prices,'' said Bernard Baumohl, the chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''But there is nothing that tells us with any certainty that this decline can be sustained. Just as abruptly as they have fallen, oil prices can rebound because of geopolitical factors.''
 Gasoline peaked at a nationwide average of $4.11 a gallon on July 17. Since then, retail gasoline prices have been falling briskly, to a nationwide average of $3.94 on Tuesday, according to AAA, the automobile group. Still, that is $1.05 a gallon higher than at the same time last year, when gasoline sold for $2.89 a gallon.
 Natural gas settled at $9.22 a thousand cubic feet on Tuesday, down from a high of about $13.58 at the beginning of the month, as a cooler-than-expected summer helped curb the use of gas to generate electricity. That has led to a build-up of commercial inventories. 
 The drop in oil prices has come as gasoline demand in the United States fell sharply in recent months, thanks to Americans cutting back on their driving. Gasoline consumption fell 3.6 percent in the week ending July 18, compared with the year-earlier period, according to the Energy Department. Americans drove 9.6 billion fewer miles in May compared with the same period last year, a 3.7 percent decline and the biggest-ever drop at that time of year, the Transportation Department said on Monday.
 ''People are waking up to the fact that prices have an impact on demand and that what happens in the U.S. gasoline market has a worldwide impact,'' said Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm. The United States is the world's largest oil consumer, and its gas market alone is bigger than the entire Chinese oil market, he said. 
 ''As a result of the economic slowdown and high prices, we've probably seen the peak in American gasoline demand, at least for some years,'' he said.
 Americans remain unhappy about the state of the economy. But consumer confidence rose slightly this month compared with last, according to a report released on Tuesday by the Conference Board, a private research group. That was mainly because of the declining gasoline prices, said Ian Shepherdson, the chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics. 
 One big question is what will happen to Chinese oil demand. 
 China has been the biggest driver of global energy demand in recent years, experts said. From 2000 to 2007, China's energy demand grew by 65 percent, contributing to a 12 percent jump in global oil demand. In that period, China accounted for a third of the total increase in oil consumption around the world. 
 This year, Chinese oil demand is expected to grow by 5.6 percent, thanks mostly to increases in gasoline and diesel consumption. This growth would account for nearly half of the rise in oil consumption worldwide, which is expected to reach nearly 900,000 barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency. 
 But that too may be changing, some economists said. 
 ''We have seen the economies of emerging countries, like China, India, and Brazil begin to slow down,'' Mr. Baumohl said. ''That should begin to soften the price of oil.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Americans are driving less and buying smaller cars, like this Smart car owned by Larry Syres, filling up in Palo Alto, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A12) CHARTS: CRUDE OIL and NATURAL GAS. Charts detail line graph for each. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CARTELS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); GRAIN MARKETS (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



760 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 363 words

 BODY:
TRADE TALKS FALL APART World trade talks collapsed in Geneva after seven years of negotiations, indicating that the ability of the United States to dictate policy is coming to an end. 
 A LITTLE GOOD ECONOMIC NEWS The price of crude oil has fallen more than $23 a barrel, or 16 percent, since peaking on July 3, providing some relatively good news at a time when the economic landscape has been pretty bleak. Some analysts say they believe the price of oil will continue to decline. [A1.]
 Home prices declined again in May and consumer confidence stayed the same in July, two new reports show. [C2.] 
 A NAGGING FLAW Internet service providers trying to fix a potentially dangerous flaw in the Internet have not been moving fast enough, according to the technical consultant who discovered the problem. [A1.] 
 SO LONG, SCRABULOUS The designers of the online game Scrabulous, a knockoff of the board game Scrabble, removed it from facebook.com in response to legal pressure from the makers of the Scrabble board game. Some fans of Scrabulous, meanwhile, are mighty upset. [C1.] 
 QUESTIONS AFTER WRITE-DOWN Wall Street analysts have begun assessing the implications of Merrill Lynch's sale of mortgage assets, wondering if other banks are likely to be hurt by similar investments. [C1.] 
 PENALTIES WILL REMAIN Because of improved prospects for the harvest this year, the Agriculture Department has decided it will not waive penalties for farmers planting crops on land set aside for conservation. [C1.]
 RESTAURANTS FILE BANKRUPTCY The restaurants Bennigan's and its sister, Steak & Ale, have declared bankruptcy, an omen that chains offering casual dining are headed for hard times. [C1.] 
 GROCERY MERGER ON HOLD The marriage of Whole Foods Market and Wild Oats Market has been delayed by a federal appeals court. [C3.]
 NEW ONLINE PAY SERVICEAmazon has unveiled a new payment system that will allow other online retailers to use the payment details already given to Amazon.com. [C5.] 
 A CHANGE AT KENNEDY The retail mix at Kennedy International Airport is changing, exemplified by JetBlue's new Terminal 5, which will have branches of well-known New York restaurants. [C6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BOARD GAMES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TOYS & GAMES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (69%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); AIRPORTS (61%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (55%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (53%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (52%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (53%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (52%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



761 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: AFTER 7 YEARS, TALKS COLLAPSE ON WORLD TRADE

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and MARK LANDLER; Stephen Castle reported from Geneva, and Mark Landler from Frankfurt.

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
World trade talks collapsed here on Tuesday after seven years of on-again, off-again negotiations, in the latest sign of India's and China's growing might on the world stage and the decreasing ability of the United States to impose its will globally.
 Pascal Lamy, director general of the World Trade Organization, could not bridge differences between a group of newly confident developing nations and established Western economic powers. In the end, too few of the real power brokers proved committed enough to make compromises necessary to deliver a deal. 
The failure appeared to end, for the near term at least, any hopes of a global deal to further open markets, cut farm subsidies and strengthen the international trading system. 
 ''It is a massive blow to confidence in the global economy,'' said Peter Power, spokesman for the European Commission. ''The confidence shot in the arm that we needed badly will not now happen.''
 After nine consecutive days of high-level talks, discussions reached an impasse when the United States, India and China refused to compromise over measures to protect farmers in developing countries from greater liberalization of trade.
 Supporters of the so-called Doha round of talks, which began in 2001, say a deal would have been a bulwark against protectionist sentiments that are likely to spread as economic growth falters in much of the world.
 The failure also delivers a blow to the credibility of the World Trade Organization, which sets and enforces the rules of international commerce. It could set back efforts to work out other multilateral agreements, including those intended to reduce the threat of global warming.
 The collapse of the talks will not bring an end to world trade, of course, which will continue under current agreements, many of which are between two or more countries rather than under the W.T.O. 
 But it is a big setback, particularly to the hopes of smaller and poorer developing countries, which were counting on gaining greater access to consumers in the United States, Europe and Japan.
 Economists and trade experts predicted that negotiators, having come this close, might not find the conditions for a broad deal among the 153 members of the trade organization for years, if ever again.
 Deep skepticism about the advantages of free trade was on vivid display during the Democratic primaries and it is growing in Europe, particularly as France, Italy and other countries have fallen into an American-style economic malaise. 
 ''It's important to move forward when the world is in a slowdown and is tempted to think of protectionism rather than opening up,'' said Norbert Walter, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank.
 He said soaring food prices provided another rare opportunity for a deal, since European and American farmers are prospering. It may never be easier to reduce farm subsidies, one of the most delicate issues in trade talks.
 ''The feeling went from 'Who cares?' to a surge of excitement and sense of breakthrough to 'Oh, no, not again,' '' said Rory Macrae, a partner at GPlus Europe, a communications consulting firm in Brussels, who was on the sidelines of the negotiations in Geneva.
 He said the sticking point this time was countries like China and India, which have become more aggressive in advancing their interests. ''Maybe they're now thinking, 'We're big enough that we don't even need the process,' '' Mr. Macrae said.
 Like the United States and Europe, he said, China and India might find it more advantageous to negotiate bilateral agreements in which they can apply more pressure on a single trading partner.
 On Tuesday night, ministers were still discussing whether any of the agreements reached in principle could be salvaged.
 But there seemed little prospect for that any time soon, in part because the presidential campaign in the United States will make it all but impossible for Washington to take part until a new administration takes over.
 Talks foundered on the right of India and other developing nations to protect sensitive agricultural products from competition in the event of a surge of imports that would make their own farmers less competitive. The United States argued that such protection, which is not permitted now, would mean moving backward on current world trade commitments.
 Mari Elka Pangestu, the Indonesian trade minister, said the failure of the talks reflected the inability of the rich industrial powers to deal with the growing influence of China, India and Brazil in the global economy.
 She complained that what she called ''a reasonable request'' had been blocked because the United States ''is not going to show flexibility.''
 Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, challenged assertions by some developing countries that the United States had been the chief obstacle to sewing up the deal. She added, ''The U.S. commitments remain on the table, awaiting reciprocal responses.''
 She said, ''It is unconscionable that we could have come out with an outcome that rolled the global trading system back not by one year or 5 years but by 30 years.''
 Ms. Schwab said it would be possible to help developing nations address surges in imports in ways that could not ''be used as a tool of blatant protectionism.''
 One official said that the relatively technical nature of the cause of the breakdown underlined a lack of political will to reach an agreement that would be a tough sell to voters in many countries.
 The Indian trade minister, Kamal Nath, in a briefing with reporters, said he was ''very disappointed'' but that developing countries were ''deeply concerned about issues which affected poor and subsistence farmers.''
 Washington's negotiating team was also under pressure from the country's powerful farm lobby, and the European Union was under pressure from its own.
 Lourdes Catrain, a trade partner at the law firm Hogan & Hartson, said the real danger created by failure after getting so close was ''that the seven years of hard negotiations will be lost and there will be no guarantees on the starting point of a future round.''
 The proliferation of bilateral deals and the continuing expansion of exports from both developing and developed countries have raised doubts among some Doha skeptics about the necessity of a global agreement. But experts said it was important, particularly as a bulwark against rising protectionist sentiments.
 ''There are people who argue that no Doha outcome is better than a weak Doha outcome, but I don't agree,'' said Katinka Barysch, the deputy director of the Center for European Reform in London. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan Schwab, right, the United States trade representative, after announcing that a deal reached on Friday had fallen through.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Kamal Nath of India said developing nations were concerned for their poor farmers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALVATORE Di NOLFI/EPA)(pg. A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); FOOD PRICES (61%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (50%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



762 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths RICHMOND, JULIUS B., M.D

 BODY:
 RICHMOND--Julius B., M.D. It is with profound sadness that the members of the Board of Trustees of the Flight Attendant Medical Research Institute (FAMRI) note the passing of our beloved friend, mentor and educator --Julius B. Richmond, M.D. --formerly Surgeon General of the United States. Dr. Richmond over his long, diversified and splendid career did as much as anyone to protect and improve the health of his fellow citizens, and in particular children and adolescents. From 1953 to 1965 Dr. Richmond was chairman and professor of the Department of Pediatrics at the State University of New York, SUNY College of Medicine and became dean in 1965, serving in that capacity until 1970. In 1965 Dr. Richmond was appointed by President Johnson as the first national director of Project Head Start in the Office of Economic Opportunity. Head Start became a year-round program after the first summer; approximately 750,000 children are enrolled in Project Head Start each year in approximately 1,500 centers across the United States. Head Start is a comprehensive child development program. 
In 1971 Dr. Richmond was recruited by the Harvard Medical School where he became a professor of psychiatry and human development and chairman and professor of the Department of Social and Preventative Medicine. Simultaneously, he was appointed professor of public health in the School of Public Health at Harvard. While at Harvard, Dr. Richmond was honored to receive a presidential dual appointment as both Surgeon General and Assistant Secretary for Health. Both positions required senate confirmation. Dr. Richmond was the first individual ever selected to occupy both positions. He had the responsibility in the federal public health sector for some 50,000 employees. During his tenure as Surgeon General, Dr. Richmond focused on tobacco control efforts through the publication of the 1979 Surgeon Generals Report, presenting overwhelming scientific evidence of the multiple harms caused by smoking. Dr. Richmond has received a number of honorary degrees including ones from Yale and Harvard. He continued his professional activities as the John D. McCarthy Professor of Health Policy Emeritus, monitoring students and colleagues, right up until the last couple of months. He continued to teach and write, striving to shape health policies for health promotion and disease prevention, with a special emphasis on children and families as well as the low income population. Dr. Richmond was a brilliant, caring, hands-on pediatrician for nearly 70 years. In later years he took on the onerous task of continuing to educate the public by testifying in open court about the dangers of tobacco and how the industry had for decades manipulated scientific data. In doing so Dr. Richmond voluntarily subjected himself to many days of grueling cross-examination, and he did this while refusing to accept compensation as a skilled expert witness. As Chairman of FA MRI's Medical Advisory Board, Dr. Richmond was vital to the Board of Trustees in helping to direct over $200,000,000 in grants to some of the finest medical schools and research institutions in America and the world --including five Centers of Excellence. The scientific research is aimed at eradicating the diseases caused by exposure to second hand tobacco smoke, the money having resulted from a class action lawsuit filed on behalf of nonsmoking flight attendants against the tobacco industry. Dr. Richmond had one of the most extraordinary and productive careers in the history of American monitoring science and public education. His professional accomplishments were mirrored by his sterling character traits. His sense of humor was legendary as was his refusal to acknowledge his own importance. He was endlessly patient, civil, tolerant, incredibly well-informed and a true pleasure to be around. The members of the Board of Trustees of FA MRI are eternally grateful for the guidance of Dr. Richmond over the past decade as well as for the pure pleasure of his company and insights. Board of Trustees Flight Attendant Medical Research Institute Miami, Florida 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); WITNESSES (85%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EXPERT WITNESSES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SMOKING (76%); FAMILY (76%); PEDIATRICS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PSYCHIATRY (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



763 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Governor Calls For Session On Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. David A. Paterson, in a brief and rare live televised address, said Tuesday evening that New York is facing a fiscal crisis in the wake of Wall Street's meltdown, and he called on the Legislature to return next month to grapple with a budget deficit that will grow to $26.2 billion over the next three years.
Mr. Paterson gave few details about what actions he would take, but he told the public that his administration would examine an array of difficult potential steps, including reducing the state's work force, cutting additional spending in state agencies and selling or leasing public assets.
''Our economic woes are so severe that I wanted to talk to you personally this evening about where we stand,'' the governor said in a speech from the Capitol that lasted roughly five minutes. ''The fact is, we confront harsh times. Let me be honest, this situation will get worse before it gets better.'' 
The governor, who is legally blind and delivers speeches from memory, sat at a mahogany table in the Red Room.
Even as he called on New York and other governments to ''cut up our credit cards,'' he said he would push for two major initiatives that could cost the state money. One would place limits on school property tax increases, possibly increasing pressure to increase state aid to local governments and school districts, and the other would increase home heating assistance to poor and elderly residents.
The governor's speech amounted to a call to arms to prepare the public for difficult times ahead and to put the Legislature on notice that it must rein in spending. Just four months into his job, the governor, a liberal Democrat who spent more than two decades in the Senate, is also trying to establish himself as a fiscal disciplinarian as he tries to head off opponents for his expected bid to be elected in his own right in 2010.
Speculation about potential challengers has included politicians with more established financial credentials, including the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York City.
''I'm asking for the state leaders in the public and private sector, in labor, those who serve in Washington, owners of business and others to join us in this great effort,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''The era of buy now, pay later and later is over. The faster we address this crisis, the faster and stronger we will emerge from it.''
The state's potentially staggering shortfall stems largely from the financial woes on Wall Street, which accounts for a fifth of the state's revenue. A recent review by The New York Times of the latest statements by large financial firms based in New York said they were likely to hand out $18 billion less in pay and benefits this year than they did last year.
In his speech, the governor said taxes collected on 16 of the state's largest banks fell 97 percent between June 2007 and June 2008, to $5 million from $173 million.
''The damage on Wall Street is infecting all of our communities, and its effects on our New York State finances are devastating,'' Mr. Paterson said. At the same time, he said, the projected budget deficit for the fiscal year that begins April 1, 2009, has grown to $6.4 billion from $5 billion in just the last three months. The projected three-year shortfall has also grown sharply, to $26.2 billion from $21.5 billion.
Though the governor's speech was light on further detail, he and the state's budget director, Laura Anglin, are expected to lay out an updated financial plan on Wednesday.
The governor is not planning to lay out his own plans for cuts beyond those that can be achieved administratively, aides said, meaning deeper cuts will have to emerge from rapid negotiations with lawmakers.
The governor, who has the power to order the Legislature into session, said he was calling for ''an emergency economic session'' on Tuesday, Aug. 19.
Already, the Democratic-led Assembly and Republican-led Senate were drawing lines in the sand in their responses to the speech.
Senate Republicans have said they will come back to Albany ahead of the special session to pass the governor's property tax cap, and urged him on Tuesday to support their bill calling for a ceiling on overall budget increases.
''Now that the governor has identified an economic crisis and is calling the Legislature back to Albany, it's time for him to embrace our spending cap, put it on the agenda and urge the Assembly to follow suit,'' said the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos.
Assembly Democrats, by contrast, said they would pass a school property tax cap only if they were convinced that there would be no cuts to school aid.
''In every period of economic decline, the call for cuts and caps gives rise to the same important questions,'' the speaker, Sheldon Silver, said in a statement. ''What programs will be cut?''
Some budget and political analysts have been surprised by some of the governor's recent statements, which have had a slightly scolding tone toward the Legislature in a year when all 212 seats come up for a vote this fall.
Edmund J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative research group, said he was encouraged by the speech.
''The usual rules of the game are that you don't interrupt the Legislature's summer vacation in an election year to bring them back to Albany to deal with a trivial matter like a severe fiscal downturn,'' he said with a touch of irony.
''Has he put details on the table? No. But he's saying, 'We have big trouble, and I want them to come back and think about this with me,' '' he added. ''It's their election year, and he's making fiscal problems an issue.''
The governor's rapport with Assembly Democrats, in particular, is showing signs of strain.
''If it turns into a tax cap tap dance, nothing is going to happen,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat.
''If this is about adjusting to fundamental new realities, then I'm assuming we'll get his fundamental new proposals 10 days ahead of the session. There's no way that you can have a serious conversation about issues this big in 48 hours.''
Correction: August 1, 2008, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about an address by Gov. David A. Paterson of New York in which he asked the Legislature to return for a special session in August to grapple with the state's fiscal crisis paraphrased incorrectly from one of his comments. He called on New York and other governments -- not ''citizens'' -- to ''cut up our credit cards.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson preparing to speak from the Red Room of the Capitol. ''Let me be honest, this situation will get worse before it gets better,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); POLITICS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); COUNTIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (69%); LIBERALISM (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); AGING (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011



764 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Merger of British Airways and Iberia Could Signify a Trend

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
British Airways and the Spanish carrier Iberia announced a merger plan Tuesday in what would be the first major alliance between European carriers since the recent surge in oil prices pushed fuel prices to record levels. 
 The move could herald further consolidation in Europe as the airline industry faces slowing growth and higher costs. 
 The longtime partners British Airways and Iberia said Tuesday that they intended to join forces in an all-stock transaction. 
 Analysts at Standard and Poor's Ratings Services said the deal would be ''beneficial'' to British Airways.
 ''It will strengthen its network coverage, particularly in Latin America, and increase its level of diversification in long-haul markets, which are highly reliant on North American routes,'' the analysts, Leigh Bailey and Eve Greb, said in a research report.
 The revenue and cost-cutting opportunities created by the deal would be ''invaluable in an extremely challenging economic environment,'' they said. Iberia has a track record of consistent profitability, a strong balance-sheet structure and limited net debt, the analysts added.
 Aviation executives have been predicting a wave of mergers for some time as stubbornly high oil prices and economic slowdown damage both their cost and revenue base.
 Nick Cunningham, an aviation analyst with Evolution Securities in London, said that the consolidation that began when Lufthansa took over Swiss Air in March 2005, and Air France merged with KLM in May 2004, was speeding up. In the United States, Delta Air Lines and Northwest said in April that they would merge to become the biggest domestic carrier, ahead of American Airlines.
 ''The distressed environment -- a combination of recession and oil price shocks -- is effectively accelerating the process,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''It puts everyone under stress.'' 
 In another sign of upheaval in the industry, the chairman of Austrian Airlines, Peter Michaelis, said in Vienna that Austria's 43 percent stake in his airline, which is worth 143 million euros, or $225 million, could be sold by the end of October if the government agreed to move quickly. 
 Lufthansa has often been cited in connection with such a deal. 
 Also on Tuesday, the Serbian government announced the sale of a majority stake in its state-owned airline, JAT. 
 The troubled Italian carrier Alitalia is still searching for a buyer. 
 British Airways and Iberia, already linked by cross-shareholdings, said Tuesday that their talks had the backing of their respective boards. They said that they aimed to retain their two separate brands, in much the same way Air France has done with KLM. 
 British Airways owns 13.15 percent of Iberia, while the Spanish company announced Tuesday that it had acquired 2.99 percent of British Airways and held derivatives giving it the ability to acquire 6.99 percent more. 
 ''The aviation landscape is changing and airline consolidation is long overdue,'' the chief executive of British Airways, Willie Walsh, said. ''The combined balance sheet, anticipated synergies and network fit between the airlines make a merger an attractive proposition, particularly in the current economic environment.'' 
 A deal would see British Airways' strength in North America and Asia complement the Latin American reach of Iberia. 
 Peter Morris, chief economist at Ascend, an aviation consultancy in London, was skeptical about the likelihood of a deal with Iberia, given that British Airways' name has also been linked over the years with KLM, American Airlines, United and US Airways, with no transaction ever taking place. 
 ''B.A. has gone through a whole series of interested parties, and there have always been last-minute problems,'' Mr. Morris said, adding that British Airways would probably be reluctant, for instance, to divest precious landing slots at London Heathrow Airport -- that were valued at some or $39.5 million before the oil crisis hit -- to satisfy regulatory concerns. 
 Between them, British Airways and Iberia could end up controlling about 45 percent of the slots at Heathrow, which is the main European hub for flights to North America. But other specialists said that the increased urgency of the airlines' situations now meant that regulators would not wish to see a deal buried this time. 
 ''Common sense will prevail in Europe and the United States that this is a sensible deal,'' said Howard Wheeldon, senior strategist at the brokerage BGC Partners in London. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); MERGERS (91%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TRENDS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (54%); AUSTRIAN AIRLINES GROUP AG (53%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%); AF (PAR) (54%); AF (AMS) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (71%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



765 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Keep A Restriction On Farming

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Amid improving harvest expectations for this year, the United States agriculture secretary, Ed Schafer, said Tuesday that he would not lift penalties for farmers who plant crops on land set aside for conservation.
 Bakers and livestock owners had mounted an intense lobbying effort to erase the penalties in order to increase the harvest and lower high crop prices. The pressure intensified in June after floods washed away farm fields in the Midwest, leading to fears of a poor harvest.
 But Mr. Schafer said recent forecasts indicated a larger crop than had seemed likely in the days and weeks after the flooding. In addition, he said that corn prices had plummeted 25 percent from record highs earlier this year, while soybean prices were down 14 percent. 
 ''We don't feel that the corn and soybean crops will be as bad as we originally feared,'' he said. 
 The ruling was a major victory for conservationists and hunting groups, who had argued that lifting the penalties would have gutted the Conservation Reserve Program, which pays farmers not to cultivate marginal land. Currently, 34.7 million acres are enrolled in the program, much of it in the Great Plains.
 Under the terms of the program, farmers sign contracts for up to a decade or more. Farmers who terminate the contract must reimburse the government, with interest and a 25 percent penalty on the total rent payments they received.
 ''The Conservation Reserve Program is the holy grail of conservation, and we are pleased that the U.S.D.A. will maintain the program and the benefits that it has had,'' said Barton James, director of agriculture conservation policy for Ducks Unlimited, an advocacy group.
 But Robb MacKie, president and chief executive of the American Bakers Association, said that maintaining the penalty would hurt business owners and consumers who are struggling to pay higher prices for commodities and food.
 ''It is outrageous that the government is going to pay these folks not to grow when they want to grow on these acres,'' he said.
 The National Pork Producers said the decision would hurt hog farmers who are struggling to pay for feed. Since the start of the year, farmers have lost $20 a hog on average because of soaring feed costs, the group calculates.
 ''We are cutting back our swine herd and production by as much as 10 percent over the next several months, and even then we will need more acres and more corn in 2009 to meet the demands of ethanol producers and other users to feed this smaller herd,'' Bryan Black, the group's president, said in a statement.
 In May, responding to demands by livestock producers, Mr. Schafer had announced the unprecedented step of allowing more than half of the acres enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program to be used for hay and grazing, after the bird-nesting season was completed.
 But in explaining Tuesday why he would not go further and lift penalties to allow farmers to plant on conservation land, the secretary explained that economic forces were already shrinking the program. In the last 19 months, farmers have paid their way out of the program to allow 288,726 acres back into production.
 In addition, farmers whose contracts expire in coming years may opt out of the conservation program, particularly if commodity prices remain high. 
 The secretary said contracts covering 1.1 million acres will expire in September, 3.8 million acres the following year, and 4.4 million acres in September 2010.
 Mr. Schafer said he could reconsider his decision depending on crop conditions, saying that ''we realize we're in a situation that can change rapidly and quickly.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); PORK (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); FOOD PRICES (76%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (76%); CORN MARKETS (76%); ALCOHOLS (73%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ETHANOL (50%)

PERSON: ED SCHAFER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



766 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Soldier Dies Hours After Army Apologizes for Convictions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Samuel Snow died refusing to cash the Army's check, but not before receiving a long-awaited apology. 
 Mr. Snow, a retired janitor who was a soldier during World War II, died early Sunday, 64 years after he was wrongly convicted in connection with the death of a prisoner of war at a military post here. At a ceremony on the old post hours before Mr. Snow's death, a top Army official formally apologized to him and to the families of 27 other soldiers who had been involved in the case.
 ''It's mighty long coming,'' said Roy Montgomery, 87, who is now the only known survivor among the soldiers and who lives in a nursing home in Park Forest, Ill. 
 Still, Mr. Montgomery, Mr. Snow and the families of the other soldiers have not received what their supporters believe is fair financial compensation for having been wrongly convicted and imprisoned and having their pay docked after one of the largest Army courts-martial of the war, in 1944.
 Last fall, after an Army review ordered by Congress found that the soldiers had been wrongly convicted, Mr. Snow was cut a check for $725 in back pay. That amount was based on his pay at the time of his conviction, without being adjusted for interest or inflation. Believing he was owed more, and after reading an Army letter that said cashing the check would prohibit him from seeking more, Mr. Snow never accepted the money. He was 84 when he died.
 ''We're probably going to frame that check,'' his son, Ray, said Monday from the family's home in Leesburg, Fla.
 Members of Congress, including Representative Jim McDermott of Washington and Senator Bill Nelson of Florida, both Democrats, have been pushing a measure that would give the Army the authority to pay interest on the payments or adjust them for inflation. For Mr. Snow's family, that could mean $80,000 or more, depending on how the Army calculates the benefits a soldier receives. 
 The House has passed the measure as part of the Defense Authorization Act. A slightly different measure in the Senate awaits a full vote.
 Only a handful of the families of the 28 men have submitted to the Army the request for review that must be filed before it will formally throw out the conviction, grant an honorable discharge and pay compensation.
 ''The United States Army is not spending a single dime trying to trace these folks,'' said Jack Hamann, a Seattle journalist whose book about the case, ''On American Soil,'' brought the matter to the attention of Mr. McDermott.
 Mr. McDermott has suggested that the wrongly convicted soldiers, all black, were ''victims of racial injustice.''
 The soldiers were stationed in Seattle at Fort Lawton on Aug. 15, 1944, when a prisoner of war, Guglielmo Olivotto, was found dead by hanging after a night of fighting between American soldiers and Italian prisoners. 
 Two defense lawyers, representing 43 men initially charged, had 13 days to prepare for trial. Twenty-eight black American soldiers were convicted of rioting; two were also convicted of manslaughter. Last fall, the Army's Board for Correction of Military Records found that the defense had been rushed and that the military prosecutor had withheld important evidence that could have helped the defendants.
 Mr. Snow flew to Seattle from Florida last week to attend the ceremonies honoring the soldiers. But he became too ill with heart problems to attend the main event on Saturday, when an assistant secretary for the Army, Ronald James, gave plaques to the families present and apologized on behalf of the Army for what he called ''a grievous wrong.'' 
 Mr. Snow died early the next morning, but not before hearing about the apology, his son said.
 ''He had a smile so big,'' the younger Mr. Snow said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Samuel Snow, at home in Leesburg, Fla., in 2007. He was once of 28 soldiers who had their 1944 convictions overturned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS LIVINGSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); MILITARY OFFENSES (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); BACK PAY (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); WRITERS (60%)

PERSON: JIM MCDERMOTT (70%); BILL NELSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



767 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Cyclops And Cunning

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 In his eight days around the world, Barack Obama learned a lot.
 His meeting with Angela Merkel taught him a whole new expression.
 ''When we were talking about Iran,'' he told me, ''it turns out that carrots and sticks in German is sweetbread and whips, which I thought was a little more evocative.''
 I said it sounded like a skit with Ali G, sitting on a settee, talking to Madam Chancellor, the ''Iron Frau,'' about whips. 
 ''That's the equivalent German expression,'' he continued, with an amused smile. ''That was a little cultural lesson. Sweetbread and whips. I thought, man, we're in Berlin ...''
 At home, Jon Stewart was poking fun at the grandiosity of the ''Obama Quest'' and ''the Obamanauts.'' He showed film clips of ''our hero'' in chain mail fighting off dragons and a Cyclops in his crusade to come home and rule over Dreamerica.
 By happenstance, on O-Force One I raised the matter of quests and Cyclops with the candidate. Having read that he had left the trail in early June to go back to Chicago and see his daughter Malia perform in ''The Odyssey'' for theater class, I wondered if that rang any bells on this trip? The hero on a foreign journey, battling through obstacles to get back home, where more trouble would wait?
 ''The whole sort of siren thing, the Cyclops, that's interesting,'' he said. 
 Unlike an idol, Bobby Kennedy, Obama does not see himself in terms of Greek myth, although he did tell The Times's Jeff Zeleny on the trip that he knew the risks of ''flying too close to the sun.''
 The Obamanauts were so pleased with navigating their complex thicket of global photo-ops -- without even one embarrassing picture of Obama hugging an Arab -- that they weren't as wary with the press.
 The senator left his briefing books behind for a rare instance of mingling with his journalism posse at a Berlin restaurant as he sipped a rare ''very dry'' martini with olives. (This was either because he wanted to charm the press, which, contrary to popular imagination, is not universally enchanted with him, or because he could not get ESPN in his hotel room.)
 The Obamanauts were so elated that they didn't even seem to mind the caricature of Obama, ears sticking out, that had been drawn on the round We-Are-The-World Obama logo in the press section. The cartoon candidate demanded: ''Worship me.''
 After he got out of the Middle East unscathed and filled up the park in Berlin, Obama seemed to relax.
 I asked him what presents he takes home to his daughters. ''Anytime I make a stop, Sasha gets snow globes and Malia gets key chains,'' he said. ''Somebody is assigned to that.''
 ''You have a snow globe aide?'' I marveled.
 He also admitted that he didn't know exactly what was in those blue boxes with ribbons that his body man, Reggie Love, was toting for world leaders.
 ''I was not well organized enough to personally think of what presents to give these guys,'' Obama said. ''Hopefully, should I end up being president, I can put my touch on the present thing. But I didn't even know it was a custom to give presents other than state visits.''
 I said he could be forgiven for not knowing the customs of a trip that had never taken place before -- a mere presumptive nominee of one party being feted like a president. Or, given W.'s repellant effect on Old Europe and Obama's pheromone effect, better than a president.
 The British opposition leader David Cameron gave Obama a copy of Winston Churchill's ''A History of the English-Speaking Peoples'' and a box of CDs by British bands, including the Smiths, Radiohead and the Gorillaz.
 Obama told Cameron that he had been told by ''somebody who had worked in the White House'' that ''should we be successful, that actually the most important thing you need to do is have big chunks of time during the day when all you're doing is thinking.''
 Sure enough, ''our hero'' came home to a passel of economic troubles in Dreamerica, rushing to talk to Bernanke & Paulson. Some news analyses of his trip wondered ''Where's the Bounce?'' The old Hillary refrain -- why can't he close the deal against a supposedly flawed opponent -- echoes.
 A USA Today/Gallup poll found that his trip ''has not broadened confidence in his ability to be commander of the U.S. military,'' according to the paper, and ''suggested Obama's trip may have helped energize voters who favor McCain.''
 Obama met with House Democrats on Tuesday evening. Some said his reception was not as enthusiastic as the one Hillary got when she returned from her odyssey. The room warmed to him, mainly because he told the lawmakers how much he'd need them to get policies passed if he gets elected.
 Odysseus's heroic trait is his cunning intelligence. Given his inability to get lift off, even flying close to the sun, Obama will need all he can muster. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); RESTAURANTS (67%); JOURNALISM (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ANGELA MERKEL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%) GERMANY (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); UNITED STATES (78%); MIDDLE EAST (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008



768 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2362 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Law, Testing Ideas, Obama Stood Slightly Apart

BYLINE: By JODI KANTOR

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- The young law professor stood apart in too many ways to count. At a school where economic analysis was all the rage, he taught rights, race and gender. Other faculty members dreamed of tenured positions; he turned them down. While most colleagues published by the pound, he never completed a single work of legal scholarship.
At a formal institution, Barack Obama was a loose presence, joking with students about their romantic prospects, using first names, referring to case law one moment and ''The Godfather'' the next. He was also an enigmatic one, often leaving fellow faculty members guessing about his precise views.
Mr. Obama, now the junior senator from Illinois and the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, spent 12 years at the University of Chicago Law School. Most aspiring politicians do not dwell in the halls of academia, and few promising young legal thinkers toil in state legislatures. Mr. Obama planted a foot in each, splitting his weeks between an elite law school and the far less rarefied atmosphere of the Illinois Senate. 
Before he outraised every other presidential primary candidate in American history, Mr. Obama marched students through the thickets of campaign finance law. Before he helped redraw his own State Senate district, making it whiter and wealthier, he taught districting as a racially fraught study in how power is secured. And before he posed what may be the ultimate test of racial equality -- whether Americans will elect a black president -- he led students through African-Americans' long fight for equal status.
Standing in his favorite classroom in the austere main building, sharp-witted students looming above him, Mr. Obama refined his public speaking style, his debating abilities, his beliefs.
''He tested his ideas in classrooms,'' said Dennis Hutchinson, a colleague. Every seminar hour brought a new round of, ''Is affirmative action justified? Under what circumstances?'' as Mr. Hutchinson put it.
But Mr. Obama's years at the law school are also another chapter -- see United States Senate, c. 2006 -- in which he seemed as intently focused on his own political rise as on the institution itself. Mr. Obama, who declined to be interviewed for this article, was well liked at the law school, yet he was always slightly apart from it, leaving some colleagues feeling a little cheated that he did not fully engage. The Chicago faculty is more rightward-leaning than that of other top law schools, but if teaching alongside some of the most formidable conservative minds in the country had any impact on Mr. Obama, no one can quite point to it.
''I don't think anything that went on in these chambers affected him,'' said Richard Epstein, a libertarian colleague who says he longed for Mr. Obama to venture beyond his ideological and topical comfort zones. ''His entire life, as best I can tell, is one in which he's always been a thoughtful listener and questioner, but he's never stepped up to the plate and taken full swings.''
Mr. Obama had other business on his mind, embarking on five political races during his 12 years at the school. Teaching gave him satisfaction, along with a perch and a paycheck, but he was impatient with academic debates over ''whether to drop a footnote or not drop a footnote,'' said Abner J. Mikva, a mentor whose own career has spanned Congress, the federal bench and the same law school.
Douglas Baird, another colleague, remembers once asking Mr. Obama to assess potential candidates for governor.
''First of all, I'm not running for governor, '' Mr. Obama told him. ''But if I did, I would expect you to support me.''
He was a third-year state senator at the time.
Popular and Enigmatic
Mr. Obama arrived at the law school in 1991 thanks to Michael W. McConnell, a conservative scholar who is now a federal appellate judge. As president of The Harvard Law Review, Mr. Obama had impressed Mr. McConnell with editing suggestions on an article; on little more than that, the law school gave him a fellowship, which amounted to an office and a computer, which he used to write his memoir, ''Dreams From My Father.''
The school had almost no black faculty members, a special embarrassment given its location on the South Side. Its sleek halls bordered a neighborhood crumbling with poverty and neglect. In his 2000 Congressional primary race, Representative Bobby L. Rush, a former Black Panther running for re-election, used Mr. Obama's ties to the school to label him an egghead and an elitist.
At the school, Mr. Obama taught three courses, ascending to senior lecturer, a title otherwise carried only by a few federal judges. His most traditional course was in the due process and equal protection areas of constitutional law. His voting rights class traced the evolution of election law, from the disenfranchisement of blacks to contemporary debates over districting and campaign finance. Mr. Obama was so interested in the subject that he helped Richard Pildes, a professor at New York University, develop a leading casebook in the field.
His most original course, a historical and political seminar as much as a legal one, was on racism and law. Mr. Obama improvised his own textbook, including classic cases like Brown v. Board of Education, and essays by Frederick Douglass, W. E. B. Dubois, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X, as well as conservative thinkers like Robert H. Bork.
Mr. Obama was especially eager for his charges to understand the horrors of the past, students say. He assigned a 1919 catalog of lynching victims, including some who were first raped or stripped of their ears and fingers, others who were pregnant or lynched with their children, and some whose charred bodies were sold off, bone fragment by bone fragment, to gawkers.
''Are there legal remedies that alleviate not just existing racism, but racism from the past?'' Adam Gross, now a public interest lawyer in Chicago, wrote in his class notes in April 1994.
For all the weighty material, Mr. Obama had a disarming touch. He did not belittle students; instead he drew them out, restating and polishing halting answers, students recall. In one class on race, he imitated the way clueless white people talked. ''Why are your friends at the housing projects shooting each other?'' he asked in a mock-innocent voice.
A favorite theme, said Salil Mehra, now a law professor at Temple University, were the values and cultural touchstones that Americans share. Mr. Obama's case in point: his wife, Michelle, a black woman, loved ''The Brady Bunch'' so much that she could identify every episode by its opening shots.
As his reputation for frank, exciting discussion spread, enrollment in his classes swelled. Most scores on his teaching evaluations were positive to superlative. Some students started referring to themselves as his groupies. (Mr. Obama, in turn, could play the star. In what even some fans saw as self-absorption, Mr. Obama's hypothetical cases occasionally featured himself. ''Take Barack Obama, there's a good-looking guy,'' he would introduce a twisty legal case.)
Challenging Assumptions
Liberals flocked to his classes, seeking refuge. After all, the professor was a progressive politician who backed child care subsidies and laws against racial profiling, and in a 1996 interview with the school newspaper sounded skeptical of President Bill Clinton's efforts to reach across the aisle.
''On the national level, bipartisanship usually means Democrats ignore the needs of the poor and abandon the idea that government can play a role in issues of poverty, race discrimination, sex discrimination or environmental protection,'' Mr. Obama said.
But the liberal students did not necessarily find reassurance. ''For people who thought they were getting a doctrinal, rah-rah experience, it wasn't that kind of class,'' said D. Daniel Sokol, a former student who now teaches law at the University of Florida at Gainesville.
For one thing, Mr. Obama's courses chronicled the failure of liberal policies and court-led efforts at social change: the Reconstruction-era amendments that were rendered meaningless by a century of resistance, the way the triumph of Brown gave way to fights over busing, the voting rights laws that crowded blacks into as few districts as possible. He was wary of noble theories, students say; instead, they call Mr. Obama a contextualist, willing to look past legal niceties to get results.
For another, Mr. Obama liked to provoke. He wanted his charges to try arguing that life was better under segregation, that black people were better athletes than white ones.
''I remember thinking, 'You're offending my liberal instincts,' '' Mary Ellen Callahan, now a privacy lawyer in Washington, recalled.
In his voting rights course, Mr. Obama taught Lani Guinier's proposals for structuring elections differently to increase minority representation. Opponents attacked those suggestions when Ms. Guinier was nominated as assistant attorney general for civil rights in 1993, costing her the post.
''I think he thought they were good and worth trying,'' said David Franklin, who now teaches law at DePaul University in Chicago.
But whether out of professorial reserve or budding political caution, Mr. Obama would not say so directly. ''He surfaced all the competing points of view on Guinier's proposals with total neutrality and equanimity,'' Mr. Franklin said. ''He just let the class debate the merits of them back and forth.''
While students appreciated Mr. Obama's evenhandedness, colleagues sometimes wanted him to take a stand. When two fellow faculty members asked him to support a controversial antigang measure, allowing the Chicago police to disperse and eventually arrest loiterers who had no clear reason to gather, Mr. Obama discussed the issue with unusual thoughtfulness, they say, but gave little sign of who should prevail -- the American Civil Liberties Union, which opposed the measure, or the community groups that supported it out of concern about crime.
''He just observed it with a kind of interest,'' said Daniel Kahan, now a professor at Yale.
Nor could his views be gleaned from scholarship; Mr. Obama has never published any. He was too busy, but also, Mr. Epstein believes, he was unwilling to put his name to anything that could haunt him politically, as Ms. Guinier's writings had hurt her. ''He figured out, you lay low,'' Mr. Epstein said.
The Chicago law faculty is full of intellectually fiery friendships that burn across ideological lines. Three times a week, professors do combat over lunch at a special round table in the university's faculty club, and they share and defend their research in workshop discussions. Mr. Obama rarely attended, even when he was in town.
''I'm not sure he was close to anyone,'' Mr. Hutchinson said, except for a few liberal constitutional law professors, like Cass Sunstein, now an occasional adviser to his campaign. Mr. Obama was working two other jobs, after all, in the State Senate and at a civil rights law firm.
Several colleagues say Mr. Obama was surely influenced by the ideas swirling around the law school campus: the prevailing market-friendliness, or economic analysis of the impact of laws. But none could say how. ''I'm not sure we changed him,'' Mr. Baird said.
Because he never fully engaged, Mr. Obama ''doesn't have the slightest sense of where folks like me are coming from,'' Mr. Epstein said. ''He was a successful teacher and an absentee tenant on the other issues.''
Leaving the Classroom
As Mr. Obama built his political career, his so-called groupies became an early core of supporters, handing out leaflets and hosting fund-raisers in their modest apartments.
''Maybe we charged an audacious $20?'' said Jesse Ruiz, now a corporate lawyer in Chicago. Mr. Obama was sheepish asking for even that, Mr. Ruiz recalls. With no staff, Mr. Obama would come by the day after a fund-raiser to stuff the proceeds into a backpack.
Mr. Obama never mentioned his humiliating, hopeless campaign against Mr. Rush in class (he lost by a two-to-one margin), though colleagues noticed that he seemed exhausted and was smoking more than usual.
Soon after, the faculty saw an opening and made him its best offer yet: Tenure upon hiring. A handsome salary, more than the $60,000 he was making in the State Senate or the $60,000 he earned teaching part time. A job for Michelle Obama directing the legal clinic.
Your political career is dead, Daniel Fischel, then the dean, said he told Mr. Obama, gently. Mr. Obama turned the offer down. Two years later, he decided to run for the Senate. He canceled his course load and has not taught since.
Now, watching the news, it is dawning on Mr. Obama's former students that he was mining material for his political future even as he taught them.
Byron Rodriguez, a real estate lawyer in San Francisco, recalls his professor's admiration for the soaring but plainspoken speeches of Frederick Douglass.
''No one speaks this way anymore,'' Mr. Obama told his class, wondering aloud what had happened to the art of political oratory. In particular, Mr. Obama admired Douglass's use of a collective voice that embraced black and white concerns, one that Mr. Obama has now adopted himself.
In class, Mr. Obama sounded many of the same themes he does on the campaign trail, Ms. Callahan said, ticking them off: ''self-determinism as opposed to paternalism, strength in numbers, his concept of community development.''
But as a professor, students say, Mr. Obama was in the business of complication, showing that even the best-reasoned rules have unintended consequences, that competing legal interests cannot always be resolved, that a rule that promotes justice in one case can be unfair in the next.
So even some former students who are thrilled at Mr. Obama's success wince when they hear him speaking like the politician he has so fully become.
''When you hear him talking about issues, it's at a level so much simpler than the one he's capable of,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''He was a lot more fun to listen to back then.''
The Long Run: This is part of a series about the life and careers of contenders for the 2008 Republican and Democratic presidential nominations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOT AFRAID TO PROVOKE: Barack Obama taught at the University of Chicago Law School for 12 years. Former students say he tested many of the ideas of his presidential campaign in the classroom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT GOLDSMITH, 2002) (pg.A14) GRAPHIC: REAL-LIFE REMEDIES: Former students say Senator Obama was eager for them to understand the horrors of past racism, but also willing to chronicle the failure of liberal policies and court-led efforts at social change. (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LAWYERS (89%); POLITICS (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (74%); HISTORY (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2011



769 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2008

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Tourists Adore New York City

BYLINE: JENNIFER 8. LEE


HIGHLIGHT: New York City now draws more foreign tourist dollars than any other city in the United States, besting Orlando, Fla., and Las Vegas.

 BODY:
It seems "Sex and the City" now trumps Mickey Mouse and blackjack as the top draw for tourists in the United States. New York City surpassed Orlando, Fla., and Las Vegas to become the No. 1 spending destination for foreign tourists, according to Global Insight, an international economic forecasting firm. New York had ranked third in the previous survey, conducted in 2006. 
The combination of marketing initiatives and the weak dollar has drawn a surge of foreign visitors to the city, one of the few areas in the country which has seen an increase in tourism since 9/11. While Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and NYC & Company, the city's quasi-independent marketing arm, had originally set a goal of attracting 50 million visitors (domestic and foreign) annually to New York by 2015, they recently said that goal is likely to be achieved by 2012. In 2007, the city welcomed a record 46 million visitors, 1.5 million more than the previous year, who collectively spent $28.85 billion, 16 percent higher than the year before 2006.
In contrast, the total number of visitors to the United States from outside North America (that is, excluding those from Canada and Mexico) was 23.2 million in 2007, according to the United States Commerce Department. That is still well below the 26 million who entered the United States in 2000, before post-9/11 security measures created new inconveniences for overseas travelers. Of those, the NYC & Company, estimates that 7.6 million people from outside North America visited New York City in 2007, an increase of about 800,000 people from 2006. Together with visitors from Canada and Mexico, some 8.5 million foreign visitors came to the city last year.
The United States, unlike many other large industrialized countries, does not have a central tourism promotion and marketing agency. New York City, however, has been running a global ad campaign called "This is New York City." The huge popularity of "Sex and the City" (both the HBO television series and the recent movie), which NYC & Co. has promoted, has helped to draw female tourists seeking a taste of the Carrie Bradshaw lifestyle.
In addition, NYC & Company has established some foreign offices. It hopes that the one in Shanghai, which opened in June 2007, will draw a new flow of Chinese tourists.
The surge in foreign tourists has forced some local businesses to consider setting prices in foreign currency. Of course, the flip side: the weak dollar, while a boon for local New York businesses that attract foreign tourists, has been more depressing for New York travelers overseas.

        
Orlando Beats N.Y.C. to 50 Million Visitors, Officials Say
        
It's Called Restaurant Week, but It Won't Stop at One
        
Venture Between Two Tour Bus Companies Is Stopped
        
Overseas Travelers Set Record for City's Airports
        
Cruise Passengers Provide a Jolt to Tourism Spending

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (94%); TOURISM (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RANKINGS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (69%); AIRPORTS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%) tourism; Highlights; Housing & Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



770 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Tour Costs Challenge Orchestras

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Despite the news that the Philadelphia Orchestra has canceled an international tour thanks to the ailing economy, other major American orchestras say they plan to forge ahead, even if some sponsorships are not yet in the bank.
 The Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Cleveland Orchestra, the San Francisco Symphony, the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic have confirmed that they will go forward with treks through Asia and Europe.
 Philadelphia has said that a lack of corporate support and the weak dollar led it to cancel a trip to Europe next summer. The orchestra was to have performed at the festivals of Lucerne, Switzerland, and Edinburgh, and at the London Proms, prestigious appearances that add luster to any international orchestra. 
 The tour was also to have been the maiden voyage for Charles Dutoit as the orchestra's chief conductor and music adviser, roles he assumes in the fall. The unusual cancellation was first reported by The Philadelphia Inquirer on Tuesday.
 James Undercofler, the orchestra's president, said in an interview on Tuesday that the high cost of air fares and hotels, made worse by the weak dollar, contributed to the decision. The fees paid by festivals rarely cover costs, so orchestras usually have to pay for trips with donations from companies and individuals, foundation support and government aid. Sponsors in foreign countries also often cover costs.
 In this case the corporations that had been donors for past tours did not come through, Mr. Undercofler said. ''You go to the people you've been counting on, and they say they can't do it this time,'' he said. He declined to identify the companies. Major supporters of Philadelphia Orchestra's most recent tours have included UBS, the Swiss bank, and AstraZeneca, the drug company. 
 UBS, hit with huge write-downs because of the subprime mortgage crisis, has withdrawn support for the UBS Verbier Orchestra in Switzerland. On Wednesday a spokeswoman said the Philadelphia Orchestra had not approached it about the tour next summer. AstraZeneca declined to comment.
 The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has been a consistent donor for Philadelphia Orchestra touring. ''Pennsylvania continues to be generous with us in all ways,'' Mr. Undercofler said.
 The Philadelphians are moving forward with a three-week European tour this winter led by their departing music director, Christoph Eschenbach. Mr. Undercofler said sponsors were in place, but he declined to name them. He noted that fees were generally lower from festivals because they are considered more prestigious for orchestras to play than concert hall dates.
 Some travel agents who handle orchestras said that they had yet to hear of cancellations, but that costs were becoming a concern. Increasingly, American orchestras are using fees paid in euros to cover local costs.
 The Cleveland Orchestra has turned touring into part of its business plan, establishing residencies in American and foreign cities including Miami; Vienna; and Salzburg, Austria. After playing at the Salzburg Festival in August the Cleveland Orchestra will move on to Lucerne and Italy. It plans to spend two weeks in Europe in the fall of 2009, including a week in Vienna. No sponsors are in place, said a spokeswoman, Ana Papakian. But she said orchestra officials were confident the money would be raised. 
 ''We are planning on going to Vienna currently, and I don't see anything changing that,'' she said.
 The San Francisco Symphony was to be in Lucerne -- a major orchestra showcase -- next summer but put off the visit for a year because the two sides could not agree on programming, not because of economic reasons, said a spokesman, Gary Ginstling. The Pittsburgh Symphony took the spot.
 The Chicago Symphony is off to Europe in September and Asia early next year, but has announced no plans for the 2009-10 season. The Boston Symphony, which tours less than other orchestras because of its commitments to Tanglewood and the Boston Pops, has a European voyage scheduled for February 2010.
 The New York Philharmonic is off to Europe next month for its last tour under its music director, Lorin Maazel, who is leaving after next season. His successor, Alan Gilbert, will take the orchestra on a major Asian tour in October 2009. The Philharmonic is also planning three European tours over 18 months starting in the winter of 2010, said its spokesman, Eric Latzky. 
 ''Everyone is aware of the difficult economy now,'' he said. ''But life still goes on.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); MUSIC (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); AIR FARES (52%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (84%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (84%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (58%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (84%); UBS (NYSE) (84%); AZN (STO) (53%); AZN (NYSE) (53%); AZN (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (64%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); ASIA (90%); AUSTRIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



771 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin: Museum With Focus on Blacks' Struggles Is Closing

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Financial problems are causing America's Black Holocaust Museum in Milwaukee, a museum started by a lynching survivor, to close its doors on Friday after 20 years. But the museum's board chairman, Reggie Jackson, said he was certain that reconfiguring the board, a new fund-raising effort and increasing awareness would allow the museum to open again. ''We have every intention of reopening the museum once we get a plan in place,'' Mr. Jackson said. The lagging economy, building debt, a revolving door of executive directors over the past eight years and the death of its founder have all contributed to the museum's state, said Bethany Criss, the museum's interim executive director. One of the first of its kind in the country, the museum explores the struggles of blacks in America. It was founded in 1988 by James Cameron, above, who, in 1930, survived a lynch mob in Marion, Ind. He died in 2006 at 92. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); FUNDRAISING (88%)

PERSON: JAMES CAMERON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



772 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: In Newark, More Weariness Than Anger at Sentence

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
 Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney for New Jersey, may have been a little too angry for his own good when he reacted to the 27-month sentence for the former mayor of Newark, Sharpe James, on Tuesday. Irked by a sentence he saw as overly lenient, Mr. Christie said he would seek permission from the Justice Department to appeal and invoked the notion that in seven weeks Mr. James will report to federal prison, ''away from his house at the beach, away from his Rolls-Royce, and no more romantic strolls down Broad Street to catch the bus with regular people.''
 Mr. Christie, no doubt, was being snide about Mr. James's conspicuous stroll through Newark's downtown during jury deliberations, not the quality of street life on the still-bedraggled main drag. But whatever he meant, there was not a whole lot of romance on Broad Street on the sweaty afternoon after Mr. James was sentenced, not at the Dollar Bazaar or the Valu-Plus, not at the Newark Bargain Center, the Easy Pickins, the Dollar Deal or the Bee and Bee Bargain Center. 
 There was an incongruous Elvis imitator with a fierce plastic pompadour. There were sounds of a basketball bouncing, of ice vendors' bells, of wheezing buses. There were people sitting on plastic crates or gathered next to the McDonald's to sign their names to a yellow memorial poster for Gerald Matthews, who was known as Slim and was knifed to death on Sunday morning.
 But there was more weariness than outrage or anger at either the prosecution or Mr. James. To be sure, the mood was more favorable to Mr. James than not, with many people willing to believe that he deserved a modest prison sentence but that he did far more good than harm in Newark. But rather than the true devotion of partisans who packed the federal courthouse for his sentencing on Tuesday, there was something more bittersweet, a recognition of another disappointment in a city too used to them.
 ''All the headlines, none of them are giving him his proper dues,'' said Mark Brevard, who was signing the poster for Mr. Matthews, who lived alone with his cat and was a familiar figure to many downtown. ''You would think this man did nothing good for Newark and anything good was done by Cory Booker,'' he added referring to Mr. James's successor. ''You have a job like that, everyone wants something from you, and he made a mistake. But the good he did was a lot more than the bad.''
 People varied in the weight that should be given to either Mr. James's sins or his achievements. James Williams, who came to Newark from Camden, another city with a history of troubled governance, said the only thing that mattered was that Mr. James had had a public trust and that he had betrayed it.
 ''I think public service has lost its etiquette,'' he said. ''When you work for the people, integrity is paramount. My grandmother always said what doesn't come out in the wash will come out in the rinse. If you don't want the light to shine on you, be sure you're doing what you're supposed to be doing.''
 Salih Ali, a Newark native looking for work, said that Mr. James had helped bring Newark back after the riots of the 1960s and that it was his power, more than his offenses, that brought him down.
 ''He had this city locked up and a lot of people wanted it back,'' he said. ''The City of Newark is one of the biggest ports in the world, and they wanted someone who would play ball with them, some good ol' boy. He wasn't giving them what they wanted, and they had to make an example of him. It was the system, the hypocritical, diabolical, capricious system, that had to take him down. I think he deserved probation. You can't sentence someone based on feelings; you have to prove that he did wrong.''
 For some, it was hard to separate Mr. James's fate from Newark's. Maybe if the economy were better, if Broad Street were booming, if it weren't a place where the brand-name businesses are mostly restricted to fast-food chains or banks, people would have been more aggrieved. But at the Brickz, a clothing store, business is down, and that seemed to loom larger than Mr. James's sentence.
 ''He could have done so much more,'' said Cynthia Silva, one of the salespeople. ''His talk sounded good, but not enough changed. I mean there was a lot of money spent, but for what? Hockey games?''
 And if people were willing to point fingers, whether at overzealous prosecutors or at Mr. James, more seemed likely to see yet another doleful parable of human frailty, the burdens of power, a cynical tale of flawed justice, of human aspirations that somehow fall far short.
 So Gerald Beall, 49 and unemployed, was more sympathetic than not, but more philosophical than angry about Mr. James's fall. 
 ''You can read it in the Bible, the Koran, wherever you look,'' he said. ''Money changes everything.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); PRISONS (76%); VERDICTS (74%); BASKETBALL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



773 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Terrible Timing For a Hotel Boom

BYLINE: By ABHA BHATTARAI and FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
A record number of hotels are opening this year, and the timing could not be worse.
 High gasoline prices and a slumping economy have put a damper on leisure and business travel. Airlines have been cutting service and raising fares. While new hotels open, occupancy rates are falling across much of the United States. 
 ''We're really on the verge,'' said Charles Snyder of Smith Travel Research, a firm based in Hendersonville, Tenn. ''It hasn't turned into a hotel recession just yet, but we're certainly keeping an eye on the economy.''
 Until recently, the industry was in the midst of a major boom, and it was during those good times that the hotel companies made plans to build many of the new rooms. But the outlook has started to sour in the last couple of months. Nationwide, hotel occupancy levels have been hovering around 65 percent, down about 5 percentage points from last year, according to Smith Travel Research. 
 But business in particular areas -- like Maui in Hawaii, which is almost entirely dependent on air travel -- has ''already fallen off a cliff,'' said John Arabia, an analyst for Green Street Advisors, a real estate research and consulting firm in Newport Beach, Calif. Occupancy at the island's hotels has dropped to 63 percent from 85 percent last year, according to Hospitality Advisors, a research firm in Honolulu. One reason was the demise of two airlines serving Maui, Aloha and ATA, this spring. 
 Other tourist markets, like Las Vegas and Virginia Beach, Mr. Arabia added, are teetering on the edge.
 New York remains one of the few bright spots, as a weak dollar continues to attract international travelers. New York's occupancy rates ''are down a little bit,'' to about 85 percent this year, as more hotels have opened their doors, said Bjorn Hanson, a professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality at New York University. But he and other travel industry analysts warned that New York's hotels would be the hardest hit if the dollar's value rose and the economy -- both at home and overseas -- continued to slow. 
 Hotels, of course, are not the only victims of the softening in consumer spending. Restaurants that offer casual dining are suffering, too, as are midlevel department stores and retailers of discretionary goods, like Starbucks.
 The downturn in occupancy comes after several years that were good to the hotel industry. Occupancy rates, profit and revenue reached new highs each year. Last year, the hotel industry in the United States reported record revenue of $138 billion, with profits up 5.3 percent, to $28 billion. As demand grew, hotels began raising room rates. By 2007, rates were at record highs, up as much as 7.6 percent over the year before. 
 Since occupancy rates began to decline at the beginning of the year, the share prices of leading hotel companies have decreased 15 to 20 percent. By the end of 2009, Mr. Arabia said, hotel profits are likely to be down 20 percent from their 2007 levels.
 When the industry was recording record revenue, major chains like Holiday Inn, which is part of the InterContinental Hotels Group; Hyatt; and Ritz-Carlton, owned by Marriott, began making plans to open new hotels.
 The industry now has about 6,000 new hotels, with nearly 800,000 rooms, under development, a 27 percent increase from last year, according to Lodging Econometrics, a consulting firm in Portsmouth, N.H. About 2,000 of those hotels are already under construction, and construction is scheduled to begin on many more in the next year.
 But perhaps more telling is the number of projects called off in the last three months -- 327 -- after investment banks like Lehman Brothers, UBS and Merrill Lynch began to reduce financing for new construction, according to Lodging Econometrics. It was the highest number of cancellations since immediately after Sept. 11.
 Even Donald J. Trump, who plans to build hotels in New York City, Honolulu, Toronto, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Panama by 2010, is preparing for the worst.
 ''It may be speaking against my interest,'' Mr. Trump said, ''but I think the industry is headed for a fall.''
 The hotels most likely to suffer are expected to be in smaller cities that are losing scheduled air service, which could reach as many as 100 by the end of the year, according to air transportation analysts. 
 Rising air fares, already up an average of about 17 percent in 2008, are not expected to help. 
 ''The cost of the travel experience is the hotel and the flights,'' said Barry S. Sternlicht, the former chairman of Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide. ''If one costs more, consumers have less to spend on the other.'' Some analysts, however, say the hotel industry will be able to withstand the tough times, albeit with lower profits.
 Professor Hanson, of the Tisch Center, said that at current levels, most hotels could endure significantly lower occupancy and still make money. On average, he said, hotels break even at 54 percent occupancy. 
 Stephen P. Joyce, president of Choice Hotels International, said, ''It's a tough environment to open into.'' The company opened four hotels last year and has plans to open a dozen more by the end of this year, and more than 60 in the next three years. The company's brands include Comfort Inn, Cambria Suites and EconoLodge.
 In July, Starwood, which includes Westin, Sheraton and St. Regis, introduced its Aloft hotel -- a more hip and affordable brand modeled after its W Hotel. Starwood is developing more than 90 Alofts in 10 countries, and most of them ''are already under construction,'' Brian McGuinness, the company's vice president, said.
 But he said a few might have to be scrapped. ''There might be some slippage,'' he said, adding that plans for ''maybe five hotels'' would have to be canceled.
 Hyatt is also adjusting some of its plans. The company said it had originally planned to open 80 hotels this year. Instead, it will open 64, and about 94 next year.
 ''Projects that are in the planning stages right now are taking longer to get done and financing is more difficult,'' said James R. Abrahamson, the head of American development at Hyatt. ''It's hard not to be distracted by what's going on, but you can't stop working either.'' Although some hotel chains are beginning to respond by offering discounts, analysts say they do not expect widespread price cuts.
 In 2001, when the industry noticed that demand was dwindling, it immediately lowered prices in an effort to attract more customers. But those efforts did not work.
 ''We've found that discounting does not induce demand, it just induces lower revenue,'' Mr. Joyce, of Choice Hotels, said. ''The reality is, people are traveling right now because they have to. Lower prices won't get them to travel more.''
 But some hotels may have no choice and will have to settle for lower rates. Analysts say big companies, which normally negotiate bulk hotel rates in the fall, will have a stronger hand this year.
 ''The pendulum has swung back to the buyer,'' Mr. Arabia said.
 Jonathan Tisch, the chairman and chief executive of Loews Hotels, a chain of 18 hotels in the United States and Canada, said he was worried that the troubles in the hotel industry would have a broader impact on local economies.
 ''If somebody is not staying in a hotel room, that means they are not going to a Broadway show, they are not eating at a restaurant and they are not shopping,'' he said. ''This could have a significant negative impact.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the Trump International Hotel under construction in Honolulu. At left, a Cambria Suites Hotel being built in Pueblo, Colo. Nationally, hotel occupancy is down this year after the industry reported record revenue in 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, S&P DESTINATION PROPERTIES
LEFT, CAMBRIA SUITES)
Workers painting a room at a Hyatt Place hotel in Ridgeland, Miss. Hyatt has cut the number of hotels it plans to open this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A Cambria Suites hotel being built in Maple Grove, Minn., one of about 6,000 new hotels the industry is developing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAMBRIA SUITES)(pg. C9) CHART: Signs of Vacancy: Demand for hotel rooms in most cities across the country fell this June compared with June 2007. The hotel industry in Hawaii, almost entirely dependent on airlines, has been particularly hard hit by the slowdown in travel.
CHANGE IN HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATES: JUNE 2007 TO JUNE 2008
CHANGE IN HAWAIIAN TOURISM: Year-over-year change in visitor days, which measures both the number of tourists and the length of their stay.(Sources: Smith Travel Research
 Hawaii Dept. of Business, Economic Development and Tourism) Chart details bar graph for tourism rate. (pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LODGING (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); AIRLINES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); RETAILERS (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); PUEBLO, CO, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



774 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2403 words

HEADLINE: BREAKING IN The Music Promoter On the Bus, and Off It: The Initiation of a Young Rock Impresario

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
''Where's the bus, where's the bus, where's the bus?'' Sean Carlson fretted last month as he paced around a block in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, his BlackBerry buzzing a message a minute. He peered anxiously down the street, waiting. An hour later, he spotted it: an old Blue Bird school bus, painted white and powered by vegetable oil. On its wheels rode one far-fetched idea, months of work and, perhaps, a blueprint for his future.
 A nascent music promoter, with a wardrobe of cut-offs and three well-worn T-shirts, Mr. Carlson had turned 23 a few days before and barely had a moment to celebrate back home in Los Angeles. He was too busy planning the next step in his evolving career: taking the independent music festival that he founded five years ago in Los Angeles on the road. 
 Do-it-yourself to the extreme, the tour was a feat of coordination, with 28 shows in 25 cities in 27 days, and as many as four bands, three comedians and an art collective traveling together. Whether the whole crew would make it across the country with their relationships and their livelihoods intact, let alone make back the tens of thousands of dollars they spent to get started -- well, even the would-be impresario had his doubts. 
 ''We should break down; we should get into a fistfight,'' Mr. Carlson said. ''But, hopefully, we'll get through this.'' 
 A career in the arts has always been difficult to establish. But in the last few years the process of breaking in has changed as digital technologies and shifting economics profoundly alter the ways in which art is made, popularized and consumed. Perhaps no entertainment industry has changed as rapidly as the music business, where CD sales have imploded and revenues from digital downloads have yet to make up the difference. 
 Whether that constitutes a disaster or an opportunity depends largely on how old you are. For Mr. Carlson it seemed obvious: The tour was a chance to have fun, to make his name on a national scale and, he hoped, to leapfrog to the next level of the music world. Six weeks following him -- on the road and off, as he encountered broken axles, broken contracts and more -- revealed the challenges of this new path.
 When the bus finally pulled up in Williamsburg, bound for Baltimore, the first stop on the F Yeah Tour, Mr. Carlson eagerly hugged everyone. He and the crew began loading gear and luggage, a process they would repeat countless times, with dwindling enthusiasm, over the coming weeks.
 ''This may be the best idea I ever had,'' Mr. Carlson said. ''Or the worst.''
 Cash to Burn
 Whatever changes the music business has undergone, one truism remains: Concert promoters still operate on razor-thin margins and highly unbalanced risk-to-reward ratios, said Gary Bongiovanni, the editor in chief of Pollstar, the industry journal. ''I tell concert promoters, Are you willing to take $50,000 in cash in your driveway and burn it, and then come back to work the next day? Then maybe you're cut out to be a concert promoter,'' he said.
 Even before he hit the road, Mr. Carlson was moving toward that figure. He had spent some $20,000, most of it on buying the bus and converting it to bio-diesel. The money largely came from Phil Hoelting, a friend and aspiring music manager. Mr. Hoelting, 25, became Mr. Carlson's right-hand man, drawing cash advances from his credit card and taking a leave from his job as a merchandising manager for a publishing company to join the tour. 
 Mr. Carlson also enlisted his friends Donovan Lenker, 23, a drum teacher, and Jonathan Gilbert, 23, a sound technician, to help run the tour. Their assistance would leave him free to plan his Los Angeles festival, which was scheduled for three days in late August. With some 60 acts, it was supposed to be the cash cow, offsetting whatever losses Mr. Carlson might take on the tour. At the very least, between the two, he hoped to break even.
 ''It's not a money-making endeavor,'' Mr. Carlson said when he and his friends set out on the road. ''It's an adventure.'' 
 First Steps
 A self-starter with seemingly limitless ambition and few expenses -- he works out of his childhood bedroom in the home he shares with his father, Roy -- Mr. Carlson is as much a fan as a deal-maker. Growing up in Torrance, Calif., in the South Bay of Los Angeles, he got turned on to the local punk and indie-rock scenes early. By 14, he had created a music-oriented zine. At 15, he was a summer intern at Epitaph Records, a label known for its Southern California punk acts. In 2003, shortly after graduating from high school, he followed some friends' bands on tour, selling his zine outside their concerts. When he returned to Los Angeles, in lieu of college, he started organizing rock shows.
 The first F Yeah Fest was held in 2004 at the Echo, then a new club in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los Angeles that was seeking publicity. Despite his inexperience, Elizabeth Garo, the booker there, opened several floors for Mr. Carlson's roster of two dozen local bands.
 ''It was weird,'' Ms. Garo said of Mr. Carlson's appeal. ''He got you to say yes and you didn't even know how.'' Only later did she find out he was just 18. 
 The show, hosted by the comedian Zach Galifianakis, was a success -- sort of. Hundreds of people attended but ''there was no security, no organization, no schedule whatsoever,'' Mr. Carlson said. There was also no money, because he had neglected to charge at the door. ''I had no idea what I was doing,'' he said.
 Still, Ms. Garo and Mitchell Frank, the Echo's owner, were impressed enough by Mr. Carlson's ''enthusiasm and his relentlessness,'' as Ms. Garo put it, as well as his ahead-of-the-curve aesthetic, to work with him again. Last year's festival, the fourth, was the biggest yet, with buzzworthy bands playing to audiences of nearly 2,000 over two days at the Echo and other stages. Mr. Carlson's musical savvy also led last year to a part-time job as a buyer at a local record store.
 By then his reputation had grown enough that he was able to do exponentially bigger shows. At this year's South by Southwest Music Festival, the country's biggest industry conference, held in March in Austin, Tex., Mr. Carlson and several more-established partners -- Adam Hobbs, a marketing consultant from Los Angeles, and Graham Williams, an Austin promoter -- put on Mess With Texas, a mammoth free showcase in a park. It had a budget of about $160,000; in a booking coup, Mr. Carlson enlisted the Breeders, the alternative-rock group, to headline.
 But though he had reached a new height, he was not satisfied. ''If you ever think you're going to do well, you're not,'' he said. ''Nothing is ever going to be easy. You have to work yourself, like, stupid.''
 Big Plans, Maybe Too Big
 Back home after South by Southwest, Mr. Carlson immediately got to work, simultaneously organizing this summer's festival and creating the tour. Meant to appeal to an all-ages crowd, both mixed comedians, visual artists, underground and established bands. On the tour were Monotonix, an Israeli punk trio; the Deathset, an electrorock band from Baltimore; and Team Robespierre, hard-rocking Brooklynites. The headliners were Matt & Kim, a keyboard-and-drums duo courted by major labels. Online promotion was key: the bus, modernized with Internet access, carried a blogger, Michael Reich, who uploaded daily clips of shows and other antics to his Web site, videothing.com, and a photographer, Tod Seelie, whose work appeared on the influential music blog BrooklynVegan.com. 
 To entice young fans, Mr. Carlson kept ticket prices low, usually less than $10 a show. As the headliners, Matt & Kim typically got half the door money. Clubs were either guaranteed a certain amount from bar sales -- say, $3,500 for the bigger shows -- or paid 10 percent of the door, plus expenses. But even on nights with a big crowd, like the 800-plus fans in Philadelphia, Mr. Carlson might walk away with just a few hundred dollars. Less successful shows -- like one in Winston-Salem, N.C., where only 21 people turned out -- meant a big loss. 
 And coordinating both the tour and the festival quickly proved too much; Mr. Carlson was juggling dozens of bands, tens of thousands of dollars in budgets and very little sleep. ''Worked all day. Forgot to eat,'' he wrote in his journal on July 10. ''Now a terrible headache. I hate stress.''
 Relationships Running Raw
 By the time it got to Austin, a few shows shy of the halfway point, the F Yeah Tour was fraying. There had been no downtime, and the $12 per diem that Mr. Carlson had planned to dispense to each band member -- whiskey and cigarette money, he called it -- rarely materialized. There were loads of unplanned expenses, like tolls and a broken video projector. To power the bus, the crew had to hunt for discarded vegetable oil outside restaurants, a messy and time-consuming nightly chore. Meanwhile, the backer for the F Yeah Fest in Los Angeles had dropped out -- jeopardizing the tour's shoestring budget even further -- and Mr. Carlson and his festival partner, Keith Morris, the longtime punk singer, were struggling to keep that event afloat.
 As the tour rolled on, from Texas to Canada, Mr. Carlson had to leave repeatedly to deal with the festival. ''My friends are all on the road, breaking their back on a tour that I built,'' he wrote in an e-mail message, ''and I am not there sweating each show out, dealing with the everyday struggle of being on the road.'' In solidarity with his hard-scrabble crew, he slept on the floor at home.
 For those still on the tour, his absence was demoralizing at first. But soon one of the few women on the bus, Malia James, 27, a photographer, stepped up to become the tour manager, and things finally began running on schedule. By the time Mr. Carlson rejoined them -- in the Midwest -- he felt extraneous and resented. ''I got in over my head,'' he wrote of his overzealous plans in his tour diary a few weeks in, ''and it affected everyone.'' 
 Much of the stress could be traced to one key decision: forgoing corporate sponsorship. ''In the end, I feel it's dirty money,'' Mr. Carlson said of sponsors, ''and I would rather live the lifestyle that I live.''
 That's an unusual position in today's music industry. With album sales in freefall, licensing music and working with sponsors have become near-necessities for bands. And even big name-brand companies like Converse are happy to do deals with small-time promoters like Mr. Carlson in return for street-level cachet and a few thousand pairs of eyes.
 ''Music, in a way, has turned from being its own revenue stream into becoming added value for corporate brands,'' said Adam Shore, the general manager of Vice Music, a Brooklyn-based label, management and consulting company.
 Though he had accepted corporate branding of the Mess With Texas showcase, Mr. Carlson was reluctant to give up his youthful ideals and do-it-yourself ethos for F Yeah. But he acknowledged that his resolve might eventually waver. ''I'm always broke and I'm always hungry,'' he said with a sigh. 
 Rewards After Hours
 Still, the rock 'n' roll moments were there to savor. In Baltimore, four 14-year-old boys -- protopunkers who planned to follow the tour to Washington the next day -- got sweaty stage-diving and dancing. After the regular club gig in Austin, the tour and fans moved to the middle of a pedestrian bridge for a raucous after-hours show; it ended when the generator blew and the police arrived. Mr. Carlson wandered around that night, drinking and flirting.
 At such times, all the work -- the hours spent on telephone calls and e-mailing agents and managers, making travel arrangements, creating set lists, loading gear and cadging vegetable oil -- seemed worthwhile. For the bands, Mr. Carlson's earnest, hands-on style set him apart from the stereotypical slick managers and promoters for which the music business is known. 
 Though he may not have intended it, Mr. Carlson's approach is ''ingenious,'' Mr. Shore of Vice Music said. ''He's definitely an amazing role model for the way to break into the business. The whole industry at this point is about providing services for artists, and if you can find a way to work with a band or grow with that band, you're creating a job for yourself. Sean has created 10 jobs for himself.''
 Last Stop
 Finally, after nearly a month on the road, the tour pulled into New York for its last weekend of shows. Not having to travel between gigs -- or score vegetable oil -- meant that the mood was, for once, relaxed. The closing show, on July 13 at Club Exit in Greenpoint, Brooklyn -- just blocks from where the whole wild ride began -- was one of the biggest: 600 paying ticket-holders turned out for seven bands. 
 Inside, it was chaos as usual: Team Robespierre rocked out on the floor; Monotonix got the audience to hold its drummer -- complete with his drum kit -- aloft like the groom in some punk wedding, then the singer climbed aboard, too. During Matt & Kim's set, by way of a thank you, the singer and keyboard player Matt Johnson got the crowd to chant ''Yeah!'' for Mr. Carlson.
 But he didn't hear: he was upstairs, partying in the green room.
 At 3:30 a.m., when his friends headed to a nearby bar for a final drink, Mr. Carlson stood outside the deserted bus, and took stock: he was nearly $40,000 in debt, with no real idea of how to pay off what was owed. 
 ''If we pull this off, I'll be happy,'' he had said at the start of the tour. Now, he was more realistic. ''I'm ecstatic that it's over,'' he said. ''I'm not regretting anything, but maybe I should have rethought and changed little things.''
 Still, Mr. Carlson had gained equity with club managers and bookers, and cemented his relationships with the bands. ''He finished the tour that he set out to do,'' Mr. Bongiovanni of Pollstar said, ''and in that sense it's a success.'' 
 A few days later, Mr. Carlson returned to the record store in Los Angeles, already looking for two more jobs to make ends meet. The festival would be going on in August, but for only one day. Yet Mr. Carlson was already concocting plans for more ambitious tours, or maybe an all-ages club someday. 
 ''It's not about the money,'' he said of his career. ''You do it because you have a love for music, and a love for what you do. I know in the future it will pan out.'' 
 Now all he has to do is hustle. And wait.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sean Carlson, foreground, and other members of his team in Los Angeles, before the start of a cross-country bus tour that planned 28 multiband rock shows in 25 cities in 27 days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
STARTS AND STOPS: Above, Sean Carlson before the tour he promoted, at his job at a music store
right, unloading the rental truck outside the Highline Ballroom in Manhattan for the tour's penultimate show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
NO FRIES WITH THAT: Left, Mr. Carlson flanked by his friends and assistants Jonathan Gilbert and Phil Hoelting, and a cache of soybean oil
above, a text message from Mr. Carlson's mother asking for updates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIGAR MEHTA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ROAD'S END Above, the tour's manager, Malia James, on its last night in Brooklyn as Mr. Carlson, left, spoke with Mr. Hoelting
 right, fans at the show lifted Ran Shimoni of Monotonix on his drum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); FESTIVALS (75%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (58%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (58%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



775 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: It's Why We Read, Online and Off

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Literacy Debate: Online, R U Really Reading?'' (''The Future of Reading'' series, front page, July 27):
 Most of us read all the time: road signs, recipes, people's expressions. But sometimes reading is for purposes other than simply gaining information. 
 The teenagers mentioned in the article who eschew books in favor of online text may be well informed and may interact with others every day, but they lack the experience of ''reading'' that a literary narrative provides. 
 When reading is reduced to meaning only the acquisition of information, it is no surprise to find that minds are impoverished. Do you agree or disagree with ''Jane Eyre''? With ''Hamlet''? With ''Their Eyes Were Watching God''? The question is meaningless, beside the point. 
 As more and more people fail to ''read,'' it becomes easier for the powerful to hoodwink them because extended narratives disappear, to be replaced by the quick conclusions available in a Google search. We no longer see that we are repeating old narratives, no longer see how we got to where we are. 
 To engage with democratic processes -- to participate in making difficult decisions or answering challenging questions (shall we go to war? whose fault is poverty?) -- requires the ability to examine multiple perspectives, to hold conflicting ideas simultaneously in the mind. 
 Such qualities of thought are practiced and honed by reading, not by scanning text for information. 
 As readers have become replaced by users, so our ability to understand what happens in our name will continue to be diminished.
 Mark Hussey Nyack, N.Y., July 27, 2008
 The writer is a professor of English at Pace University.
 To the Editor:
 I wonder if the invention of the printing press in 1440 had experts of the day crying out that reading and writing were dead. 
 Pleasure literacy, academic literacy, cultural literacy and informational literacy are all different genres, and we should welcome new sources with delight. 
 As a lifelong reader, writer and teacher, and now a technological neophyte, I am pleased to be able to find the information I need so easily and quickly on the Internet rather than spending hours in library stacks as I used to do.
 Our young people are not in danger because they are experimenting with literacy in a new form. 
 So what if it obsesses them for the time being? That's what adolescence is all about. In maturity, they will have skills, knowledge and interests their parents only dreamed about. 
 Joanne Yatvin Portland, Ore., July 27, 2008
 The writer is a former president of the National Council of Teachers of English.
 To the Editor:
 Show me the things on the Internet that compare with Sherlock Holmes's deadly confrontation with Moriarty, the final scene with the titular spider in ''Charlotte's Web,'' Winston Smith's self-betrayal in ''1984,'' the brilliance of John D. MacDonald's Travis McGee novels, the anger and the love and the sorrow of Harlan Ellison's stories, the wordy mirth of Rex Stout's brownstoned Nero Wolfe, Philip Jose Farmer's Riverworld series, Tarzan, the Spenser mysteries, Roland of Gilead, Little Bear, Big Max, Martha and George. And that's just one bookcase.
 Show me humanity writ large on the Internet, and I'll stop having any truck with these heavy, burdensome books. 
 Until then, please stop encouraging the endorsement of this ''greasy kid's stuff'' as anything other than what it was described as in the article: an addiction. And an addiction, by definition, is not beneficial.
 Alex Dering Princeton, N.J., July 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I struggle mightily with the book versus digital reading issue. I see the view that reading is reading. I know our real and reading world has changed dramatically. 
 But reading a book -- Shakespeare's ''As You Like It,'' Kate Chopin's ''Awakening'' -- is more of a lasting aesthetic experience than reading the Internet, which is a more ephemeral, economic lure. 
 Books ask us to pause, imagine, shush; the Internet says don't think much, buy, rush. 
 So, yes, there's a new kind of reader in town, but please give me Shakespeare and even Jonathan Swift now and forever, and let me take more time to decide on Internet swift. 
 Reading is reading is not always reading.
 John Gabriel Chicago, July 27, 2008
 The writer is the chairman of the teacher education department at DePaul University.
 To the Editor:
 The crucial issue might not be how one reads (in print or online), but what one reads (something important or trivial). 
 It probably does not matter in what form one reads a ''great book,'' but time is more likely better spent with it than with a book or article of lesser significance. 
 But to read an important book is not enough. One should examine and understand it, assess its relevance and credibility, and then answer this question: What have I learned of value from it?
 Brad Bradford Upper Arlington, Ohio, July 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Is reading the nutrition information on a bag of potato chips ''reading''? What about the box score for a Yankees game or closed captions on a TV program? 
 People have always been able to read in different media and circumstances. What's important is the person's purpose in reading, not the medium itself. 
 Are you looking for specific information, following a historical narrative or savoring the language in a Jane Austen novel? 
 There's very little reading that can be done in one medium (the Internet) but not in the other (traditional print). The rest is all convenience. 
 It's harder on the Internet to stumble on those small interesting stories in the back of a newspaper, but it's easier to find specific facts. There's no single answer to which is better, but it's all good.
 Mark Seidenberg Madison, Wis., July 29, 2008
 The writer is a professor of psychology at the University of Wisconsin.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (89%); LITERATURE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (50%) OREGON, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



776 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: A Volatile Session Ends on an Up Note

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Despite a sharp rise in oil prices Wednesday, stocks rallied after the promise of more support from the Federal Reserve gave investors confidence that financial firms would work through their problems. 
 The Dow Jones industrials rose 186.13 points, or 1.63 percent, to 11,583.69. On Tuesday, the blue chips jumped 266 points, more than recouping a nearly 240-point loss from the previous session.
 Broader stock indicators also surged. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 21.07 points, or 1.67 percent, to 1,284.26, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 10.10 points, or 0.44 percent, to 2,329.72.
 It was the third consecutive triple-digit move for the Dow, reflecting the volatility -- and uncertainty -- that remains in the markets. Investors cannot seem to make up their minds about whether the tight credit market that has plagued Wall Street will abate or worsen.
 The confusion was evident throughout the session, as the Dow gave up nearly all of its morning gains in the early afternoon. The sell-off stemmed from a sharp jump in oil prices, which gained $4.58, or 3.7 percent, to end the day at $126.77 a barrel in New York trading. Investors bought up crude oil futures after the government said that American fuel stockpiles unexpectedly fell last week.
 ''The market seems to be suffering from bipolar disorder as it cycles between mania and depression on a weekly and even daily basis,'' Edward Yardeni, the investment strategist, wrote on Wednesday morning. ''During the manic days, the price of oil tends to drop, while financials rally. During the depressed days, financials tend to drop.''
 In a slight wrinkle to that pattern on Wednesday, shares of investment and commercial banks moved higher, extending a seesaw cycle that began with a painful plunge on Monday and turned into a rally on Tuesday. Morgan Stanley gained nearly 6 percent; JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs were up more than 2 percent.
 Investors seemed soothed by news that the Fed will allow investment banks to have access to its lending window at least through next year, extending a crucial source of liquidity that has helped prop up the financial sector since the near collapse of Bear Stearns in March. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission also announced that it would extend its restrictions on short-selling for a select group of financial stocks, including the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and 17 major Wall Street investment banks. The short-selling restrictions will now last until Aug. 12. Fannie and Freddie ended the day higher after slipping in and out of positive territory.
 Investors may also have been reacting to an optimistic report on the labor market released by a private group, Automatic Data Processing. The group estimated that 9,000 private jobs were added to the nation's payrolls in July, far above economists' estimates. But the report is not considered authoritative, and the Labor Department is expected to show a loss of about 75,000 jobs when its own report is released on Friday.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury bond was unchanged Wednesday at 98 24/32, and its yield remained at 4.04 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (69%); DEPRESSION (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); ADP (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



777 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Decline Seen In Numbers Of People Here Illegally

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
The number of illegal immigrants in the country has dropped by as much 1.3 million in the past year, an 11 percent decline since a historic peak last August, an immigration research group in Washington said in a report released Wednesday.
 The report, by Steven A. Camarota and Karen Jensenius of the Center for Immigration Studies, found ''strong indications'' that stepped-up enforcement by immigration authorities had played a major role in the decline. 
 The report, which is based on monthly census surveys as recent as May, added to a growing body of studies indicating that the population of illegal immigrants in the United States is dropping significantly. 
 The study's methods and conclusions were questioned by other demographers and economists, who said the decline might be less than the center reported and was more likely the result of the weak economy, especially in low-wage construction and manufacturing where illegal immigrants are generally employed.
 ''The decline can easily be explained by changes in the economy,'' said Steve Levy, senior economist at the Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto. He said California had lost 134,000 construction jobs since the summer of 2006. 
 ''The housing sector woes and weakening economy have been known for a long time and can explain why unauthorized immigrants would stop coming and why some of those here would leave,'' Mr. Levy said.
 The Center for Immigration Studies is a policy advocacy group that favors reduced immigration and opposes legislation to give legal status to illegal immigrants. The study supports the center's contention that border enforcement and a crackdown on unauthorized workers and their employers would lead many illegal immigrants to leave the United States without being deported. 
 ''The evidence presented here suggests that it has been possible to cut the illegal population by inducing a large number of people to leave the country,'' the study said. 
 Federal immigration officials praised the results. ''It reinforces what we always thought, that comprehensive enforcement is a critical part of the reduction,'' said Kelly A. Nantel, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. 
 The arguments provoked by the study reflected the difficulties of discussing options for stemming illegal immigration, when researchers cannot agree on how many illegal immigrants there are and how they are affected by immigration enforcement. 
 Mr. Camarota and Ms. Jensenius based their findings on census figures for foreign-born Hispanics ages 18 to 40 with a high school degree or less. They estimated that three-quarters of those Hispanics were illegal immigrants, and that they made up about two-thirds of the illegal immigrants in the United States.
 Using those estimates, they concluded that the illegal immigrant population had dropped to 11.2 million, from a historic high of 12.5 million in August 2007. 
 Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington who studies illegal immigration, said his research also showed a decline in immigrants. But because of recent changes in the census's data reporting, he said it was too soon to make precise calculations. 
 Wayne Cornelius, director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San Diego, said Mr. Camarota and Ms. Jensenius had applied ''highly arguable assumptions'' to their data. 
 ''They offer no direct evidence that fewer undocumented immigrants are attempting to come to the United States, or that fewer of them are getting in, or that more of those already here are leaving the United States as a result of enforcement efforts,'' said Mr. Cornelius, who has studied the impact of border enforcement over the past 15 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CENSUS (77%); DEPORTATION (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LEGISLATION (64%); EVIDENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



778 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Nissan Offering Buyouts to Cut About 1,200 Jobs in Tennessee

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: NASHVILLE 

 BODY:
Nissan North America said Wednesday that it would offer buyouts to about 6,000 employees at the company's two plants in Tennessee and eliminate a night shift at a plant because fuel prices and the economic downturn have slowed sales of trucks and sport utility vehicles. 
 The technicians and salaried employees at the assembly plant in Smyrna and the powertrain plant in Decherd will be offered a lump sum of $100,000 or $125,000 depending on tenure, as well as medical and car-buying benefits, the company said.
 A Nissan spokesman, Fred Standish, said that even though the company was ending night-shift truck production effective Aug. 11, it did not plan any layoffs.
 ''We've never laid off anybody in Smyrna and we don't intend to do it now,'' Mr. Standish said.
 He said employees on the shift to be eliminated were expected to either take buyouts or move into jobs that open as other workers take the buyouts.
 ''There's going to be a lot of movement and realignment,'' he said.
 The two plants have about 1,200 more employees than they need, he said.
 About 775 employees at the two plants took a buyout last year. That package included a $45,000 lump sum payment and $500 for every year of service.
 Of the more generous package being offered this year, Mr. Standish said, ''More incentive speaks for itself. We need to get our size of employment right vis-a-vis the market.''
 Employees who accept the buyout before the Sept. 12 deadline can choose whether they want to participate in 2008, 2009 or 2010, according to a company statement. Employees also can sign up again in 2009 and in 2010, but the benefits will not be as generous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE POWER TRAIN MFG (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

COMPANY: NISSAN NORTH AMERICA INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



779 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: Strong Economy Propels Brazil to World Stage

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Mery Galanternick contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro.

DATELINE: FORTALEZA, Brazil 

 BODY:
Desperate to escape her hand-to-mouth existence in one of Brazil's poorest regions, Maria Benedita Sousa used a small loan five years ago to buy two sewing machines and start her own business making women's underwear.
 Today Ms. Sousa, a mother of three who started out working in a jeans factory making minimum wage, employs 25 people in a modest two-room factory that produces 55,000 pairs of cotton underwear a month. She bought and renovated a house for her family and is now thinking of buying a second car. Her daughter, who is studying to be a pharmacist, could be the first family member to finish college.
 ''You can't imagine the happiness I am feeling,'' Ms. Sousa, 43, said from the floor of her business, Big Mateus, named after a son. ''I am someone who came from the countryside to the city. I battled and battled, and today my children are studying, with one in college and two others in school. It's a gift from God.''
 Today her country is lifting itself up in much the same way. Brazil, South America's largest economy, is finally poised to realize its long-anticipated potential as a global player, economists say, as the country rides its biggest economic expansion in three decades. 
 That growth is being felt in nearly all parts of the economy, creating a new class of super rich even as people like Ms. Sousa lift themselves into an expanding middle class. 
 It has also given Brazil new swagger, providing it, for instance, with greater leverage to push for a tougher bargain with the United States and Europe in global trade talks. After seven years, those negotiations finally broke down this week over demands by India and China for safeguards for their farmers, a clear sign of the rising clout of these emerging economies. 
 Despite investor fears about the leftist bent of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva when he was elected to lead Brazil in 2002, he has demonstrated a light touch when it comes to economic stewardship, avoiding the populist impulses of leaders in Venezuela and Bolivia. 
 Instead, he has fueled Brazil's growth through a deft combination of respect for financial markets and targeted social programs, which are lifting millions out of poverty, said David Fleischer, a political analyst and emeritus professor at the University of Brasilia. Ms. Sousa is one such beneficiary.
 Long famous for its unequal distribution of wealth, Brazil has shrunk its income gap by six percentage points since 2001, more than any other country in South America this decade, said Francisco Ferreira, a lead economist at the World Bank. 
 While the top 10 percent of Brazil's earners saw their cumulative income rise by 7 percent from 2001 to 2006, the bottom 10 percent shot up by 58 percent, according to Marcelo Cortes Neri, the director of the Center for Social Policies at the Getulio Vargas Foundation in Rio de Janeiro.
 But Brazil is also outspending most of its neighbors on social programs, and overall public spending continues to be nearly four times as high as what Mexico spends as a percentage of its gross national product, Mr. Ferreira said.
 The momentum of its economic expansion is expected to last. As the United States and parts of Europe struggle with recession and the fallout from housing crises, Brazil's economy shows few of the vulnerabilities of other emerging powers. 
 It has greatly diversified its industrial base, has huge potential to expand a booming agricultural sector into virgin fields and holds a tremendous pool of untapped natural resources. New oil discoveries will thrust Brazil into the ranks of the global oil powers within the next decade. 
 Yet while exports of commodities like oil and agricultural goods have driven much of its recent growth, Brazil is less and less dependent on them, economists say, having the advantage of a huge domestic market -- 185 million people -- that has grown wealthier with the success of people like Ms. Sousa. 
 In fact, with a stronger currency and inflation mostly in check, Brazilians are on a spending spree that has become a prime motor for the economy, which grew 5.4 percent last year.
 They are buying both Brazilian goods and a rising flood of imported products. Many businesses have relaxed credit terms to allow Brazilians to pay for refrigerators, cars and even plastic surgery over years instead of months, despite some of the highest interest rates in the world. In June the country reached 100 million credit cards issued, a 17 percent jump over last year.
 At Casas Bahia, a modestly priced Brazilian furniture-store chain, the number of customers buying items on installment nearly tripled to 29.3 million from 2002 to 2007, said Sonia Mitaini, a company spokeswoman.
 Other signs of new wealth abound. In Macae, an oil boomtown near Rio de Janeiro, contractors are racing to finish new shopping malls and luxury housing to keep up with demand from oil-service firms. At a port in Angra dos Reis, a town known for its spectacular islands, some 25,000 workers have found jobs building oil platforms.
 Petrobras, Brazil's national oil company, shocked the oil world in November when it announced that its Tupi deepwater field offshore of Rio de Janeiro could hold five billion to eight billion barrels of oil. Analysts think there could be billions of barrels more in surrounding areas. 
 While the oil will be expensive and complicated to extract, Petrobras has said it expects to be producing up to 100,000 barrels a day from Tupi by 2010, and hopes to produce up to a million barrels a day in about a decade.
 The new oil plays are setting off an investment boom in Rio de Janeiro, with an estimated $67.6 billion expected to flow into the state by 2010, according to the Rio de Janeiro State Federation of Industries, an industry group. Petrobras alone expects to invest $40.5 billion by 2012.
 Some economists say a slowdown in the rest of the world's economy, especially in Asia, which is soaking up much of Brazil's exports of soybeans and iron ore, could crimp growth here. ''But that probability is small,'' said Alfredo Coutino, the senior economist for Latin America for Moody's Economy.com. 
 In fact, because Brazil's economy has become so diversified in recent years, the country is less susceptible to a hangover from the struggling United States economy. 
 Brazil's exports to the United States represent just 2.5 percent of Brazil's gross national product, compared with 25 percent of G.N.P. for Mexican exports, according to Moody's. 
 ''What makes Brazil more resilient is that the rest of the world matters less,'' said Don Hanna, the head of emerging market economics at Citibank.
 The rest of the world certainly has helped. Soaring prices for minerals and other commodities have created a new class of super rich. The number of Brazilians with liquid fortunes exceeding $1 million grew by 19 percent last year, third behind China and India, according to a survey by Merrill Lynch and Capgemini.
 At the same time, President da Silva has deepened many of the social programs begun 10 years ago under Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who as president ushered in many of the structural reforms that laid the foundations of Brazil's stable growth today.
 In Ms. Sousa's case, for instance, she owes much of the success of her underwear business to loans she has received from the Bank of the Northeast, a government-financed bank that has awarded microloans to 330,000 people to develop businesses in this fast-growing region.
 Other programs, like Bolsa Familia, give small subsidies to millions of poor Brazilians to buy food and other essentials. Bolsa Familia, which benefits 45 million people nationwide in distributingan annual budget of about $5.6 billion, has been far more effective at raising per-capita incomes than recent increases in the minimum wage, which has risen 36 percent since 2003.
 The bottom-up nature of such social programs has helped expand formal and informal employment as well as the Brazilian middle class. The number of people under the poverty line -- defined as those earning less than $80 a month -- fell by 32 percent from 2004 to 2006, Mr. Neri said. 
 The programs have been particularly effective here in Brazil's northeast, historically one of poorest parts of the country. Residents here have received more than half the $15.6 billion doled out in social programs from 2003 to 2006, according to Empresa de Pesquisa Energetica, an arm of the Energy Ministry.
 People here are using that new wealth to buy items like televisions and refrigerators at a faster rate than the rest of the country. The northeast, in fact, passed the country's south in electricity use this year for the first time, the energy agency said.
 Many families have bridged the gap to the middle class by using Bolsa Familia to meet basic needs, and then applying for small loans to start businesses and escape the informal economy. That is what Maria Auxiliadora Sampaio and her husband did in Fortaleza, a coastal city of 2.4 million people. They were receiving Bolsa Familia payments of about $30 a month, which they used to support their three children. Then, two years ago, Ms. Sampaio used a microloan of about $190 to buy nail polish and kick-start her manicure business, which she runs from home. 
 Today she is making around $70 a day -- about four minimum salaries per month, she said. With her next loan she plans to put about $140 toward a stove to sterilize nail clippers, which today she does with hot water. 
 The fruits of her new business have allowed the couple to retile their house and buy a television and a cellphone. This month her husband, who works at a Cachaca factory, was able to realize a dream: to buy a drum set. 
 He plans to use it in a band that plays forro, a traditional music in the northeast. ''We always ate and paid bills, but he waited and waited,'' and finally bought the set for about $780, she said.
 ''I feel like we are part of this group of people that are coming up in the world,'' said Ms. Sampaio, 28. ''When you don't have anything, when you don't have a profession, don't have the means to live, you are no one, you are a mosquito. I was nothing. Today, I am in heaven.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Microloans have helped people like Maria Auxiliadora Sampaio, left, start businesses and feed Brazil's growing economy. Ms. Sampaio runs a salon in her home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDERSON SCHNEIDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Maria Benedita Sousa, center, began her underwear business with just two sewing machines. Today she has 25 employees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDERSON SCHNEIDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Recent oil discoveries off the coast of Rio de Janeiro State have led to a construction boom in the port town of Angra dos Reis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS ENGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) MAP: Residents of Fortaleza have gained in the economic boom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); LINGERIE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); POLITICS (61%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



780 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 313 words

 BODY:
SHRINKING PAYCHECKS More than 3.7 million Americans have seen their full-time hours reduced to part time because of the weakened economy, the government reported. 
 DRUG GUIDELINES The Food and Drug Administration has ordered changes to the labels of anemia drugs sold by Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, restricting their use in cancer patients. [C1.] 
 TRADE TALKS The recriminations over the collapse of global trade negotiations grew increasingly bitter as the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, left, and other negotiators pointed fingers at each other. [C1.]
 BAD TIMING A record number of hotels are opening this year, but occupancy rates are falling in much of the United States. [C1.]
 LISTEN UP Two companies make tiny, wireless earpieces that let you and a friend have a spoken, hands-free conversation. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 ACCOUNTING DELAY The Financial Accounting Standards Board delayed until 2010 a rule aimed at forcing banks to put more assets on their balance sheets. [C2.]
 TOBACCO BILL The House approved legislation that would give the Food and Drug Administration the authority to regulate tobacco products. [C2.]
 SICKOUT LAWSUIT United Airlines asked a federal judge to stop its pilots from abusing sick time and refusing to fly extra hours, saying it has caused hundreds of cancellations. [C3.]
 RATINGS FIRMS SUED Connecticut accused the Moody's Corporation, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings of unfair trade practices that cost state and local governments millions of dollars. [C3.]
 MORE CUTS European Aeronautic Defense & Space, the parent of the aviation giant Airbus, said it would extend its cost-cutting program and cut another 1 billion euros in 2011 and 2012. [C3.]
 BEATING EXPECTATIONS The Walt Disney Company said its third-quarter profit rose 8.5 percent as its theme parks withstood the slowing economy. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (75%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); CANCER (72%); ANEMIA (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); LITIGATION (71%); AIRLINES (71%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (71%); BUSINESS TORTS (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (67%); JUDGES (66%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (56%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (82%); MOODY'S CORP (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); WALT DISNEY CO (65%); AMGEN INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); AIRBUS SAS (54%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (56%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (82%); EAD (MCE) (82%); MCO (NYSE) (82%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); DIS (NYSE) (65%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (82%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (65%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (65%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (65%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



781 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: She's Ready: Just Add Water

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

DATELINE: Cummington, Mass. 

 BODY:
 ONE Friday afternoon a few weeks ago, as cable news channels carried bulletins that two government-sponsored mortgage lenders might go bankrupt, Kathy Harrison stood in the kitchen of her two-story, 19th-century farmhouse here, about 20 miles northwest of Northampton, laying out herbs from the garden. 
 With commentators throwing around phrases like ''mortgage meltdown'' and ''peak oil,'' the American economy seemed, at least to some, at the edge of an abyss, but all was calm in the Harrison household. Two loaves of bread, baked fresh that morning, sat on the counter. Mrs. Harrison's daughters, Karen, 14, and Phoebe, 5, were laughing and playing dress-up, while her husband, Bruce, 62, stood at his wife's side. 
 Plenty of Americans, to be sure, have kept their cool in the face of the recent crises, believing that troubles bubbling up around them will not, in the end, be all that severe; or will not touch their own lives in a significant way; or, if they are and if they do -- well, that's a bridge to cross later. The obvious peace of mind in the Harrison household is of a different order, and has something to do with the provisions Mrs. Harrison has stockpiled throughout the house, which include cans of powdered milk; several hundred pounds of wheat berry, oats, flour and rice; water purification tablets; shelves of toothpaste and toilet paper; a solar oven; packs of hermetically sealed seeds; and other items to sustain the family in an emergency. 
 Mrs. Harrison believes in home preparedness, and after readying her own home for a worst-case scenario -- be it a flood or a nuclear or bioterrorist attack -- she has written a book, ''Just in Case: How to Be Self-Sufficient When the Unexpected Happens'' (Storey Publishing, $16.95), to help others do the same. 
 Written in the information-rich style of a manual, the book is full of practical tips. What affordable bedding preserves heat best? PrimaLoft comforters, according to Mrs. Harrison's informal tests. What company makes ''the Cadillac of nonelectric lamps,'' using kerosene? Aladdin, Mrs. Harrison notes. 
 Her wisdom is delivered in a tone of pioneer optimism. ''In a time of crisis you want to start the day with a good breakfast,'' she writes, introducing a recipe for something called cornmeal mush. The book, which draws on Mrs. Harrison's wide reading in the literature of preparedness, as well as books on narrower subjects like canning, cheesemaking and felling trees, is notable for discussing what to do in the event of a chemical attack without detouring into panic-mongering territory. 
 ''I don't expect someone to drop a nuke on me,'' said Mrs. Harrison, 56, an energetic and upbeat woman who calls herself a prepper rather than a doomer. ''But after 9/11 -- and certainly after Hurricane Katrina -- I realized that, holy smoke, the cavalry doesn't always charge in to rescue you.'' 
 Mrs. Harrison became interested in preparedness almost 30 years ago, when she and her husband were caretakers of the William Cullen Bryant homestead in Cummington and lived miles from the nearest store. She grew more serious about it two years ago, after they attended a local film night and saw ''The End of Suburbia,'' about what would happen if oil became scarce. She formed a group with some neighbors to promote self-reliance, and to trade tips and equipment. 
 ''I've got a wicked good grain grinder,'' Mrs. Harrison said. ''Anyone who wants to come over and grind grain can do that.'' 
 Unlike preparedness advocates who stockpile weaponry, the Harrisons do not own a gun -- ''I don't want to shoot anybody,'' Mrs. Harrison said. 
 ''There are many people in the preparedness world that can get into the mind-set of 'I've got to take care of myself,' '' said Alice Cozzolino, a co-owner of the Old Creamery Grocery in Cummington and a member of the local group. ''Kathy's approach is about learning these skills so we can prepare ourselves as a community and get through whatever is thrown at us.''
 After reading other books on the subject, all of them seemingly geared to the Soldier of Fortune crowd or to Mormons, who for religious reasons believe in keeping a year's supply of food, Mrs. Harrison wrote ''Just in Case'' for the average homeowner, who she contends is in serious need of preparedness training. 
 Her tone shifts from chipper to mildly scolding when discussing how Americans, in her words, ''sold out to easy'' -- owning a closetful of clothes but never learning to sew a button; driving everywhere but being unable to change a tire. Touring the Harrison house is a sobering experience for the pampered consumer. 
 As she led this visitor down a rickety set of steps and into the kind of dank basement that is decorated mostly by cobwebs, Mrs. Harrison said, almost jauntily: ''This will never be a basement where people play Ping-Pong or watch TV.'' 
 Opening a storage cabinet, she pointed to supplies like a pressure canner, assorted canned goods and enough cooking oil to open a restaurant. Asked about all that oil, Mrs. Harrison replied: ''What if there's a truckers' strike?''
 Fair enough. But these hardly seem like the kind of reserves that could sustain a family for several months. 
 ''Let's go upstairs,'' she said, marching up two flights of steps and stopping in front of a second-floor closet. Inside was the waiting-out-the-apocalypse mother lode: containers of freeze-dried whole eggs, freeze-dried green beans, cornstarch, butter powder, cheese powder, powdered milk. By her estimate, the supplies in the house could last the family six months or more.
 Much of the food was in powder form and looked unappetizing, but Mrs. Harrison said it is important to cook with your backup supply regularly, as she does -- using powdered milk on a daily basis, for example -- because ''in an emergency you don't want everything to be strange.'' Mrs. Harrison said she does not view such practices as a sacrifice, adding that the brand she uses is ''the Cadillac of powdered milk.''
 Kneeling down and opening a crawl space off of the ''preparedness extra room'' (as she calls a bedroom given over to sewing supplies and extra beds), Mrs. Harrison pulled out bucket after bucket of basic staples like wheat and rice. ''I just ordered another hundred pounds of sugar and flour,'' she said, explaining that she continually replaces what she has used. It is part of a system she calls OAR: Organize, Acquire, Rotate. 
 In her own transition to preparedness, Mrs. Harrison did not need to upend her lifestyle. She is an avid gardener who cans fruits and vegetables, and she long ago learned to stretch resources while raising seven children by birth and adoption and an everchanging group of foster children (she wrote an earlier book about foster parenting, ''Another Place at the Table''). Mr. Harrison, meanwhile, is the kind of flinty and resourceful New Englander who can make an oven from a pizza box and tin foil. The main inconvenience was the expense; she said the emergency food and medical supplies, both on hand and what has been consumed in the past two years, cost about $3,000. 
 Moreover, the family is geographically blessed: the house is not in a high risk area for earthquakes, fires or floods, and far from any obvious terrorist targets. It sits on two acres of tillable land; an adjacent stream provides potable water. 
 So what are Mrs. Harrison's preparedness recommendations for urbanites who possess neither the storage space for buckets of powdered milk and dehydrated beets nor the inclination to consume anything that isn't haute cuisine?
 ''I'd invest in a water filter -- and look for a way out,'' she said, laughing. ''What can I tell you? I'm not a city girl.'' Turning serious, Mrs. Harrison said that even in a small city apartment you could stockpile a few weeks' worth of water and nonperishable food like peanut butter, and that buying a crank radio to hear newscasts and a bike or motor scooter to get around was a good idea. 
 Back downstairs, Mrs. Harrison showed off a furnace in the living room that runs on propane and has a cook top; a 500-gallon propane tank sits outside, providing several months' supply of fuel. (They are scrupulous about keeping it full.)
 When asked what she would do if the family had to suddenly evacuate the house, Mrs. Harrison walked to the mudroom, where backpacks hung on pegs, one for each family member, each containing a variety of supplies like water, tinder and flashlights. If the packs are combined with another, larger pack kept in the car, they form a kind of family survival superpack. 
 Scanning the pegs, Mrs. Harrison's brow furrowed. ''Karen, where's your pack?'' she said to her daughter. 
 Karen looked sheepish. ''Um, up in my room.'' 
 ''You know your pack belongs here,'' Mrs. Harrison said kindly but firmly. 
 Sitting at the kitchen table later, Mrs. Harrison admitted that it was hard to get her family on board at first, especially her husband, who, until he was 7, grew up in a house without electricity or running water. ''I already lived it,'' Mr. Harrison said. 
 Karen added, ''Eating the same food over and over was difficult for me.''
 Mrs. Harrison's face widened into the look of amused exasperation that parents get just before imparting an important life lesson to their children. 
 ''Eating leftovers stretches your food,'' she said to no one in particular, ''but it also makes you realize that not everything is going to be shiny and new.'' 
 The contents of the survival packs had been emptied on the kitchen table. There were mess kits, scissors, raisins, juice-box-style packs of water, a Leatherman multitool, a poncho, long-burning candles -- items a home might contain, only miniaturized and laden with a kind of doomsday gloom. 
 ''The odds of me picking this stuff up are next to nothing,'' Mrs. Harrison said, adding that she is optimistic about the future. ''But if I'm going to practice preparedness I want to do it wholly.'' 
 Meanwhile, on a cable news channel, a commentator was saying that if the United States ran out of gasoline, the country's food supply chain would grind to a halt in nine days.
 PREPARED, FRUGAL AND PRACTICAL
 FIGURE OUT YOUR VULNERABILITIES ''We all need food, water and shelter,'' said Kathy Harrison, the author of ''Just in Case: How to Be Self-Sufficient When the Unexpected Happens.'' ''But the needs of a family in west Texas in July are vastly different than the needs of a family in western Massachusetts in January. You have to think about what you're preparing for.''
 PREPAREDNESS DOESN'T HAVE TO BE EXPENSIVE To lessen the cost (and sticker shock) of stockpiling food and supplies, Mrs. Harrison recommends buying in small increments. ''When you go to the grocery store buy a few extra items,'' she said. ''You're adding $10 to your grocery bill because you bought canned peaches on sale.'' Water can be stored in cleaned two-liter soda bottles. 
 DON'T BUY ECONOMY SIZES OF ITEMS THAT NEED REFRIGERATION ''What are you going to do with gallons of salad dressing if the electricity goes out?'' Mrs. Harrison said. Instead, she advises buying foods that require refrigeration after being opened (like mayonnaise) in small quantities, so they can be consumed within a day or two. 
 BEYOND BREAD ALONE Mrs. Harrison says that including comfort foods like pudding or Jell-O in reserves can brighten a family's spirits, and she recommends keeping nonelectronic forms of entertainment like books and games on hand. ''And think about having extra supplies of soap, toothpaste, shampoo and toilet paper,'' she added, as well as extra pet food and supplies for those with pets. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BETTER SAFE ...: Kathy Harrison's disaster preparedness includes stockpiling powdered food and staying upbeat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEWART CAIRNS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
 LIVING FOR TOMORROW: Karen Harrison, left, and her sister, Phoebe, above, organize backpack supplies. The packs are kept on pegs in case the family has to evacuate. A solar oven, left, is among the pieces of equipment Kathy Harrison has invested in to sustain her family in an emergency. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEWART CAIRNS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); WRITERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (63%); TERRORISM (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ust in Case: How to Be Self-Sufficient When the Unexpected Happens (Book)>; ust in Case: How to Be Self-Sufficient When the Unexpected Happens (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



782 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PRACTICALLY SPEAKING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: The Nimble Exploit Little Efficiencies

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
IT has been a bruiser of a summer for small businesses that must use the roads every day.
 Gasoline prices may have moderated a bit lately, but business owners are still smarting from the run-up in prices this year. 
 John Nicholson, owner of Company Flowers & Gifts Too in Arlington, Va., was on Capitol Hill this week to tell members of Congress how his business has had to absorb higher costs. 
 ''Higher gas for our van alone runs more than $12 per delivery,'' he said, though he added that so far he has kept delivery charges at $9.50. ''We don't want to discourage our customers from sending flowers.'' 
 Still, he added, ''after a while I guess we'll have to raise prices.'' 
 Plumbers, contractors, data couriers, florists, limousine companies and other small and midsize businesses that rely on driving are adapting to a volatile landscape in different ways -- whether through higher prices or creative, long-term fixes. Energy prices are still high enough, and the economy slow enough, that the changes made in the last few months by those businesses may well stick. 
 ''As the economic outcome remains uncertain, small-business owners are searching for innovative ways to reduce expenses and increase sales,'' said Bruce D. Phillips, senior fellow at the National Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation.
 In fact, the business owners say they are glad to make adjustments before the next problem arises. ''You can only see into the future so much,'' said David Rosenthal of Rosenthal Plumbing in Santa Cruz, Calif. 
 Every six months or so Mr. Rosenthal tries crystal-ball gazing when it comes to fuel prices. If he's wrong about how much it will rise -- as he was this time with his recently published price list of services -- then his company has to offset the difference. ''I don't want to inflate prices to where it's uncomfortable to our client base,'' he said.
 So Rosenthal Plumbing adopted global positioning system technology this summer to track its fleet of service trucks so it can deploy them more efficiently and increase the number of jobs technicians can handle in a day. It will soon install mobile navigation devices in each truck so that his employees can find the fastest routes and save on fuel.
 The high gas prices this year cemented a decision by Sam's Limousine and Transportation in Houston to head in a new direction. It decided to sell its last two limousines, which seat eight. Replacing them are other vehicles to transport passengers, including party buses, sport utility vehicles and Town Cars. 
 The party buses seat 16 to 20 passengers and have, according to the company's Web site, ''soft, black leather couch seating, a mirrored stargazer ceiling, opera lighting, laser lighting, strobe lighting, DVD screens and a custom stereo and sound system.'' 
 Ron Jones, vice president of the company, said he has recently seen ''an increase in larger groups pitching in and going out together,'' which makes the $130-an-hour rate affordable for a night out. 
 ''This is something that's been going on for a year now,'' Mr. Jones said. ''We have completely changed how we do business'' to accommodate those groups by buying four buses this year.
 What small-business owners say they fear is that they will lose customers because of higher costs, putting even more pressure on their bottom line. In a recent survey by American Express, the percentage of business owners reporting that they have lost sales, for reasons like an inability to deliver an order, has doubled to 35 percent from 17 percent last fall. 
 The semiannual telephone survey of a representative sample of 621 owners this spring found that small-business owners are being squeezed by higher energy and gasoline costs. A third said they had raised prices, up from 26 percent who had reported raising prices last fall. 
 RDS Delivery Service in New York, for instance, has raised prices because of fuel this year. If not for its moves to diversify the business over the last decade, it would be suffering the typical summer slowdown, plus the ill effects of rising fuel, which have hurt its small-business customers. 
 Larry Zogby, its president, said the family-owned company added document storage and retrieval 10 years ago as well as critical parts storage five years ago to its courier businesses. The newest service, pick and pack, allows customers to store goods in its warehouses and have RDS pack orders and deliver them upon request. 
 The idea of this diversification is to build a ''longer and deeper relationship'' with customers, he said, and of course, not be completely reliant on its main business -- messenger and courier services in the New York region. 
 This summer, he said, he has seen more than a few smaller customers go out of business. One owner told him, ''If you're flat, you're ahead of the game.''
 The National Federation of Independent Business Research Foundation, which surveys more than 3,500 owners via mail every four years about problems of greatest concern, reported in June that energy costs, excluding electricity, were the second most pressing concern after the cost of health insurance. Energy jumped two spots from the earlier survey.
 The primary energy expenditure for 38 percent of the companies responding to the survey was to operate vehicles. Most small businesses cannot afford to switch to more energy-efficient vehicles, the authors said.
 ''For four years, the economy provided a good, stable foundation for small business owners to do business,'' said Mr. Phillips, author of the report with Holly Wade, a policy analyst. ''But as it started to take a negative turn over the last several months, they felt the effects of rising costs of doing business as reflected by these results.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Party buses are popular and a big revenue source for Sam's Limousine and Transportation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 David Rosenthal, top rear, and Adam Pierce of Rosenthal Plumbing in Santa Cruz, Calif., are rerouting trucks. Larry Zogby, above, of RDS has raised prices because of fuel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); FLORISTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (73%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (73%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (60%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (60%); WEB SITES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



783 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: The Laws Cops Can't Enforce

BYLINE: By GEORGE GASCON. 
George Gascon, a former assistant chief in the Los Angeles Police Department, is a lawyer and the chief of the police department in Mesa, Ariz.

DATELINE: Mesa, Ariz. 

 BODY:
 OUR next president faces a formidable task. He will be forced to deal with two difficult wars, an economic downturn, higher energy prices and a bankrupt federal immigration policy.
 To some, immigration pales in comparison with the wars and the economy. But for others, especially police departments in border states like mine, it is all-consuming. The first priority of the next president should be legislation that addresses the legitimate concerns of both the people who believe our borders are out of control and those who want equal protection for everyone living in this country.
 Immigration issues are tearing apart communities. Demagoguery and misinformation are shaping public opinion and in some cases public policy. In the absence of a clear federal policy on immigration, states and cities are enacting draconian and constitutionally questionable laws. 
 This patchwork of conflicting local immigration laws is creating an untenable situation for police officials who face demands to crack down on immigrants -- demands that contradict policing practices that have led to significant declines in crime.
 For police officials, refusing to carry out policies that may violate the Constitution can be career-threatening. Both sides in the immigration debate accuse police departments of misconduct in dealing with immigrants. In this politically charged environment, some chiefs are making decisions based on bad politics instead of sound policing. In many cases, police officers are making illegal arrests with the acquiescence and sometimes explicit approval of their superiors. 
 Here in Arizona, a wedge is being driven between the local police and some immigrant groups. Some law enforcement agencies are wasting limited resources in operations to appease the public's thirst for action against illegal immigration regardless of the legal or social consequences.
 America's 500,000 police officers are sworn to enforce the law. But we are increasingly unable to do so. Those who want to restrict immigration criticize us for not arresting immigrants for entering the country illegally. Yet others rightly wonder how we can do our job if some residents are afraid to report crimes or otherwise cooperate with the police for fear of deportation.
 Without a national immigration policy, a new culture of lawlessness will increasingly permeate our society. In cities, politicians will pressure police departments to reduce immigration by using racial profiling and harassment. At the same time, immigrants who fear that the police will help deport them will rely less on their local officers and instead give thugs control of their neighborhoods.
 Many top law enforcement officials were part of the community policing revolution of the 1980s and '90s. We have a deep concern for constitutional rights and social justice. We believe that effective policing requires residents, regardless of immigration status, to trust the police.
 We are also students of the mistakes of our predecessors. Past police practices helped lead to the civil unrest of the 1960s, which tore our nation apart along racial and political lines. We do not want to repeat those mistakes. 
 If we become a nation in which the local police are the default enforcers of a failing federal immigration policy, the years of trust that police departments have built up in immigrant communities will vanish. Some minority groups may once again view police officers as armed instruments of government oppression. 
 A wink and a nod will no longer suffice as an immigration policy. Effective border control is a critical step. But so is ensuring that otherwise law-abiding undocumented immigrants have the same protections as everyone else in a modern, free society. 
 Presidential candidates need to specify the measures on immigration they would present to Congress after Inauguration Day. No doubt, the advisers to John McCain and Barack Obama are counseling them to be vague. That's the wrong advice. 
 America's police officers deserve thoughtful federal leadership so that we can continue doing our best to provide our country with the security that defines a civilized society. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES VICTORE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); POLICE FORCES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); RACIAL PROFILING (77%); DEPORTATION (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); EQUAL PROTECTION (76%); MISCONDUCT (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); RIOTS (72%); APPROVALS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



784 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks Posts a Loss Because of Weak Sales and Store Closings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The coffee chain Starbucks said Wednesday that weak sales in the United States and costs related to its closing of 600 underperforming stores led it to post a loss for its fiscal third quarter. 
 The company also cut its guidance for the year and said it would open fewer stores in the United States and internationally in both 2008 and 2009.
 But Starbucks kept its profit guidance intact for 2009, easing investors' fears about the economy's effect on the year ahead.
 ''I don't think anyone's really focused on the quarter,'' said an Edward Jones analyst, Jack Russo. ''Everyone is thinking of next year.''
 Starbucks shares rose 59 cents, or 4 percent, to $15.26 in electronic after-hours trading. During regular trading they had fallen 2 percent.
 The company, based in Seattle, reported a loss of $6.7 million, or 1 cent a share, in contrast to a profit of $158.3 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Starbucks said it earned 16 cents a share once the costs for restructuring and closing stores were excluded.
 Analysts polled by Thomson Financial expected a profit of 18 cents a share on revenue of $2.61 billion.
 Starbucks said revenue rose 9 percent, to $2.57 billion, from $2.36 billion in the third quarter of 2007.
 Most of the increase was from sales at the company's international locations and at newer stores in the United States. Same-store sales, or sales at stores open for at least a year, fell in the mid-to-single digits in the United States.
 Sales jumped over all internationally, but growth slowed in Canada and traffic fell off in Britain. Analysts and investors had largely expected traffic to slide in Britain, where consumer confidence in the economy has taken a hit.
 Starbucks also cut its profit guidance for 2008 to the ''mid-70-cent'' range, excluding costs. Previously, the company had warned that its profit might fall below the 87 cents a share it earned a year ago.
 Analysts were expecting 81 cents a share for the year.
 Besides lowering its guidance, the chain also said it would open fewer United States and international locations in 2008. For 2009, Starbucks said it would open 165 new stores in the United States but would also close 225 locations. Internationally, the company said it would open about 900 new stores in 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (91%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); SAME STORE SALES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



785 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Accuses 3 Ratings Firms of Slighting Government Debt

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The attorney general of Connecticut accused the nation's three big ratings firms on Wednesday of systematically underrating debt issued by local and state governments.
 In lawsuits filed in state court in Hartford, the attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, accused the Moody's Corporation, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratingsof unfair trade practices that cost municipalities millions of dollars in higher interest rates and bond insurance fees. 
 While Mr. Blumenthal and other officials have been critical of the firms for some time, this is the first legal action filed by a public official against them since their practices came under public scrutiny last year after credit markets seized up.
 The cases are based on data that show municipal bonds default at significantly lower rates than corporate bonds rated the same or higher. 
 Mr. Blumenthal said the rating firms had identified the discrepancy in defaults starting in 1999 but had done little to change how they rate securities. The reason, he said, is that the rating firms earn lucrative fees from bond insurance companies like MBIA and Ambac, which sell insurance to municipalities with lower ratings so they can borrow money at better interest rates.
 All three rating firms said the cases were without merit and that they would fight them. 
 The cases could turn on the court's interpretation of the First Amendment, which ratings firms have long asserted protect their ratings or opinions from legal and regulatory supervision. 
 S.& P.'s parent company, the McGraw-Hill Companies, invoked the First Amendment in a statement, saying that Mr. Blumenthal's claims ''would result in an erosion of analytical independence and undermine investor confidence in the market by allowing ratings to be determined by governmental mandate or the threat of litigation.''
 Mr. Blumenthal said he was confident that the case would overcome the First Amendment defense. ''These ratings were known to be the result of a dual standard and were purposefully continued and were done for financial gain,'' he said in an interview. ''Our claim is that financial gain, rather than some free-expression purpose, was the reason and goal here.''
 Mr. Blumenthal is seeking fines, restitution for municipal bond issuers in Connecticut and legal fees. He said his investigation was continuing and he might bring charges against other players in the municipal finance business. 
 Congress held hearings on the issue this year after investors grew concerned about the financial viability of bond insurance companies, which guarantee about half the $2.6 trillion municipal bond market. 
 Of the three rating firms, Moody's has acknowledged the differences in the ratings of municipal and corporate debt. In June, the company proposed rating all municipal debt on the same scale that it uses to rate corporate bonds. 
 Fitch Ratings said on Wednesday that it planned to release the findings of a ''comprehensive review of its municipal financing ratings'' on Thursday. This year the firm said it was considering ''possible harmonization'' of its municipal and corporate ratings.
 But S.& P. has steadfastly maintained that it does not rate corporate and municipal debt on different scales and that any difference in default rates would converge over time. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In lawsuits, Richard Blumenthal, attorney general of Connecticut, says the firms systematically underrate local debt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN LEE MILLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (65%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MCGRAW-HILL COS INC (66%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); MHP (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



786 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: United Sues Pilots, Saying Job Action Canceled Hundreds of Flights

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
United Airlines sued its pilots' union on Wednesday, asking it to halt slowdowns that it said had led to the cancellation of hundreds of flights in the last 10 days.
 The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Chicago, seeks a preliminary injunction against the Air Line Pilots Association and four pilots -- Steven Tamkin, Robert Domaleski Jr., Xavier F. Fernandez and Anthony R. Freeman -- claiming that the union and the pilots had organized an effort to encourage pilots to call in sick. 
 The airline said the union was conducting a ''public campaign of intimidation'' meant to discourage pilots from filling in for the pilots who used their sick time, ''effectively engaging in a slowdown.'' 
 United said it was trying to avoid a repeat of a similar slowdown that occurred eight years ago, which led to what came to be known as the ''summer from hell'' for airlines.
 The action by pilots in 2000 cost United hundreds of millions of dollars, and contributed to a financial slide that eventually landed the airline in bankruptcy protection.
 United, the second-largest domestic airline behind American, said the campaign had been under way for a year but had accelerated in recent weeks. United said it had canceled 329 flights from July 19 to 27, disrupting plans for 36,000 travelers whose planes had no pilots to fly them.
 The cancellations cost the airline $8 million in lost revenue and $3.9 million in lost profit, it said in the lawsuit. 
 ''United simply cannot afford a repeat of the summer of 2000 and its impact on the company's customers and employees,'' United said. 
 United's cancellation record through May of this year was not much worse than that of the rest of the industry. United canceled 2.59 percent of its 2008 flights, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, compared with the industry average of 2.36 percent, while 73 percent of its flights arrived on time, versus the industry average of about 74 percent.
 The pilots' union said it had no comment.
 The airline said Mr. Freeman organized a group of pilots known as the ''2172'' because they were among the 2,172 pilots laid off by United in 2001 after the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, in which United lost two planes.
 United said it believed that Mr. Freeman had staged the campaign, via a private Web site, ''in order to force United to abandon its fleet and furlough plans as necessitated by the current economic climate.''
 United, which lost $2.7 billion in the second quarter, is on a drive to cut spending and jobs, including pilots' jobs, in the wake of record prices for jet fuel, which have nearly doubled since summer 2007. 
 United's contract with its pilots' union, reached while it was under Chapter 11 protection, expires in 2009.
 Union officials have said they want to reopen the pact before then, saying they are working under a ''draconian contract and work rules.''
 Under the Railway Labor Act, airline union members cannot strike until their contracts expire and an impasse has been declared. A cooling-off period must then take place before a walkout can be called. 
 As a result, workers often resort to slowdowns or refuse to work overtime, prompting lawsuits by the airlines.
 United, Delta and American have all sued their workers over the years to end slowdowns. United did not sue its pilots in 2000, however.
 Officials at United, which is a unit of UAL, said they tried to negotiate with the pilots' union, known as ALPA, before filing the lawsuit, but said the union broke off the negotiations this week.
 United said the rate of sick leave among some of its co-pilots is up 103 percent this summer, while pilots in general are picking up much less additional flying time than in previous years. In 2006, pilots were five times more likely to fly additional trips compared with this summer, United said.
 United said the highest number of pilots on sick leave during May was about 350. It said that the number of pilots who called in sick rose from 325 on June 5 to a high of 538 during the weekend of July 19, and that the figures had not dropped significantly since then. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); JET FUEL (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); SICK LEAVE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%) ILLINOIS, USA (89%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



787 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: A Dance of Environment and Economics in the Everglades

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
When Florida officials announced a plan last month to save the Everglades by buying United States Sugar and its 187,000 acres, they knew that the success of their plan could be defined by Alfonso Fanjul and his brother J. Pepe Fanjul. 
 The Fanjuls' family-run sugar company, Florida Crystals, owns what the state wants: about 35,000 acres needed to recreate the River of Grass's historic water flow from Lake Okeechobee south to the Everglades. 
 State officials have said they hope to trade some of United States Sugar's assets for the Fanjuls' property, and in their first interview since the deal was announced, the Fanjuls said they were ''on board'' -- but with a few caveats. 
 Their mill and biomass power plant in Okeelanta, which is in the path of the flow way in some draft plans, cannot be moved, they said. And wouldn't it be best, they hinted, to let Florida Crystals use much of the state's new land for sugar, to preserve jobs and produce fuel for their clean-energy projects? 
 ''We really want to be as green as we possibly can be,'' said Alfonso Fanjul, the company's chief executive. But, J. Pepe Fanjul added, ''You have to have a balance between the environment and economic development. Something has to be done for the humans, too.''
 Some advocates for the Everglades question the Fanjuls' motives, in part because of their well-publicized donations to both political parties and their efforts to protect a federal price-support program for sugar.
 But other environmentalists said the family had often been unfairly singled out. They point out that United States Sugar, not Florida Crystals, has historically been the state's largest sugar producer and the worst steward of the land, according to lawsuits filed against the industry. 
 Since the 1990s, Florida Crystals has also invested heavily in cleaner farming methods and alternative energy. The result is a steady decline in pollutants that Florida Crystals and other local farmers dump in waterways, according to state figures, though phosphorous levels are still above the 10 parts per billion that the Everglades' fragile ecosystem requires.
 The Fanjuls' company also now runs North America's largest biomass power plant, producing up to 140 megawatts of electricity. And last year, the University of Florida chose Florida Crystals for a $20 million pilot project to turn cellulose into liquid ethanol. 
 Ben Legendre, director of the Sugar Institute at Louisiana State University, said, ''Florida Crystals is a leader in the industry with new technology.'' 
 David Guest, a lawyer for Earthjustice who has tangled frequently with the sugar industry in court, agreed. ''The environmental community tends to see sugar as one unitary thing, and it isn't really,'' Mr. Guest said. 
 The Fanjuls said their efforts reflected demand for greener products.
 ''I don't think we were the only ones who changed,'' said J. Pepe Fanjul, the company's president. ''People's consciousness of the environment in every country in the world, let alone the United States, has changed and developed. We're all changing as time goes by.''
 Since the United States Sugar deal was announced June 24 with a November deadline for closing, the Fanjuls have expanded efforts to show that their environmental and economic efforts are aligned.
 Company executives have met at least twice with state officials since June. A few weeks ago, the Fanjuls also hired John Wark, a public relations consultant whose clients have included the Everglades Foundation and the Environmental Defense Fund. At Mr. Wark's suggestion, reporters from several news organizations have recently been invited to visit the company's facilities at Okeelanta.
 The complex -- with a refinery next door to the biomass power plant -- still feels mostly sugar-centric. Mountains of raw sugar the size of blizzard snowbanks are churned through the refinery year-round with the help of about 800 unionized workers. 
 The power plant's primary job is to keep the refinery running. This is a common scenario for sugar mills, with the difference being that Florida Crystals added new technology in 1995, which increases steam pressure to produce additional energy. It took nearly three years to get the system running. 
 ''U.S. Sugar could have done the same thing when they built their new mill,'' said Gaston Cantens, a vice president for communications at Florida Crystals, standing over the turbines. ''They didn't.''
 Yet there are also signs here that Florida Crystals remains a company in transition, unsure of how green to go. At the distribution center, organic sugar is prominently displayed though Mr. Cantens acknowledged that it was produced on only 5,000 of the company's 155,000 acres in Palm Beach County. (''We're expanding it,'' he said.) 
 Some environmentalists are skeptical. ''The company has always operated on the principle that its bottom line is most important,'' said Alan Farago, executive director of the Everglades Defense Council. 
 Indeed, Alfonso Fanjul cited the business-minded book ''Green to Gold,'' by Daniel C. Esty and Andrew S. Winston, as an inspiration, not Marjory Stoneman Douglas's ''The Everglades: Rivers of Grass.'' And in a day's worth of tours and briefings, it became clear that the Fanjuls were at least as interested in getting additional land for profits and jobs as for clean energy. 
 In emphasizing the economy, they have allies. The most vocal critics of the state's plan have been United States Sugar workers like K. S. Jones, one of about 1,900 employees who will be unemployed if the state puts United States Sugar out of business in six years, as the current plan proposes.
 Last week, in a meeting at United States Sugar's headquarters in Clewiston, Mr. Jones spoke first. He told state officials that if a similar agro-economy does not replace United States Sugar, the area will be filled with ghost towns. ''Any dollar lost hurts a small, rural county,'' he said.
 One fresh idea, discussed in Clewiston and supported by Florida Crystals, is an ''inland intermodal center'' that would hold containers for the area's ports. It could add 32,000 jobs by 2015, according to a state-sponsored study. 
 But for now, one question looms: How much land should go to the Everglades? Thomas Van Lent, a senior scientist at the Everglades Foundation, has estimated that about 130,000 acres would be needed to supply the Everglades and water treatment areas. If that is accurate, and if all of the unused acquisition went to the Fanjuls in a trade or sale, Florida Crystals could add 57,000 acres to the 155,000 it already owns in Florida. 
 Mindful of the continuing negotiations, the South Florida Water Management District has repeatedly declined to offer figures of its own. State officials have also not said whether they would seek to shut down Okeelanta in a land swap. 
 ''We cannot respond to conjecture or assumptions at this point about a potential acquisition still under negotiation,'' Carole Wehle, the district's executive director, said in an e-mail message. 
 Mr. Van Lent said the state was probably still studying the financial picture.
 ''This opportunity came out of the blue,'' he said, ''and I don't think anyone has gone through and crunched the numbers on what the lowest cost is, whether it's trading land with the Fanjuls or building on the current U.S. Sugar footprint.'' 
 On Tuesday, a federal judge ruled that Florida and the federal Environmental Protection Agency had failed to enforce the Clean Water Act by extending Everglades clean-up deadlines to 2016 from 2006 through a law the sugar industry had lobbied for. 
 But whenever the state figures out what it wants, the Fanjuls said they would be ready to dig into the details and try to help. 
 ''We want to be an active participant playing a role in how it should be done,'' said Alfonso Fanjul.
 ''Our biggest concern,'' he added, ''is that they do things properly, in an orderly way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The biomass power plant that is part of the Florida Crystals sugar refinery could play a pivotal role in a plan to revive water flow in the Everglades.
Florida Crystals, though trying to be greener, is a refinery at heart. ''Scrap'' sugar awaits refining.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jose F. Gonzalez at the power plant in Okeelanta, where he is director. Biomass is piled in the background.
J. Pepe Fanjul Jr., left
his father, J. Pepe Fanjul Sr.
 and Alfonso Fanjul are in talks with Florida officials over a plan to trade or sell land to help restore the Everglades.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) MAP Map details area of Okeelanta, Florida. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMASS (89%); SUGAR MFG (89%); RIVERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (88%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); BIOFUELS (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SUGAR FARMING (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); ETHANOL (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); LAKES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); ALCOHOLS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); LAWYERS (63%); LITIGATION (62%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



788 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: A Hidden Toll on Employment: Cut to Part Time

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
The number of Americans who have seen their full-time jobs chopped to part time because of weak business has swelled to more than 3.7 million -- the largest figure since the government began tracking such data more than half a century ago. 
 The loss of pay has become a primary source of pain for millions of American families, reinforcing the downturn gripping the economy. Paychecks are shrinking just as home prices plunge and gas prices soar, furthering the austerity across the nation.
 ''I either stop eating, or stop using anything I can,'' said Marvin L. Zinn, a clerk at a Walgreens drugstore in St. Joseph, Mich., who has seen his take-home pay drop to about $550 every two weeks from about $650, as his weekly hours have dropped to 37.5 from 44 in recent months.
 Mr. Zinn has run up nearly $2,000 in credit card debt to buy food. He has put off dental work. He no longer attends church, he said, ''because I can't afford to drive.'' 
 On the surface, the job market is weak but hardly desperate. Layoffs remain less frequent than in many economic downturns, and the unemployment rate is a relatively modest 5.5 percent. But that figure masks the strains of those who are losing hours or working part time because they cannot find full-time work -- a stealth force that is eroding American spending power.
 All told, people the government classifies as working part time involuntarily -- predominantly those who have lost hours or cannot find full-time work -- swelled to 5.3 million last month, a jump of greater than 1 million over the last year. 
 These workers now amount to 3.7 percent of all those employed, up from 3 percent a year ago, and the highest level since 1995.
 ''This increase is startling,'' said Steve Hipple, an economist at the Labor Department.
 The loss of hours has been affecting men in particular -- and Hispanic men more so. Among those who were forced into part-time work from the spring of 2007 to the spring of 2008, 73 percent were men and 35 percent were Hispanic. 
 Some 28 percent of the jobs affected were in construction, 14 percent in retail and 13 percent in professional and business services, according an analysis by Mr. Hipple.
 ''The unemployment rate is giving you a misleading impression of some of the adjustments that are taking place,'' said John E. Silvia, chief economist of Wachovia in Charlotte. ''Hours cut is a big deal. People still have a job, but they are losing income.''
 Many experts see the swift cutback in hours as a precursor of a more painful chapter to come: broader layoffs. Some struggling companies are holding on to workers and cutting shifts while hoping to ride out hard times. If business does not improve, more extreme measures could follow.
 ''The change in working hours is the canary in the coal mine,'' said Susan J. Lambert of the University of Chicago, a professor of social service administration and an expert in low-wage employment. ''First you see hours get short, and eventually more people will get laid off.'' 
 For the last decade, Ron Temple has loaded and unloaded bags for United Airlines in Denver, earning more than $20 an hour, plus generous health and flight benefits. On July 6, as management grappled with the rising cost of fuel, Mr. Temple and 150 other people in Denver were offered an unpalatable set of options: they could transfer to another city, go on furlough without pay and hope to be rehired, or stay on at reduced hours.
 Mr. Temple and his wife say they cannot envision living outside Colorado, and they probably could not sell their house. Similar homes are now selling for about $180,000, while they owe the bank $203,000.
 So Mr. Temple took the third option. He reluctantly traded in his old shift -- 3 p.m. to midnight -- for a shorter stint from 5:30 p.m. to 10 p.m. He gave up benefits like paid lunches and overtime. His take-home pay shrunk to $570 every two weeks from about $1,350, he said. 
 Mr. Temple's wife, Ali, works as an aide at a cancer clinic, bringing home nearly $1,000 every two weeks, he said. But collectively, they earn less than half of what they did. 
 Suddenly, they are having trouble making their $1,753 monthly mortgage payment, he said. They are relying on credit cards to pay the bills, running up balances of $2,700 so far. Gone are their dinners at the Outback Steakhouse. Mr. Temple recently bought cheap, generic groceries from a church that sells them to people in need.
 ''That's the first time in my life I've had to do that,'' he said. ''We are cutting back in every way.''
 Mr. Temple has been searching for another job, applying for a cashier's position at Safeway and a clerk's job at Home Depot, among others. But the market is lean.
 ''I've applied more than 20 times, and I haven't had a single call back,'' he said. 
 His search is constrained by the high price of gas. ''I can't afford to go drive my truck around and look for a job,'' he said.
 So Mr. Temple has done his search online -- until he fell behind on the bills, and the local telephone company cut off Internet service. On a recent day, he bicycled to a Starbucks coffee shop with his laptop for the free connection.
 The growing ranks of involuntary part-timers reflect the sophisticated fashion through which many American employers have come to manage their payrolls, say experts. 
 In decades past, when business soured, companies tended to resort to mass layoffs, hiring people back when better times returned. But as high technology came to permeate American business, companies have grown reluctant to shed workers. Even the lowest-wage positions in retail, fast food, banking or manufacturing require computer skills and a grasp of a company's systems. Several months of training may be needed to get a new employee up to speed.
 ''Companies today would rather not go through the process of dumping someone and hiring them back,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. ''Firms are going to short shifts rather than just laying people off.''
 More part-time and fewer full-time workers also allows companies to save on health care costs. Only 16 percent of retail workers receive health insurance through their employer, while more than half of full-time workers are covered, according to an analysis by Ms. Lambert, the University of Chicago employment expert.
 The trend toward cutting hours in a downturn lessens the pain for workers in one regard: it moderates layoffs. Many companies now strive to keep payrolls large enough to allow them to easily adjust to swings in demand, adding working hours without having to hire when business grows. 
 But that also sows vulnerability, heightening the possibility that hours are cut when the economy slows and demand for goods and services dries up.
 ''There's a lot of people at risk in the economy when they keep the headcount high and they only have so many hours to distribute,'' Ms. Lambert said. ''It really is a trade-off for society.''
 Goodyear Tire has in recent months idled work for a few days at a time at many of it factories, as the company adjusts to weakening demand. At one plant in Gadsden, Ala., workers expect they will soon lose a week's wages to another slowdown -- something Goodyear would neither confirm nor deny.
 ''People are scared,'' said Dennis Battles, president of the local branch of the United Steelworkers union, which represents about 1,350 workers there. ''The cost of gas, the cost of food and everything else is extremely high. It takes every penny you make. And once it starts, when's it going to quit? What's going to happen next month?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ali and Ron Temple lost more than half their monthly income when Mr. Temple's full-time job was scaled back.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Working Part Time, but Not by Choice: The number of people working part time has risen as the economy has slowed down.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details line graph for Total working part time for any economic reason. (pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MEN (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



789 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: In Alaska, a New Generation of Republicans Stands in the Wings

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE 

 BODY:
For the first time in four decades, politics in Alaska is a brand-new game for both Republicans and Democrats because of the indictment of Senator Ted Stevens, the state's longtime Republican patriarch.
 Gov. Sarah Palin was a political upstart and Mr. Stevens was still the powerful, irascible senior senator from Alaska, delivering billions of federal dollars to his home state, when federal agents raided the offices of six state legislators two years ago.
 One of them was Ben Stevens, the senator's son and at the time the president of the State Senate. The expansive corruption investigation, and the Stevens family connection, raised two staggering possibilities: that the elder Mr. Stevens could be implicated, and that the economic and political stability he had provided since he literally helped put the state on the map 49 years ago could crumble. 
 Change came quickly. Several months after the raids, in the fall of 2006, Ms. Palin, a suburban mayor, was elected governor as she challenged her own party leaders and campaigned on a promise of government reform. In that same election, Mr. Stevens lost much of his influence as Democrats in Washington took control of the Senate. 
 Now, after three Republican state lawmakers have been convicted of corruption, more face trial and Mr. Stevens has been indicted as he seeks re-election, it is suddenly Ms. Palin and a new generation of fellow Republicans to whom the party could be clinging to salvage control of a state they have long dominated.
 ''These guys have done so much but at some point you have to have a new group of people come in,'' said McHugh Pierre, a spokesman for the party who is on leave from an appointed position in Ms. Palin's administration. ''That why Democrats are spending so much money here. But it's not that the conservative values or the views of Alaskans are changing, it's that there's this shift in the elected body.''
 Democrats, often only bit players in Alaska, see an opportunity to take a Senate seat -- and maybe the state's only House seat -- for the first time in decades.
 ''This has just been a Republican world up here,'' said Keith W. Bell, an immigration lawyer who attended a fund-raiser for one of Mr. Stevens's Democratic rivals, Mayor Mark Begich of Anchorage, on Wednesday. ''They've had it their way with no counterbalances, so there was nothing to stop the corruption. Now they've been caught, and I'm so glad.''
 For all the attention on newfound Democratic promise, though, the Republican Party has not surrendered as Ms. Palin and her allies move closer to center stage -- potentially completing the generational party realignment that would allow the Republicans to maintain their dominance even in these turbulent times. 
 Senator Stevens, 84, is still considered the favorite to win the Republican primary on Aug. 26, but there is no shortage of speculation over what might happen among Republicans after that, particularly since Mr. Begich, who is expected to win his party's primary, was ahead of Mr. Stevens in the polls even before the senator was indicted on Tuesday. 
 One option for the Republicans being discussed here Wednesday had Mr. Stevens withdrawing from the race and the state Republican Party's executive committee appointing a replacement candidate. Ms. Palin would probably be at the top of that list.
 Another possibility: Mr. Stevens could resign, which would allow the governor to appoint a replacement to fill his seat. Ms. Palin could conceivably also resign and have her successor, Lt. Gov. Sean Parnell, also a Republican, name her to the seat.
 But there are inevitable wrinkles. Ms. Palin has said she wants to remain governor. And Mr. Parnell is among the Republicans that the party is counting on to succeed the old guard, which includes Mr. Stevens and the state's longtime Republican congressman, Representative Don Young. Mr. Parnell is in a tight primary battle against Mr. Young, 75, who has spent 35 years in the House (just five years shy of Mr. Stevens's tenure in the Senate) and who is also under investigation for corruption.
 ''There's certainly a demographic shift we're taking part in right now,'' Mr. Pierre said. He emphasized that the Republican Party did not take positions in primaries but said that it supported Mr. Stevens's efforts to defend himself against the charges.
 On Tuesday, a federal grand jury charged Mr. Stevens with concealing more than $250,000 in home renovations, furnishings and other gifts from a former oil industry executive, William J. Allen, and his company, VECO.
 While Democrats around the country have seized on the indictment to paint Republicans as vulnerable in Alaska, virtually no one in Alaska, Republican or Democrat, wants to alienate Mr. Stevens's supporters, who frequently call talk radio shows to praise him. 
 A spokesman for Mr. Stevens's campaign, Aaron Saunders, said the senator's office had handed out more lawn signs in the last two days than it had in all the previous weeks and that the senator would be campaigning throughout the state during the August recess. Mr. Saunders said there had been no talk of dropping out of the race.
 ''He's in, full steam ahead,'' he said. ''Unequivocally.''
 Still, reflecting the new frontier that Alaska politics has become, Mr. Saunders spoke just after listening to Vic Vickers, a businessman, hold a news conference in front of Mr. Stevens's campaign headquarters saying the senator should resign. Mr. Vickers, who moved to the state in January, said he was prepared to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars of his own money to challenge Mr. Stevens in the Republican primary. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska is favored to win the Republican primary despite an indictment accusing him of concealing gifts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEN (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); MAYORS (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LAWYERS (64%); SUBURBS (53%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: TED STEVENS (92%); SARAH PALIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



790 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Obama Camp Sees Potential in G.O.P. Discontent

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Chuck Lasker, a political blogger and Internet consultant in Indiana, hosted a gathering last week of 20 people he calls ''whispering Republicans'' -- party members like him who support Senator Barack Obama, a Democrat, for president. Over iced tea and brownies, the renegades took turns explaining why they liked Mr. Obama and recalling the strange stares from other Republicans.
 ''It was sort of like a group therapy session,'' said Mr. Lasker, who said he had never voted for a Democrat, for any office, until the Indiana primary in May. ''We all wanted to make sure we weren't a little crazy.''
 Republican anger over the Iraq war and the economy has left some advisers to Mr. Obama hopeful that they can capture pockets of Republican votes on Election Day in states like Alaska, Indiana, Montana, North Dakota and Virginia. Advisers also said they had recently begun emphasizing Mr. Obama's ties to Republicans as a way to make undecided independent voters more comfortable with him. 
 In recent weeks, Obama aides have met with Republican leaders in crucial states to strategize about wooing undecided voters. The campaign is considering inviting Republicans to speak at the Democratic convention. Obama aides pointed to a defense by Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, a critic of the war, after Senator John McCain's campaign ran an advertisement attacking Mr. Obama. And they have tapped sympathetic Republican brand names like Susan Eisenhower, the granddaughter of the former president, to reach out to party members.
 Obama advisers say support from Republican voters could be critical if Mr. McCain makes gains in Michigan and Pennsylvania, two states recent Democratic presidential nominees have carried but where Mr. Obama is struggling among working-class white voters.
 Based on recent polls, as well as interviews with Obama advisers, Republican voters are not moving to Mr. Obama at a greater pace than they moved to Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee in 2004. In the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted this month, 9 percent of Republicans said they would vote for Mr. Obama if the election were held today; at the same point in 2004, 6 percent said they would have supported Mr. Kerry, a statistically insignificant difference.
 But analysts also note that sizable numbers of voters who typically support Republicans -- or were solidly behind President Bush at this point in 2000 and 2004 -- remain undecided about Mr. McCain.
 ''There aren't a lot of people on the Republican side who are saying yes to Obama -- though there are more of them,'' said Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center. ''But uncertainty about McCain raises the possibility of Republican defections down the road.'' 
 The Obama campaign is not overstating its expectations about Republican support. Aides are concentrating organizing and polling on independents and Democrats, and are working to leverage two potential advantages this year: increased Democratic voter registration and black voters energized by the prospect of the first African-American nominee.
 Yet advisers say that Mr. Obama's emphatic message that he is not a partisan politician -- combined with the unpopularity of President Bush and some qualms about Mr. McCain's positions, temperament and age -- may attract disaffected Republicans.
 ''Obama seems like a leader who can deal with challenges that are highly complex, nuanced and interconnected,'' Ms. Eisenhower said, ''and he has the language and communication skills and temperament to engage a set of world leaders who are his generation.''
 Brian Rogers, a McCain spokesman, said the Obama campaign's outreach to Republicans was nothing more than bluster. ''The real battleground is middle-of-the-road swing voters, and John McCain has enormous appeal for them based on his history as a maverick, his independence and his experience,'' Mr. Rogers said.
 Mr. Obama is hardly a perfect candidate for Republicans. Some say they loathe his support for abortion rights but have decided, after the failed 35-year campaign to overturn Roe v. Wade, that they could accept a Democratic president who pledges to work to decrease abortions, as Mr. Obama has. 
 His multilateral approach to foreign policy disturbs some Republican supporters, who worry that he will indulge European interests, cozy up to the United Nations and engage Iran and North Korea. And some Democrats may end up breaking with Mr. Obama over Israel, given his concern with Palestinian issues (though he strongly supports Israel).
 And the idea of a Barack Obama-Nancy Pelosi-Harry Reid triumvirate, should Democrats still control Congress after the election, is anathema to many Republicans, as well as to independents who believe in the virtue of two-party government. No Republican member of Congress has endorsed Mr. Obama.
 Yet concerns about Mr. Obama, several Republicans said, are less immediate and visceral than the anger at the Bush administration over the invasion and occupation of Iraq, and to a lesser degree over foreign policy decisions like support for Pakistan despite its failings at capturing terrorists.
 ''Some Republicans are so distressed with the state of their party that they might be for Obama if they don't see him as a threat to their interests,'' said David A. Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union. ''Going after Republicans and getting some will only make him more acceptable to people who vote Republican.''
 Mike Murphy, a Republican media consultant who advised Mr. McCain in his presidential bid in 2000, said he believed that Mr. Obama would probably win more Republican votes this fall than Mr. Kerry did in 2004. But he said that most Republicans would ultimately stand behind Mr. McCain and that the Obama campaign's pitch, instead, could end up proving far more helpful with white independent swing voters.
 ''The Obama campaign is dripping with money, so they can afford to fool around with Republicans, especially since the McCain campaign is challenged,'' Mr. Murphy said, referring to Republican concern that the McCain bid has been unfocused at times. ''Whether Obama pulls in a big number of swing voters this fall depends on whether McCain comes to life.''
 An invigorated McCain campaign, though, is not what some Republicans want. Even some who once supported President Bush say that they have tired of the party's hawkishness, unstinting support for the war and attacks on privacy, and that they believe Mr. Obama offers fresher thinking than Mr. McCain or others in both parties.
 ''I really worry McCain would just continue most of these wrongheaded policies,'' said Rita E. Hauser, a prominent philanthropist and former Bush fund-raiser who supports Mr. Obama. ''I don't want to become a Democrat; I just want a new direction and then a chance for the Republican Party to get back to its roots.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama campaigning Wednesday in Rolla, Mo. Advisers say anger over the Iraq war and the economy could help them draw some Republicans to the polls for Mr. Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



791 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Gov. Paterson's Budget Emergency

 BODY:
Across the country, states are slashing their budgets as tax revenues dwindle. New York, with its heavy dependence on Wall Street, is far from immune to the nation's economic slide, as Gov. David Paterson this week made abundantly clear. 
 The governor warned this week that New York's financial situation has eroded rapidly, largely because of a ''mammoth collapse'' in revenues from the financial sector. He is predicting a state deficit of $6.4 billion this fiscal year alone. He is doing the right thing by starting now to cut his share of the $121 billion state budget and by calling the Legislature back into special session on Aug. 19. Cutting the budget is never easy, especially in an election year. Already the special interests, the ones that fund campaigns, are lined up to defend their shares.
 Since Governor Paterson has not yet given a clear road map of where he wants to cut spending and raise revenues, here are our suggestions:
 New York's budget has traditionally hidden hundreds of millions of dollars in slush funds, money that legislators and the governor hand out to their communities. These secret pools are the place to start.
 Sharing the pain, as the governor promises, should not mean forcing the poor to make most of the sacrifices. Cuts in funds for schools and health care should only take away the extras that special interests have added, not crucial services. 
 Governor Paterson said that he is considering raising money through private-public partnerships involving the leasing of state assets. He should tread carefully there. Unloading public assets can too easily be the sort of one-time budget gimmick that does little long-term good. 
 New taxes have to be on the table, if only as a last resort, but any changes in the tax code must be fair. Governor Paterson has already endorsed a property-tax cap that helps the suburbs and upstate but threatens cities. A temporary tax surcharge on wealthy New Yorkers makes sense, but it should not drive too much revenue away or allow the Legislature to keep wasting funds.
 Governor Paterson has promised to consult with legislators and ''those affected'' before his final proposals on where to cut funds. It is a very collegial plan, but if the new governor really wants to put the state's fiscal house in order, he is going to have to get a lot tougher with his old friends in Albany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FUNDRAISING (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



792 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2450 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 KARADZIC, NOW AT THE HAGUE, 
 Will Have First Day at World Court
 Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb leader who was transferred Wednesday from Serbia to a jail near The Hague, will appear in court for the first time to answer charges of genocide and war crimes. The hearing will begin legal proceedings against him, as well as offer a first glimpse of the man who evaded capture for 13 years. PAGE A8 
 THE BROTHERS CASTRO
 The dynamic of President Raul Castro, above, and his older brother Fidel -- who portray themselves as joined at the hip even as they veer apart in important ways -- serves both men's interests: Raul can continue to derive his legitimacy from the family name, and Fidel, who left the country in such economic disarray that it seems held together by its black market, saves face. PAGE A10 
 MAN PUNISHED FOR QUAKE PHOTOS
 A school employee in China's Sichuan Province was ordered to a labor camp for a year for taking photographs of schools that collapsed in the powerful May 12 earthquake and posting them on the Internet, a human rights group reported. Family members informed the group that the worker had posted the photographs online; that has not been independently verified. PAGE A10 
 IRAN TO CONTINUE NUCLEAR PROGRAM
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, said the country would ''continue with its path'' of nuclear development, which includes the enrichment of uranium. The comments suggested Iran might take a hard line on the demands of the United States, Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany that it stop enriching uranium by this weekend. PAGE A12 
 FREE TO SMOKE IN BERLIN BARS
 It is safe once more to take a puff or a drag at Berlin's corner bars, legally speaking if not in health terms. The Federal Constitutional Court announced that it had found regional smoking bans in the German states of Berlin and Baden-Wurttemberg to be unconstitutional. The court ruled that by allowing large establishments to maintain separate smoking areas, the bans discriminated against or corner bars. PAGE A13 
 TEMPERATURE TO RISE AT U.N.
 The United Nations has long been accused by its detractors of generating hot air. Starting in August, a glance at the thermostat in the Secretariat building will provide confirmation. To set an example in the effort to curb energy use that contributes to global warming, the secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, has approved a one-month pilot project to raise the thermostat throughout much of the landmark building to 77 degrees from 72 degrees. PAGE A6 
 Karadzic Web Site Was a Hoax A8 
 NATIONAL
 HIRING IN BUSH EXECUTIVE BRANCH IS CALLED EXTENSIVELY POLITICIZED
 According to a little-noticed passage of an internal Justice Department report released Monday about politicization of the department's hiring practices, the White House's political affairs office in 2005 sent an e-mail message to executive branch agencies directing them to find jobs for 108 people who had ''loyally served the president.'' The report provided a window into how the Bush administration sought to install politically like-minded officials in positions of government responsibility and how those efforts sometimes crossed customary or legal limits. PAGE A17 
 DETAINEE DEFENSE CLAIMS COERCION
 A secret government document submitted at the trial of the first detainee to face a war crimes trial confirms the detainee's account of having been sexually humiliated while interrogated by a female government agent, defense lawyers said at the tribunal at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The defense lawyers described the document as an account by the unidentified agent and said that it bolstered their claim that their client, Salim Hamdan, was subjected to a series of measures at Guantanamo that amounted to coercion. PAGE A19 
 TWO CONFESSIONS AND ONE MURDER
 An inmate on death row in Alabama, Thomas Arthur, 66, is scheduled to be executed by lethal injection at 6 p.m. Thursday, for the murder of his lover's husband in 1982. But just this week, another Alabama inmate stepped forward with a handwritten affidavit claiming that he, and not Mr. Arthur, was responsible for the murder. PAGE A19 
 OBAMA COURTS SOME REPUBLICANS
 In recent weeks, Obama aides in key states have met with local Republican leaders to strategize about wooing undecided voters. Some advisers to Barack Obama are hopeful they can persuade pockets of disaffected Republicans to vote for him. In Indiana, 20 such Republicans who support Mr. Obama met, as the host of the gathering put it, to make sure they weren't ''crazy.'' Above, Mr. Obama woos at least one Republican, Senator Chuck Hagel, of Nebraska. PAGE A15 
 FOOD INDUSTRY SET TO TESTIFY
 As food industry leaders tally the financial losses of the continuing salmonella outbreak, the largest foodborne outbreak in the last decade, produce businesses now show signs of embracing broader regulations tracking produce. Industry leaders set to appear before members of Congress say they will testify about what they view as mistakes in the federal response to the outbreak, as well as fundamental failures in the nation's food safety system. PAGE A17 
 Drop in Illegal Immigrants A14 
 Caveats in Florida Sugar Deal A14 
 Three Children Wounded in Dallas A18 
 METRO 
 ACROSS NEW YORK CITY,
 Double Dutch Goes Varsity
 As part of an effort to increase the number of students, particularly girls, participating in competitive athletics, the city will create coed double Dutch teams at 10 high schools, many in predominantly black neighborhoods like Bushwick, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Harlem where the ropes have long swung on asphalt playgrounds. PAGE B3 
 BUDGET CASTS SHADOW ON STATE
 Budget experts say New York State's fiscal problems are not as severe as the $11.5 billion shortfall in 2003 -- yet. But they warn that if Albany does not move quickly to address its problems, the state could face the same sort of dire spending cuts and tax increases it confronted five years ago. This week, Danny Hakim writes in a news analysis, Gov. David A. Paterson seemed to embrace that message. PAGE B1 
 New Bus Tours Staten Island B2 BUSINESS
 CHINA'S SHIFT ON FOOD
 Was Key to Trade Impasse
 The spectacular collapse of negotiations gave way to resignation that a shift in the global economic hierarchy had darkened the prospect of any new accord to further open markets. At issue was whether China and other countries can impose tariffs on some foodstuffs, particularly on soybeans, of which the United States is a major exporter. PAGE C1 
 AN ILL-TIMED HOTEL BOOM
 A record number of hotels are opening this year, and, with high gas prices and a slumping economy putting a damper on travel, the timing could not be worse. Hotel occupancy rates are falling across much of the United States. Until recently, the industry was in the midst of a major boom. PAGE C1 
 F.D.A. ORDERS DRUG-LABEL CHANGES
 The Food and Drug Administration ordered Amgen to change the labels for its anemia drugs in a way that could further restrict their use in treating patients with cancer. The move represents the first time the agency has invoked authority under a 2007 law that empowered it to order changes in a drug's prescribing information. PAGE C1 
 UNITED SUES PILOTS OVER SICK DAYS
 United Airlines sued its pilots' union, asking it to halt slowdowns that it said had led to the cancellation of hundreds of flights in the last 10 days. The lawsuit seeks a preliminary injunction against the Air Line Pilots Association and four pilots, claiming the union and the pilots organized an effort to encourage pilots to call in sick. PAGE C3 
 Volatile Session Ends on Up Note C11 
 ARTS
 THAT NEW-TIME ROCK 'N' BOWL
 It's hard to come up with a new angle for a rock club in New York. That's why Peter Shapiro is excited about Brooklyn Bowl, his combination 600-capacity music club and 16-lane bowling alley with a food menu created by Blue Ribbon. ''To sit at a show, cock your head back, watch a band and then leave, it's been done,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''But to come see a show, do some bowling, eat some French bread pizza from Blue Ribbon -- that hasn't been done.'' PAGE B1 
 ORCHESTRAS PLAY ON DESPITE DOLLAR
 Despite the news that the Philadelphia Orchestra canceled an international tour, citing a lack of corporate support and the weak dollar, other major American orchestras say they plan to forge ahead. The Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Cleveland Orchestra, the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra, the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic will go forward with treks through Asia and Europe. PAGE B1 
 Janet Maslin: Andrew Davidson's 'The Gargoyle' B1 
 Styles
 DEATHS IN TRIATHLONS 
 Draw Attention to Swim Portion
 At least eight triathlon deaths have been recorded this year, and they all share a puzzling resemblance: they happened during the swim portion of the event. No one knows why swimming deaths are more common during triathlons, but researchers have some intriguing theories. Dr. Pamela Douglas, a Duke University cardiologist who has studied triathletes, suggests abnormal heart rhythms. PAGE E1
 LEARNING TO DRESS ALL OVER AGAIN
 Why should windbreakers submit to the dominant paradigm of human body shapes? Do pants actually need to conform to traditional stereotypes of body covering? Such are the questions posed by Oak's new industrial-style boutique. Design spirits too creative for conventional tailoring, they have discarded everything domesticated and inessential -- like function and affordability, writes Cintra Wilson. PAGE E4
 LAG IN NEW SUNSCREEN LABELS
 Last year the Food and Drug Administration promised consumers more informative labels. Then it kicked the ball into the court of sunscreen manufacturers by opening the new rules to public commentary. The delay is galling to consumer advocates, who blame sunscreen manufacturers for filibustering, and the F.D.A. for inertia. All the while, sunbathers, such as those at Montrose Dog Beach, above, on Chicago's north side, continue soaking in rays. PAGE E3
 A Decade on Run From Stalker E1
 Sneakers Trickle Into High Fashion E7 
 HOME
 IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, CONTACT MRS. HARRISON
 There is in Kathy Harrison's household a palpable sense of calm, achieved not with yoga and meditation but with stockpiled cans of powdered milk; several hundred pounds of oats, flour and rice; water purification tablets; a solar oven; and packs of hermetically sealed seeds. She believes in preparedness, and with ''Just in Case: How to Be Self-Sufficient When the Unexpected Happens,'' she is spreading the word. PAGE D1 
 ALL THEIR WORLD'S A STAGING
 With the real estate market slowing down, an increasing number of brokers and agents are recommending that their clients borrow a trick from professional set designers: stage their home. That means, among other things, that color schemes should be neutral. ''Decorating a home is personalizing it,'' one real estate broker explained. ''Staging a home is depersonalizing it.'' PAGE D5 
 Where Foliage Eclipses Flowers D6 
 OBITUARIES
 ANNE L. ARMSTRONG, 80
 An adviser to Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford and the first woman to serve as the United States ambassador to Britain, she became highly visible as one of the few White House officials willing and able to face hostile audiences as the Watergate scandal gathered force. PAGE C13 
 CLAY T. WHITEHEAD, 69
 An official in the Nixon administration, he laid the groundwork for Open Skies, the policy that led to the creation of the satellite system that brought cable television and lower-cost long-distance telephone service into American homes. PAGE C12 
 SPORTS
 TOUR'S CYCLISTS TO PLAY
 Canaries in the Coal Mine
 The greatest cyclists in the world will test Beijing's air for their fellow athletes when in two weeks they take a 161.6-mile toodle around the city. If they fall off their bikes gasping for air, it will be a clue to the International Olympic Committee that it miscalculated China's pollution problem. George Vecsey, Sports of the Times. PAGE C15 
 YANKEES ACQUIRE IVaN RODRIGUEZ
 In a move that was conceived and completed in less than six hours, the Yankees acquired Ivan Rodriguez from the Detroit Tigers, making Rodriguez the regular catcher for the Yankees five years after he led the Florida Marlins to a title and two years after he lifted Detroit to a pennant. PAGE C17 
 HOME
 IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, CONTACT MRS. HARRISON
 There is in Kathy Harrison's household a palpable sense of calm, achieved not with yoga and meditation but with stockpiled cans of powdered milk; several hundred pounds of oats, flour and rice; water purification tablets; a solar oven; and packs of hermetically sealed seeds. She believes in preparedness, and with ''Just in Case: How to Be Self-Sufficient When the Unexpected Happens,'' she is spreading the word. PAGE D1 
 ALL THEIR WORLD'S A STAGING
 With the real estate market slowing down, an increasing number of brokers and agents are recommending that their clients borrow a trick from professional set designers: stage their home. That means, among other things, that color schemes should be neutral. ''Decorating a home is personalizing it,'' one real estate broker explained. ''Staging a home is depersonalizing it.'' PAGE D5 
 Where Foliage Eclipses Flowers D6 
 OBITUARIES
 ANNE L. ARMSTRONG, 80
 An adviser to Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford and the first woman to serve as the United States ambassador to Britain, she became highly visible as one of the few White House officials willing and able to face hostile audiences as the Watergate scandal gathered force. PAGE C13 
 CLAY T. WHITEHEAD, 69
 An official in the Nixon administration, he laid the groundwork for Open Skies, the policy that led to the creation of the satellite system that brought cable television and lower-cost long-distance telephone service into American homes. PAGE C12 
 SPORTS
 TOUR'S CYCLISTS TO PLAY
 Canaries in the Coal Mine
 The greatest cyclists in the world will test Beijing's air for their fellow athletes when in two weeks they take a 161.6-mile toodle around the city. If they fall off their bikes gasping for air, it will be a clue to the International Olympic Committee that it miscalculated China's pollution problem. George Vecsey, Sports of the Times. PAGE C15 
 YANKEES ACQUIRE IVaN RODRIGUEZ
 In a move that was conceived and completed in less than six hours, the Yankees acquired Ivan Rodriguez from the Detroit Tigers, making Rodriguez the regular catcher for the Yankees five years after he led the Florida Marlins to a title and two years after he lifted Detroit to a pennant. PAGE C17 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SMOKING (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); SMOKING BANS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); FAMILY (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (73%); GENOCIDE (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); APPROVALS (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); THERMAL SENSORS (65%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (79%); BAN KI-MOON (50%); ALI KHAMENEI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (75%); SICHUAN, CHINA (56%) SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); GERMANY (93%); CHINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SERBIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



793 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: EADS Plans More Cost Cuts as Weak Dollar Hurts Position

BYLINE: By CAROLINE BROTHERS and DAVID JOLLY

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Under continuing pressure from a sagging dollar, EADS, the parent of the aviation giant Airbus, said Wednesday that it would extend a restructuring program and step up outsourcing in order to save another 1 billion euros, or $1.56 billion. 
 Exposure to the dollar has already forced European Aeronautic Defense and Space to start a program at Airbus to cut costs by 2.1 billion euros by 2010. The cuts include 10,000 job losses and the sale of sites in Germany and France. 
 On Wednesday, the chief executive of EADS, Louis Gallois, said that the cost-cutting program would be extended beyond Airbus and that EADS would cut another 1 billion euros across the company in 2011 and 2012. 
 Mr. Gallois said the latest plan would cut another 650 million euros from Airbus and 350 million euros from the other divisions and head office. 
 Airbus is ramping up production and will outsource some parts of its new orders to lower-cost countries rather than shed more jobs in Europe, he said. 
 The program ''was done when the euro equaled $1.35 and it is now higher,'' Mr. Gallois said. The euro was trading at $1.5599 Wednesday afternoon in New York. 
 ''We have to increase our protection against the dollar's weakness, and we have to internationalize Airbus because its footprint was too European,'' he added. ''If the dollar improves, we will be in a much stronger competitive situation.'' 
 Mr. Gallois said details of the plan must first be discussed with employees, adding that talks would take place in September and October. But he said plans to outsource some work from the Meault and Saint-Nazaire Airbus factories in France to Tunisia, and a similar plan for three sites to be grouped into a subsidiary in Germany, was one way to lower expenses. 
 Airbus will begin assembling some A320 short- to medium-range commercial passenger jets in China next year. If its contested bid to build an aerial refueling tanker for the Air Force is successful, it will also shift production of its A330 cargo planes to Mobile, Ala., although that is not included in its new cost-cutting. 
 Airbus manufactures in the euro area, but prices its products in dollars. The effect of the dollar's plunge to record lows against the euro is so severe that Airbus is exploring all avenues to shift production abroad, and to procure supplies -- like the new light composite materials used in fuselages -- outside Europe. 
 Earlier Wednesday, EADS reported a 46 percent jump in second-quarter net profit to 118 million euros on revenue that rose 5 percent to 9.9 billion euros. 
 EADS predicted that its 2008 revenue would exceed 40 billion euros, with about 470 aircraft being delivered this year. It also reaffirmed what Mr. Gallois called a ''conservative'' forecast for full-year operating profit of 1.8 billion euros, after 1.2 billion euros in the first half of the year. 
 ''They have set the bar very low -- 1.8 billion euros is more than achievable,'' said Rupinder Vig, an aerospace analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. 
 The weak dollar cost EADS some 700 million euros in the first six months of this year as it readjusted loss-making contracts, the company said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The EADS chief, Louis Gallois, center, at a bar in an A380 delivered to Emirates airline of Dubai. The company is trying to cut costs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBIAS SCHWARZ/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (73%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (62%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (94%); AIRBUS SAS (92%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (94%); EAD (MCE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%)

PERSON: LOUIS GALLOIS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); MOBILE, AL, USA (52%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (68%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); ALABAMA, USA (52%) FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (68%); CHINA (67%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



794 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: $70 Million Effort Seeks New Safety Net for Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Rockefeller Foundation's annual report is chock-full of photographs of exotic lands and details of its grants to fight disease in Cambodia and help African farmers improve their soil. 
 It is part of the foundation's focus on what it calls ''smart globalization.''
 But now the foundation has begun to focus on globalization's effects closer to home, specifically on the way it has increased economic insecurity for many American workers. 
 Concerned that thousands of corporations have cut back on health coverage and pensions -- partly because of competitive pressures fueled by globalization -- the Rockefeller Foundation has begun a $70 million effort to help build a new social safety net for the nation's workers, especially the poorest and most vulnerable. 
 ''As globalization was occurring, we started thinking this is going to affect us, too, that it's not just everyone else in the world wearing Levi's and listening to American music,'' said Judith Rodin, the foundation's president. ''We started looking at the economic implications of outsourcing and offshoring, and we saw that although globalization may help countries, it may not help individual workers in those countries, particularly in the developed world.''
 Dr. Rodin voiced concern this month that globalization had helped rip apart the social contract, dating from the 1940s, in which employers provided their workers with generous health coverage and pensions. 
 Out of such concern, the foundation has created the Campaign for American Workers, which has made 15 grants aimed primarily at restoring health and retirement security. Those grants, for instance, have gone to groups to develop affordable health coverage for workers under 35 and to increase retirement savings among African-Americans. 
 One grant went to Doorways to Dreams, based in Roxbury, Mass., to develop a demonstration program at several dozen tax preparation locations to encourage low-income and middle-income workers to invest part of their tax refunds in savings bonds. The goal is to encourage financial security and retirement savings among these workers. 
 In June, the Rockefeller Foundation and Time magazine sponsored a poll of 2,000 Americans to gauge the extent of economic insecurity. It found that 72 percent said Americans were less financially secure than 10 years ago. Sixty-six percent said they were not saving enough for retirement, while 23 percent said that they did not have health insurance at same point during the previous year.
 Noting that only about half of private-sector workers get health coverage through their employers, Janice Nittoli, the director of the Campaign for American Workers, said, ''I think the employer-based system of benefits, as battered as it is today, will fade into the sunset.''
 While John D. Rockefeller, the oil tycoon who founded the foundation, was not known for being friendly to workers, Dr. Rodin said the foundation has had a long history of helping workers. In the 1980s, it financed a program to improve the job prospects for the unemployed and underemployed, like welfare recipients and criminal offenders.
 ''We're the foundation that funded the committee that developed Social Security'' in the 1930s for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Dr. Rodin said.
 For Dr. Rodin, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania, a big concern is how globalization has affected the white-collar workers who lost jobs to Asia and blue-collar workers whose factory jobs have moved overseas. 
 ''You have to start thinking about the middle class as part of the vulnerable population that is at risk,'' she said. ''We can't trade protection or anti-immigrant our way out of this. We really have to think about economic security -- and insecurity -- in a much more creative and holistic way.''
 Sara Horowitz, founder of the Freelancers Union, an 80,000-member group based in Brooklyn that provides health and disability insurance to freelance workers, praised the foundation's work.
 ''They're trying to analyze what the next social safety net is going to look like, and instead of doing it by some big-picture analysis, they're funding a lot of different experiments to try to develop that safety net, and that makes their strategy pretty unique,'' she said.
 The Freelancers Union has received a $3 million Rockefeller grant to develop a 401(k) program for freelance workers and independent contractors that will have lower service fees than most 401(k)s. The project also calls for furnishing guidance on what type of 401(k) will be best.
 ''We're using mutual aid to set up these things,'' Ms. Horowitz said. ''We don't think they should take on all the risk of setting up their own benefits because a lot of them don't have the expertise.''
 The Rockefeller Foundation is financing a project to develop an economic security index, which, like the University of Michigan's consumer confidence index, will measure how economically insecure Americans feel. It is also financing a project to make annuities more affordable and attractive so that more Americans can buy annuities after they retire.
 Qvisory, a nonprofit based in Seattle, has received an $800,000 Rockefeller grant to provide credit counseling to help prevent many workers under 35 from drowning in a sea of debt. Qvisory is also giving online job advice and setting up health insurance products tailored to workers under 35, many of whom are not offered health insurance in their jobs.
 ''We're trying to teach people how to get out of debt and how to save,'' said Eileen Quigley, Qvisory's executive director. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judith Rodin, president of the Rockefeller Foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); OUTSOURCING (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); OFFSHORING (72%); BONDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CAMBODIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



795 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: ESPN and Theme Parks Bolster Profit at Disney

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company reported an 8.5 percent increase in profit on Wednesday, showing strong third-quarter results at its media networks and its theme parks.
 Disney's theme park business has come under scrutiny by investors and the news media in recent months because it is seen as an indicator of consumer confidence. The division, buffeted by rising prices for gasoline and airline tickets, proved critics wrong by posting a 5 percent increase in revenue and a 3 percent gain in operating profit. Higher attendance at Walt Disney World in Florida and at the company's theme park near Paris helped to fuel the results. 
 Analysts say Disney's parks have changed substantially since the last economic slowdown and thus may not be so vulnerable to the current economic woes. During the recession in the early 1990s, for instance, 55 percent of the hotel rooms at Walt Disney World were in the premium category. Now, 75 percent of hotel rooms at the resort are in the ''moderately priced or value priced'' category.
 Another profit engine for Disney in the third quarter, which ended June 28, was ESPN. Profit climbed 9 percent for the cluster of sports networks and Web sites. Higher advertising revenue and payments from cable affiliates were the primary reasons.
 A weak spot was the film studio, which had a hard time living up to the stellar third quarter it had in 2007 when it released ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End.'' ''The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian,'' released in May, did not meet expectations at the domestic box office. As a result, revenue at the studio sank 19 percent. Operating profit fell 49 percent.
 Over all, Disney's net income rose to $1.28 billion, or 66 cents a share, from $1.18 billion, or 57 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Revenue rose 2 percent, to $9.24 billion. The earnings did not include gains from the purchase of Disney Stores or the sale of Movies.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mickey and Minnie and a crowd at the Hong Kong Disneyland.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOBBY YIP/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); TICKET SALES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); FILM (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); TRAVEL TICKETS (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (98%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%); DISNEY STORE INC (52%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (98%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (98%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (98%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



796 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: China Key To Deadlock Over Trade

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE and KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
Some blamed soybeans. Others blamed cotton. And many pointed a finger at America's election-year politics. 
 But the collapse of negotiations to open world markets gave way Wednesday to resignation that a shift in the global economic hierarchy had darkened the prospect any time soon of a new accord to further open markets. 
 ''This is simply too complex,'' the director general of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, said of the multidimensional game of chess that finally ended in stalemate. 
 The negotiations foundered on the right of India and other developing countries to protect critical agricultural products from competition in exchange for cutting tariffs on imported industrial goods. 
 China and India have seldom shared the same views on free trade in recent years, but they were on the same side when the talks collapsed here on Tuesday because China made an abrupt about-face, signaling it may have leavened its interest in free trade with concerns about food security.
 At the same time, the United States, which often made concessions to lubricate previous deals, refused to make one now. 
 The issue was whether China and other countries can impose tariffs on some foodstuffs. Of particular interest was soybeans, of which the United States is a major exporter. The United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, argued that with certain measures in place, China could have increased tariffs on soybeans in 8 out of every 10 years.
 Critics argued that the United States had forced the issue because other problems remained unresolved, including the level of United States cotton subsidies. 
 According to several American officials, Washington saw the talks as a place to resolve the issue, because it had earlier lost a W.T.O. dispute with Brazil over cotton. Other negotiators said that in an election year, the United States probably never wanted to confront its farm lobby, including cotton farmers.
 The recriminations grew increasingly bitter Wednesday, as Peter Mandelson, the European negotiator, accused Ms. Schwab of refusing to budge even when her demands were met, and then going public with her grievances too quickly.
 Ms. Schwab hit back by criticizing Mr. Mandelson's negotiating tactics, and argued that the United States farm lobby had been largely supportive of the Doha agenda, which aimed to give smaller and poorer developing countries greater access to consumers in the United States, Europe and Japan.
 During the marathon talks, Mr. Lamy sought to accommodate an array of competing interests among developed and emerging nations. His innovation was to include China, India and Brazil in a seven-member group of countries that brokered a draft text. But the breakdown in those discussions highlighted the limits of even that flexible approach.
 For Celso Amorim, the Brazilian foreign minister and trade negotiator, the collapse was a sign that that the nature of W.T.O. negotiations had changed for good.
 ''In the past, it was an E.U.-U.S. business, or, maximum, the Quad,'' Mr. Amorim said, referring to a group comprising the United States, the European Union, Canada and Japan that once shaped the direction of trade talks. ''Now it is a more complex trading system. You have to look at developing countries as a force.''
 Even as the United States dug in against making fresh concessions, China's efforts to protect its own interests has tilted the playing field in a profound new way. Growing concerns in China about food security appear to have overridden the country's previous commitment to free trade, which has given it the world's second-largest trade surplus after Germany's in recent years. 
 Since joining the W.T.O. in November 2001, China has been an outspoken defender of free-trade principles. It has been especially critical of the United States, for example, for invoking so-called safeguard rules to prevent an increase of Chinese textile imports that threatened to put American manufacturers out of business.
 But this week, China allied itself with Indian negotiators in insisting on safeguard rules for agriculture, and sought to require that developing countries be allowed to impose prohibitively high tariffs on food imports from affluent countries to halt increases in imports that might put farmers in poor countries out of business.
 When the United States and other food exporters refused to accept the Chinese and Indian positions, the talks broke down.
 As food prices have soared worldwide in recent months, many countries with a food surplus have imposed limits on exports to retain supplies for their own populations. China has become increasingly focused on making sure that its farmers can continue to produce most of the food needed for the 1.3 billion people in that country, and leery of having to rely on imports.
 China and India had long had divergent vested interests in international trade negotiations, because they joined the W.T.O. under different circumstances and are covered by remarkably different trade rules.
 The world's major trading powers forced China to lower or eliminate most of its trade barriers in exchange for letting it into the trade group in November 2001. China accepted this deal because its membership forced other countries to eliminate quotas and cut tariffs on Chinese exports -- and these exports have been soaring ever since.
 Since China has relatively few trade barriers to defend, and since its exports are highly competitive in many industries, it has tended until now to favor open markets.
 By contrast, India still has some of the world's highest barriers to imports, because it was a charter member of the W.T.O.'s predecessor in 1947 and has been able to resist lowering many protections for its industries ever since. 
 Kamal Nath, the Indian minister of commerce and industry, and the top Indian trade negotiator, said in a recent interview that developing countries needed to be able to protect their own food supplies. ''Every country must first ensure its own food security,'' he said.
 Mr. Nath also contended that developing countries' farmers have too often faced unfair competition from industrialized countries -- a point that China repeated this week. The United States and the European Union agreed to accept some limits on their farm subsidies in negotiations this week, but their reductions were much more limited than developing countries wanted.
 There is a long history of countries' endorsing free trade in manufactured goods while opposing free trade in farm products. The United States and Western European nations created the current international trading system after World War II and dismantled many trade barriers for industrial products. But they did relatively little for farm trade until the completion of the Uruguay Round talks in 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); COTTON FARMING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); AGRICULTURE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (56%); PETER MANDELSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); BRAZIL (93%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



797 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Woes of the Past Prod Paterson to Act Early

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
It was early 2002. Wall Street's profits had collapsed after the 9/11 attacks, unemployment was on the rise and tax revenue was plummeting. 
 In Albany, though, there was little action. Gov. George E. Pataki -- facing re-election, along with the entire Legislature -- brushed aside warnings later that year from a fellow Republican, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, that the state budget gap was far worse than the administration had acknowledged. 
 Not until early 2003 did the administration concede that there was an $11.5 billion shortfall, and the results were painful and acrimonious: months of feuding between the governor and the Legislature over spending cuts and an income tax increase. 
 Budget experts say the state's current fiscal problems are not yet as severe as in 2003, but they warn that if Albany does not move quickly and aggressively to address them, the state could face the same sort of dire choices it confronted five years ago. 
 This week, Gov. David A. Paterson seemed to embrace that message. On Tuesday, he declared a state fiscal crisis and said he would order the Legislature into session next month to address a projected $7 billion budget gap for the coming two years. On Wednesday, he announced plans to freeze state hiring immediately and to reduce agency spending by 7 percent, on top of a 3.35 percent cut he implemented earlier this year. He also said he would consider long-term leases of state assets to raise revenue. 
 He is drawing lessons from what happened in 2002 and 2003, he said in his remarks Wednesday. 
 ''I objected to what I thought was a budget projection that was $12 billion off and the inability of our government at that time to tell us where we actually stand,'' he said. ''The only relief I feel is that I can clear my conscience and that of state government that we're telling the public where it is and where we stand.'' 
 The Paterson administration is clearly considering the long shadow cast over New York by the continuing downturn on Wall Street, which accounts for one-fifth of the state's revenue. Bear Stearns nearly collapsed earlier this year, and once seemingly impregnable investment firms appear to be hemorrhaging money. Merrill Lynch and other investment banks have had to reduce the value of assets on their books by tens of billions of dollars in the last year. 
 Perhaps most troubling is that the effect of the credit crisis that began in the subprime mortgage market has yet to come into clear focus.
 So far, the Legislature has reacted coolly to the governor's warnings. It does so at the state's peril, analysts say, and they have praised Mr. Paterson for trying to raise a sense of urgency. 
 ''He's looking to break with the default pattern,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative-leaning research group. 
 That pattern, he said, has too often been ''denial followed by much talk about cuts, but in reality, mostly gimmickry, borrowing, one-shots and tax increases.'' One of the most notable of those gimmicks came in the fiscal crisis of the early 1990s, when Mario M. Cuomo's administration was roundly criticized for selling Attica prison to one of the state's own ostensibly independent public authorities for $200 million.
 Mr. McMahon also noted that the current market distress was affecting the state's revenue in numerous ways. On Wednesday, for instance, the state disclosed that it was expecting $310 million less in revenue next year from the conversion in 2002 of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield into a profit-making company. 
 Analysts say Mr. Paterson bears some responsibility for having delayed addressing the economic slowdown by supporting a budget in April that increased spending well above the rate of inflation. The governor's aides note, however, that he was thrust into office on March 17 after the abrupt resignation of Eliot Spitzer, well after budget negotiations with the Legislature were under way. 
 By Albany standards, many see his current move as coming early in the game.
 ''It's the conservative approach to managing the situation, and it's the right course of action,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director for the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit civic organization.
 The Paterson administration said the projected deficit for next year has grown to $6.4 billion from $5 billion and the deficit for the next three years to $26.2 billion from $21.5 billion. The governor said Wednesday that there was also a $630 million imbalance in the current fiscal year, which runs through the end of next March. 
 He wants the Legislature to help him cut $1.2 billion this year, in part by reopening the budget passed in early April.
 In historical terms, the current shortfall does not measure up to problems faced in the recent past. By 2003, the projected budget gap was 24 percent of the state's general fund; by comparison, the gap for next year is now 10.5 percent of the general fund, according to the Citizens Budget Commission.
 Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a left-leaning research group, rejected Mr. Paterson's characterization of the current situation as a ''crisis,'' saying the word should be applied only when the state is facing a huge disruption of services. That, he said, is not the case now. 
 But he credited Mr. Paterson with trying to act early. ''What's different about what's going on now is that rather than wait for a problem, they are anticipating it,'' he said.
 Mr. Mauro and Mr. McMahon both saw the current situation as similar to the problems faced by Mr. Cuomo in the early 1990s.
 The state, Mr. McMahon said, was spending beyond its revenue now to an extent reminiscent of that period. 
 ''That's when the last real estate bubble was bursting, and that was the last time there were tens of thousands of layoffs on Wall Street,'' he said. 
 Taxes were increased frequently in that period, but Mr. Paterson said a tax increase would be a last resort, and Senate Republicans have concurred. 
 Mr. Paterson will ultimately be judged by what he can achieve, and that means what he can get the Legislature to do. But lawmakers and labor unions have spent much of this week outlining a long list of various cuts they will not accept. 
 ''When everybody runs to their favorite program and says it's not on the table, well that is why we are in the situation we are now,'' the governor said Wednesday. At the same time, he apologized for suggesting on Tuesday that the Legislature had been vacationing. 
 He might find it harder to reach a deal with Assembly Democrats than with the Senate Republicans. Many in the Assembly are concerned that the governor has forsaken his liberal Democratic roots and is too focused on cutbacks. They are also upset that he previously rejected their proposal to increase taxes on those earning $1 million or more. 
 ''I don't think there's a real crisis. There's a modest shortfall which requires some modifications,'' said Assemblyman Rory Lancman, a Democrat from Queens.
 ''Lots of us had high hopes when he became governor that the same progressive senator and lieutenant governor would become a progressive governor,'' he added. ''But the entire construct of this conversation he has created has been from the right. Well, which programs are we going to cut and how many employees are we going to lay off?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson at his news conference on Wednesday in Manhattan. With him was Laura Anglin, the budget director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HENDERSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008



798 of 798 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 974 words

PERSON: Clay T. Whitehead 

HEADLINE: Clay T. Whitehead, Guide of Policy That Helped Cable TV, Is Dead at 69

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Clay T. Whitehead, the official in the Nixon administration who laid the groundwork for Open Skies, the policy that led to the creation of the domestic satellite system that brought cable television and lower-cost long-distance telephone service into millions of American homes, died in Washington on July 23. He was 69 and lived in McLean, Va.
 The cause was prostate cancer, his wife, Margaret, said. 
 As director of the White House Office of Telecommunications Policy from 1970 to 1974, Mr. Whitehead (who preferred to be called by the diminutive of his middle name, Tom) was a technological innovator with a free-market approach to the newborn information revolution and a controversial voice in President Richard M. Nixon's battles with journalists.
 In the throes of the Vietnam War and Watergate, Brian Lamb, chief executive of C-Span, the public affairs cable network, said in a telephone interview this week, ''Tom walked a fine line when they wanted in many cases to use the power levers of the White House to manipulate or control the output of the media.'' At the time, Mr. Lamb was Mr. Whitehead's assistant.
 Two phrases from a speech Mr. Whitehead gave in 1972 came to epitomize his and the administration's contention of a liberal bias in network news: ''elitist gossip'' and ''ideological plugola.'' 
 Still, Mr. Lamb said: ''The most important thing Tom did was to direct the president's policy on domestic satellite communications. That was the trigger that led to the diminution of power of the three networks and AT&T, allowing for the creation of new cable television channels and low-cost long-distance telephone systems.'' 
 Under Open Skies, which became Federal Communications Commission policy, any qualified company could launch a domestic communications satellite, meaning potential users did not have to subscribe to one major provider. There are now several dozen satellites in the system. 
 Mr. Whitehead was chairman of a cabinet committee that issued a report in 1974, setting the tone for the future of cable television. It called for the virtual removal of government regulation over the new medium. Until then, cable had been seen as an extension of broadcast television, subject to regulation under the Communications Act of 1934.
 ''The committee has concluded,'' the report said, ''that programming, advertising and other information and services on cable channels can be allowed to develop on a free and competitive basis, with no more regulatory power exercised over the content of this communications medium than is exercised over the print or film media.''
 Thomas Hazlett, a professor of economics and law at George Mason University, said that Mr. Whitehead ''spearheaded a deregulatory movement that brought much more liberal rules and far stronger First Amendment protection to the emerging media.''
 ''Cable television was first,'' he continued, ''but the effect of allowing the new information services to compete in a more open environment set the stage for progress in the technologies to come, including the Internet and cellular.''
 But Mr. Whitehead had to perform a balancing act. In 1972, he rattled the nation's public broadcasting system when he recommended that it end national news and public affairs programming and stress local programming, or possibly lose government funds.
 A memorandum he wrote to Mr. Nixon said: ''We stand to gain substantially from an increase in the relative power of the local stations. They are generally less liberal and more concerned with education than with controversial national affairs. Further, a decentralized system would have far less influence and be far less attractive to social activists.''
 Yet, in 1974, Mr. Whitehead persuaded the president to sign a bill prepared by his office that extended federal funds for public television for five years.
 One evening in April 1974, as the Watergate crisis moved toward its climax, Philip W. Buchen, a member of Vice President Gerald R. Ford's staff, went to dinner at Mr. Whitehead's home and said: ''We have to do some planning for Jerry. We have to face the fact the president may resign.'' For the next three months, Mr. Whitehead, Mr. Buchen and three other federal aides laid out plans for Mr. Ford's first days in office. 
 Clay Thomas Whitehead was born in Neodesha, Kan., on Nov. 13, 1938, the eldest of four children of Clay and Helen Hinton Whitehead. He graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in electrical engineering in 1960; earned a master's degree there in the same field a year later; and in 1967 received a doctorate in management from M.I.T. 
 In 1973, he married Margaret Mahon. Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Clay; a daughter, Abigail Craine; and three sisters, Susan and Nancy Whitehead and Helen Conerly.
 Mr. Whitehead came early to telecommunications. As a boy, he spent hours on his Heathkit ham radio talking to amateur operators around the world. With his M.I.T. degrees, he took that interest to defense studies at the RAND Corporation. 
 After his White House service, Mr. Whitehead joined Hughes Aircraft, starting the Hughes Communications subsidiary and forming Galaxy, a satellite system that carried television programming to cable operators around the country. Mr. Whitehead left Hughes in 1983 and started SES-ASTRA, the first private satellite business in Europe.
 Not all of his flying interests were extraterrestrial. On April 7, 1970, while at the White House, Mr. Whitehead wrote a memorandum to a colleague, Jeb Magruder, protesting a 1892 law that banned kite-flying in Washington. 
 ''I reiterate my suggestion that we consider a presidential message asking for repeal,'' he wrote. 
 The law was repealed. Soon after, Mr. Whitehead flew a kite on the National Mall; it struck the Washington Monument. 

GRAPHIC: Clay T. Whitehead 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (60%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); PROSTATE CANCER (56%); VIETNAM WAR (54%)

RICHARD NIXON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2008

 
