

401 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1; Home Front

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Staying in a Shelter, and in the Workplace

BYLINE: By Leslie Kaufman. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MOST of those who pack New York City's vast homeless shelter system have long been out of a job or perhaps never managed to become regularly employed in the first place. Even those who have jobs when they enter the system frequently find that managing the crisis is too all-consuming to continue working.
 Still, city officials say, plenty of those who rely on the city to put a roof over their heads each evening still get up and go to work every day. (The city does not track exactly how many shelter clients are employed.) 
 Rebecca R., a domestic violence survivor, who has been homeless for about three years since she fled her abusive partner, has held onto her job as a secretary at a local college. The shelter the city provides for her and her four children, she said, has at points made keeping that job hard.
 During the three years, the city moved her to a city-financed private apartment, to two family shelters in different boroughs, and at one point to a different place each night for a month. While in a shelter in Brooklyn for nine months in 2002 and 2003, she woke the children at 5 a.m. so they could be on the train by 6 for their long trek to jobs and schools on the other side of the city.
 Rebecca, who asked that her last name and the location of her job not be disclosed because she is still scared of the man who was abusing her, said the worst part of the ordeal came last February when she was kicked out of the Brooklyn shelter for violating a rule demanding that all clients return within 48 hours. She said a snowstorm and a sick child had kept her and her children at their baby sitter's house overnight. City officials said she was gone much longer.
 She was sent back to the family homeless intake office in the Bronx, where for nearly a month she was bounced through different overnight placements. Exhaustion and frustration caused her to miss at least a week of work, she said.
 Rebecca was able to save her job, however, because of two lucky breaks. For starters, she had a long track record as a reliable worker, and her supervisor was sympathetic, letting her spend time away from the job to tackle housing problems. Second, and perhaps more important, she had a friend who went to extraordinary lengths to help out. ''During the week I was out,'' she recalled, ''my friend covered by doing double shift from 8 in the morning to 8 at night.''
 In the end it was the thought of this colleague, who was missing time with her own children, that motivated Rebecca to get back to work no matter what. ''I'd say I am going to be 15 minutes late or an hour late or whatever,'' Rebecca said, ''but I'd tell her I am coming.'' Recently, she learned that she will get a federal housing subsidy, and she is planning to leave the shelter this month.
 For others, the city's shelter system has been a much more nurturing place for work. Jerome Griffin, 46, for example, has worked the last seven months as a security guard at a center for the elderly. 
 A former crack cocaine addict, he arrived in New York in late 2002 jobless, homeless and broke. By the time he took up residence at the city's 30th Street center for homeless men, he had been clean for seven months, but he said, ''I didn't trust myself to work.'' 
 In the shelter, though, good things began to happen. First, a friend referred him to a nine-month residential drug treatment program that reinforced his will to stay clean. Through the program, he heard about the opening for a security guard through a private agency, MJC. It was the first job he applied for since becoming homeless, and he was hired. ''I got the job through God. It was not my doing,'' he said.
 On his job application, he did not mention his homelessness. He simply put down the drug program's Madison Avenue address as his own. Caution has been his motto. ''If they had asked me, I would have told them, but they never asked me and it is not their business,'' he said with a touch of defensiveness.
 Since leaving the drug program, Mr. Griffin has been living in the city's gleaming new men's shelter on Porter Avenue in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He said the shelter's staff encouraged him to keep working.
 Since he works the graveyard shift from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m., he said, he does not mind sharing dormitory quarters. ''It is quiet during the day because everyone is away.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerome Griffin is a security guard at night and lives in a shelter by day, but says he does not mind sharing quarters. ''It is quiet during the day because everyone is away.'' (Photo by Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY SHELTERS (91%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (88%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (78%); CITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%) Homeless Persons; Labor

PERSON: Leslie Kaufman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



402 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Lime Jell-O Marshmallow Cottage Cheese Surprise

BYLINE: By Paul Levy. 
Paul Levy is editing the letters of Lytton Strachey. His collection of culinary adventures, ''Out to Lunch,'' has recently been reissued.

 BODY:

SOMETHING FROM
THE OVEN
Reinventing Dinner in 1950s America.
By Laura Shapiro.
Illustrated. 306 pp. New York:
Viking. $24.95.
 EVERYBODY who lived through the 1950's in America will recall how awful the food was. Party fare consisted of dips made by mixing a tub of sour cream with a packet of dried onion soup. Home cooks made sauces by adding a can of condensed mushroom soup to chicken -- or incorporated the same cylinder of sludge, plus crushed cornflakes, into meatloaf that tasted just as nasty. It is either brave or perverse of Laura Shapiro to want to remember, let alone write a book about, what might be the worst culinary decade in history.
 Shapiro's previous book, ''Perfection Salad,'' showed what happened when ''science'' sneaked into the late-19th-century American kitchen, quantifying ingredients in recipes where previously women had relied on their senses (and common sense) to tell them, for example, how much liquid had to be added to the flour and yeast to make a workable dough. The kitchen acquired new shibboleths: food had to do more than taste good and fill you up, it also had to satisfy the demands of the nutrition and sanitation inspectors. Now everybody knew about calories and germs.
 Though the expression ''scientific cookery'' soon disappeared, its exponents had already made an alliance with the nascent food industry, giving us, as Shapiro puts it in her introduction to ''Something From the Oven,'' ''the canned soup gravy, the pale, puffy bread and the omnipresent bottle of ketchup . . . culinary icons that would forever be identified with the American table.'' But it was only after the end of World War II, she adds, that the food industry would ''take aim at home cooking per se, rapturously envisioning a day when virtually all contact between the cook and the raw makings of dinner would be obsolete.''
 Shapiro apologizes that her book ''focuses almost exclusively on middle-class women,'' but there's no need for guilt -- the hegemony of Nescafe, Bisquick and Jell-O extended almost immediately to the blue-collar kitchen, and the reaction against it has benefited all classes of society. Shapiro's tale of how America gradually turned from eating TV dinners to using the television to learn how to cook real food cheers up immensely when she leaves behind the Cheez Whiz and sherry (added to pep up broccoli) and, in a chapter called ''Don't Check Your Brains at the Kitchen Door,'' introduces Poppy Cannon, the first of the many engaging heroines of this deliciously readable book.
 While the ''gourmet'' champion James Beard represented the good taste (in both senses) of traditional American and European cuisine, with its ''glorious heap of fresh ingredients -- the meats, fish, vegetables and herbs that needed only his talented hands to release their goodness,'' Poppy Cannon went slumming to cultivate her new audience, the housewife who worked outside the home. But first Cannon (the author of ''The Bride's Cookbook'' and ''The Can-Opener Cookbook,'' which gives a clearer indication of her style) had to reinvent herself, for she was born Lillian Gruskin in 1905 in Cape Town, South Africa, to Lithuanian Jewish parents, and knew perfectly well the difference between good food and the time-saving trash-nosh she advocated. She wrote her bride's book not long after her fourth marriage -- to her former lover, the high-public-profile, blue-eyed blond but officially black civil rights activist Walter White.
 In 1953, Cannon reinvented herself again when she became food editor of House Beautiful, in which capacity she edited the great M. F. K. Fisher, the literary antidote to ''the marshmallow-salad school of quick cooking.'' Shapiro argues that Cannon's veneration of Fisher (she cited ''The Art of Eating'' as her favorite food book), as well as her unlikely friendship with another great writer/cook/eater, Alice B. Toklas, shows another, deeper and less vulgar side to her character.
 Though ''Something From the Oven'' has the shape of a history of the debasing and subsequent improvement of American domestic cooking, Shapiro is at her considerable best as a biographer of the writers who wrought these changes. Alongside culinary authorities who advised baking ''a loaf of luncheon meat with blue cheese topping,'' there were authors like Anne Morrow Lindbergh, urging gentle self-improvement in her ''Gift From the Sea,'' and the (more important as well as more entertaining) writers who found comedy in domestic catastrophe. These sprang from Betty MacDonald's 1945 back-to-the-land idyll gone wrong, ''The Egg and I,'' and took in books by Shirley Jackson (''Life Among the Savages'') and Jean Kerr (''Please Don't Eat the Daisies'') -- every one of which I can remember seeing on my own working mother's bookshelves in Kentucky in the late 1950's.
 Except for the usual beat-up ''Fanny Farmer'' and a few aspirational Gourmet spinoffs, I don't remember any other cookbooks on her shelves. That's because the recipes for most new dishes (until the early 1960's we still had someone who cooked for us, a feature of domestic life in the South that Shapiro slightly overlooks) came from labels and packets, a phenomenon closely associated with the fictitious faster-food heroine, Betty Crocker. Shapiro has done her research well, and her book contains all you'll ever want to know about the at-times tedious home-economics-trained impersonators of the original domestic goddess.
 In Shapiro's pantheon, two divas reign supreme, Julia Child and Betty Friedan. We often forget that the author of ''The Feminine Mystique,'' for all that she valued work outside the home, also prized domesticity. For her part, Julia Child liberated men as well as women, and in a different way. By dint of her huge personality and televisual skills, she showed the nation that cooking didn't need to be a penance. She didn't promise, like Betty Crocker, to make cooking easier; instead, she promised to make it fun and interesting -- and did. It was these traits that had been lost in the swinish rush to the canned picnic ham: not just the joy of cooking but the intellectual aspects of planning, preparing and serving a meal to family and friends who might find it interesting as well as satisfying to eat.
 Shapiro sees that the next step, what we might pardonably call the Foodie Revolution, brought about more recently by people like Alice Waters and institutions like the farmers' market movement, is reconnecting thoughtful gastronomy to agriculture. There's a bonus. Her striking conclusion is that ''although women still prepare most of the family meals, cooking has become the first domestic chore to float free of sex roles.'' But she also allows herself to gloat a little: ''Most important, men are making dinner even when they don't particularly want to.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Adam Auerbach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHEESE (90%); MILK (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); WRITERS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); LITERATURE (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Paul Levy; Laura Shapiro

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



403 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7; In the Region/New Jersey

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: 'New Urbanism' Is Driving a Big Waterfront Project

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: PERTH AMBOY 

 BODY:
THIS historic little city's waterfront is just an arm's length from that of Staten Island, and yet a world away in style. 
 Over there: nice homes, even mansions, their elegant windows and rooflines clearly visible across the four-fifths of a mile of the sparkling sound. 
 Over here: industrial detritus, contaminated ground, and an empty Naval Reserve center that closed nine years ago.
 This is all changing, and the old naval center holds the key to the future. Better said, perhaps, it houses the vision of the future. 
 The building, at the foot of Smith Street, at water's edge, is about to reopen as an innovative ''sales and design center'' for the Landings at Harborside, offering a walk-through view of models for a new waterfront community of 2,100 condominiums, 150,000 square feet of retail space, and a landscaped esplanade.
 The Landings has been designed by architects advocating ''New Urbanism,'' which, in the words of one of them, Ted Liebman, ''is really about providing people with the kind of lifestyle that preceded today's overdependence on the automobile.'' 
 The project will include low- and mid-rise condominium buildings, town houses, duplexes and triplexes, all with shared courtyards, underground parking, and access to three waterside parks, retail shops, an international market selling ethnic food, restaurants -- and, eventually, a hotel.
 ''The middle class moved out of Perth Amboy when the factories closed,'' said Mayor Joseph Vas, who has headed the drive to revive his city. ''But this waterfront environment is an exceptional place to live, and an exceptional site for a New Urbanist design to take shape. We know this will quickly become one of the most desirable places to live in the state.''
 Mr. Liebman belongs to the Liebman Melting Partnership, the New York-based firm that is the projectwide architect and master planner for the Landings at Harborside. ''It's not about creating a gated community,'' he hastened to say. That, he added, would be inappropriate for a city like Perth Amboy, with its long history as a point of entry for immigrants. ''It's about creating a real urban community with pedestrian-friendly streets, trees, recreation areas and an accessible downtown. It's about a place that encourages people to leave their cars behind and go out on foot to socialize, relax, shop and play.''
 Sam Gershwin, president of Westminster Communities, the development arm of the Kushner Companies that is building the $600 million project, called it ''visionary.'' He said he had decided to invest in transforming the naval training center into something special during construction because the size and scope of the project warrant it.
 ''This was the first city to be incorporated in the state of New Jersey,'' he said. ''It housed the first artists' colony and was home to the first African-American man to vote in the United States. What we are creating here at the Landings will be so new and different that it will create a new chapter in the history of Perth Amboy and New Jersey.'' Mr. Gershwin's crew has constructed what resembles a movie set inside the building, and has included a room for viewing a movie about the Landings.
 The sales and design center will open May 1 for ''preview'' visits from the 500 or so people who have already inquired after seeing an advertisement, and in mid-May for the general public.
 A visitor will walk through the front door into a Landings streetscape, complete with building facades and a landscaped courtyard. There, a receptionist will offer a ''tour'' by way of a scale model of the entire project, including all four phases of the development. Pull-out drawers attached to buildings in the model contain floor plans and miniature three-dimensional home layouts.
 From there, a visitor will be directed to the theater, where a virtual reality DVD provides a ''living'' tour of the future marina district. Then, visitors walk down the hall for mocked-up town houses and condominium layouts. They can stand at the kitchen sink, run their hand over the wallpaper, consider the way a favorite easy chair would look in the corner; then they can proceed upstairs to the second-floor atrium and look down on rooms equipped with everything but ceilings.
 THERE will be space for children to play and grownups to confer about potential purchases, Mr. Gershwin said. 
 The majority of inquiries about units at the Landings so far have come from empty nesters, he said. But Alan Melting, a Liebman Melting partner, said the design was also family friendly. ''With New Urbanism design, many of the homes have views of the courtyard play area, so someone always has an eye on your children. The cleaners and the bank are just a walk away, down friendly streets.''
 ''Most people will not have experienced this kind of lifestyle, this sense of community and security, in any other setting in which they have lived,'' Mr. Melting said.
 Prices for condos at the first two buildings, to be built adjacent to the sales center, will range from the mid-$200,000's to $400,000, Mr. Gershwin said.
 ''Compare that to New York prices,'' added Mayor Vas. ''We do not necessarily expect this to be a commuter community, although we are negotiating for commuter ferry service to Manhattan. But it will be a fantastic alternative, at a bargain, for anyone.''
 At the construction site on Perth Amboy's eastern shore, where a box factory once operated and residue from adhesives permeated the soil, the environmental cleanup begun three years ago is now complete. Last summer, work was begun on improving the infrastructure, and ground was recently broken for the first two residential buildings. 
 The entire Landings project will take about four more years to complete, according to Mr. Gershwin.
 Jeffrey Freireich, vice chairman and managing partner at the Kushner Companies, said Kushner leapt at the opportunity to develop the project, despite the fact that the Perth Amboy market for upscale residential housing is untested. 
 ''Sometimes we take risks other developers will not take,'' he said, noting that Kushner was also at work on redevelopment projects in Asbury Park and Cranford, and was recently named redeveloper for the Garwood Mills site at Caspian Point in Atlantic City. ''We like to think we're in the forefront of trends toward redevelopment in the state of New Jersey.''
 Besides, Mr. Freireich said, as developers generally find the state and local regulatory process for suburban development increasingly frustrating, it is rewarding to be welcomed into a city that seeks to redevelop blighted areas.
 ''We are rebuilding areas that will lead to tax ratables for the city, taking an unsightly area and making it aesthetically pleasing, and we find that cities in these cases are more than willing to cooperate with developers to move forward,'' he said. 
 Mayor Vas is also a Democratic state assemblyman, and said he was thoroughly supportive of the McGreevey administration's push to contain suburban sprawl and encourage urban revitalization.
 Mr. Vas, who has become something of an expert on local history, said Perth Amboy, which was designated the capital of East Jersey in 1686, has a lustrous history that should not molder into obscurity.
 He said that the city's population was currently 69 percent of Spanish-speaking heritage -- primarily Puerto Rican, Cuban, and Dominican -- but that differing cultures had predominated in different eras. Before the 1950's, he said, the majority of residents were Eastern European immigrants.
 The Lenni Lenape Indians originally settled the town, the mayor said. They named it Ompoge, which evolved into the ''Amboy.'' Perth was later added to the name in honor of the Earl of Perth, one of the British nobles who designated the place a city. In the early 1700's, Perth Amboy received its official charter from King George I of England.
 Perth Amboy is home to the only official Royal Governor's Palace still intact from colonial days, a mansion built for Governor William Franklin, the son of Benjamin Franklin, who moved into the house in 1774.
 Perth Amboy is also home to the oldest City Hall in continuous use in the United States. It was established in 1685, rebuilt twice after fires, and renovated and added to at various points, but the site has always served as the seat of local government.
 Perth Amboy was also the site of the Eagleswood School, founded as a utopian center in 1853 by Marcus and Rebecca Spring, who invited intellectuals, artists, and abolitionists to visit and teach there, including Louisa May Alcott, Henry Thoreau and Ralph Waldo Emerson. Just before the Civil War, Rebecca Spring arranged to have the bodies of two men who were hanged with the abolitionist John Brown buried at Eagleswood, where their graves remain.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A living room at the sales center for the Landings at Harborside in Perth Amboy. The center is at a former Naval Reserve building. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)Map of New Jersey highlighting site of the Landings at Harborside.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITIES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); RETAILERS (74%); MILITARY TRAINING (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); RETAIL PROPERTY (68%); IMMIGRATION (65%) Housing; Condominiums

ORGANIZATION: Westminster Communities

PERSON: Antoinette Martin; Ted Liebman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%) Perth Amboy (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



404 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 2978 words

HEADLINE: The End of Primary Care

BYLINE: By Lisa Sanders, M.D.. 
Lisa Sanders, M.D., writes the Diagnosis column for the magazine. She is the author of ''The Perfect Fit Diet.''

 BODY:
The patient shivered as she waited for the doctor to climb the stairs to the second floor. She was 6 years old, and a fever had kept her home for the past few days. Her mother, half of a working couple with four other children, called the doctor that afternoon. The child listened as her mother's voice grew closer, punctuated by an occasional low-pitched question. Fear overcame malaise, and the girl slipped quietly under the bed. The doctor, a tall, thin man with reddish-blond hair and freckles, glanced around the room and then somewhat awkwardly lowered himself onto the floor. He smiled at the girl. ''Hello, Lisa,'' he said to me. And then we talked -- right there, underneath the bed, as if it were the most natural thing in the world. 
 I don't remember what we talked about or how long the conversation lasted. But that morning and for years after, I trusted the man with the freckled face to care for me -- whenever care was needed. It's that bond that drew me and others to the practice of medicine. We longed to be the person entrusted with the care of another. For both doctor and patient, there exists in that relationship the possibility of profound satisfaction. The patient feels content, knowing that his physical health has an active, knowledgeable champion. The doctor is rewarded with a similar gratification watching a lifetime of education and experience redeemed in practice. The mutual satisfaction of good doctoring is difficult to discuss in an era so focused on quantifiable results. Yet patients look for it. And med students anticipate it as they enter their training. That connection is certainly why I knew when I decided to become a doctor that I wanted to be like my own Dr. James.
 I arrived at medical school as part of the class of 1996. That year, a third of the medical students in the United States planned, like me, to practice primary care medicine. Even here at Yale, long the bastion of superspecialization, primary care medicine had made its mark: there were the Primary Care Club and the Primary Care dinners, where we heard speakers talk about the future of primary care medicine. I felt at home among these doctors who struggled with the issue of caring for the whole patient in addition to the pharmacology, physiology and technology of medicine. We would be the very linchpin of 21st-century medicine. Even in the ivory tower, the complexity of taking care of a human being over time -- what one physician recently dubbed ''big doctoring'' -- and the important role it was to play in the entire architecture of America's health care created its own kind of excitement. When I finished medical school, I entered a residency program devoted to teaching new doctors the skills essential to those on the front lines of care. After training, I joined the faculty of Yale's primary care program. 
 Over the past few years, though, I have witnessed a troubling change: the future of primary care doctoring is in danger. Applications to this program and to programs like it have plummeted. The year I applied to Yale, I was among nearly a thousand graduates vying for one of its 30 positions. Last year that number dropped to just over 500. Yale's program is one of the largest and most influential in the country but, like others, has recently struggled to attract the most talented graduates. Finally, after watching the applicant pool dwindle, after years of discussion, we cut the size of this year's incoming class by a third. The changing marketplace has led to some smart innovations in what we teach and how we teach it. But it has also driven us to consider more disconcerting changes, like ridding ourselves of the ''primary care'' label we once wore so proudly. 
 We certainly aren't alone: according to the National Resident Matching Program, the organization that coordinates placement for postgraduate medical training, the number of primary care residency programs has dropped by more than a third over the past decade. And most of those remaining are now smaller. During the same period, the number of doctors applying for postgraduate training overall has increased. ''When students come to medical school, being somebody's doctor is really what they want to do. Somehow, by the time they leave, we've changed their minds; they'd rather do just about anything but that.'' That's the assessment of Dr. Allan Goroll, an early advocate of primary care training and the author of the most widely used textbook in primary care medicine. What happened? Why don't medical-school graduates want to be ''somebody's doctor'' anymore? And it's not just doctors: patients, even those with insurance, are voting with their feet, increasingly choosing to visit emergency rooms and specialists directly. Is this just the marketplace speaking? Or could it be that the idea of the personal physician is out of date and that the time has come to retire the picture of Marcus Welby?
The whole concept of a specialty devoted to primary care is both very old and pretty new. At the turn of the last century, there were no specialists. Doctors hung out a shingle and performed every conceivable kind of medicine. While individual doctors may have been well known for their skills in surgery, or in the delivery room, their training was no different. They were all just somebody's doctor. Then, early in the 20th century, it became clear that surgery required a different type of training than the other forms of doctoring, and the American College of Surgeons was born in 1913. Until World War II, there were just two kinds of doctors -- physicians and surgeons. 
 The discovery of penicillin and the rapid development of medical technology moved medicine out of the home in the 50's. In hospitals and in new laboratories, specialty medicine flourished. The sheer number of sick patients of all types gave doctors the opportunity to develop a comprehensive knowledge of a single disease or field. These newly trained specialists led the charge against heart disease, cancer, pneumonia and diabetes. Newspaper headlines trumpeted their success as these diseases began to give up their secrets to this generation of physicians armed with new training and newer technology.
 Of course, the general practitioner had neither: he was just a doc with four years of medical school plus a yearlong internship under his belt when he started practicing. He had gotten most of his training on the job. How could he compete with these new specialists? Graduating doctors flocked to hospital-based training programs to enter the rarefied air of specialty medicine. In 1940, three-quarters of doctors were generalists. Three decades later, only 20 percent were. Around that time, though, it became clear that in trading up from the general practitioner to the specialist, some things had been lost. 
 In 1961, The New England Journal of Medicine published a paper that used the new science of epidemiology to show that specialists, with all their fancy training, were actually rather poorly prepared for the patients they saw once they went into practice. These doctors learned medicine by treating the sickest patients, yet many ended up caring for a relatively healthy population. Most of their patients were far too well to be in the hospital and wanted their doctors to help them stay that way. Hospital-based training left these doctors singularly unprepared for that task. As a result, specialty doctors, like the old G.P.'s, got the training they really needed on the job.
 The author of that paper, Kerr White, argued for a new ''specialty'' in medicine: one that specifically prepared doctors to take care of patients before they got sick enough to need hospitalization. Suddenly, the generalist physician was redefined from the doctor who had no specialty training to one who was specially educated to care for the whole patient; a doctor who specialized in the breadth of medical care rather than the deep knowledge of a single disease or organ system. 
 Family practice was the first of these generalist specialties. Created in 1969, family practice physicians were trained to deal with the broad scope of medical problems faced by the old G.P.: everything from childbirth to surgery, from mumps to hypertension. In 1973, Harvard took the lead and created the first internal-medicine residency dedicated to primary care. The idea spread rapidly, and by 1990 there were dozens of primary care residency programs. Yale was a relative latecomer: its program started in the late 80's.
 By the time I applied for residency training in 1996, primary care was hot. More than half of all doctors graduating from medical school that year entered a primary care residency: either family practice, pediatrics or internal medicine. The enthusiasm was fueled by three decades of research showing that primary care doctors delivered care that was, in many ways, better than that provided by specialists. A widely touted 1996 report issued by the Institute of Medicine described primary care as the future of sound medical care. ''Primary care improves the quality and efficiency of care and expands access to appropriate services,'' the authors summarized. ''It also forms an important bridge between personal health care and public health, to the advantage of both.''
 The report cited research showing that people treated by primary care physicians spent less time in the hospital, had fewer visits to the E.R. and had fewer procedures and tests. Yet they were healthier and happier with their care than those without these doctors. ''Big doctoring,'' it turns out, was also good doctoring, and now we had the data to prove it. The success of primary care moved the generalists, who had long played second fiddle to the specialists, to center stage. There was even talk of a National Primary Care Day to encourage medical students to go into this specialty in order to meet the expected demand. And then, just as quickly as it began, it all came apart. The trend peaked the next year, teetered and then crashed. 
 The very quality of primary care that made it so attractive is what led to its downfall. Legislators, insurance companies, even physicians themselves began to look for ways to harness the expertise of primary care doctors to expand care and limit cost. But no one seemed to recognize that the basis for these economies was the bond between patient and doctor. And without that trust, the economies of primary care were lost.
The initial and most serious blow came when H.M.O.'s persuaded primary care doctors that they should take on the role of gatekeeper. Research indicated that care provided by primary care physicians was more cost-effective than that delivered by specialists. From the insurance companies' perspective, if these doctors were already curtailing costs by getting rid of unnecessary referrals and testing, then providing them with incentives to cut costs would make the savings even greater. What could be better?
 The appeal of this system for doctors was more complicated, said Dr. Steve Schroeder, a self-proclaimed card-carrying generalist and the former head of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. It flattered primary care physicians by placing them right where they felt they should be: deciding the best, most cost-effective options for their patients. And directing them to a specialist, if need be. That was the theory. 
 The generalist, formerly a second-class citizen in a world that valued specialists, would finally get the respect he deserved. Money, too, was part of it. Insurance companies promised to address the inequities built into their payment structure. Medical insurance had been developed to pay for the huge expenses of modern surgery. Office visits were an afterthought. In this system, simply performing procedures was much more highly paid than figuring out whether, or which, procedures were needed. The promise that this would be redressed made this new system very appealing to generalists.
 The gatekeeper idea was presented to doctors in a 1985 paper published in The Annals of Internal Medicine. The author of that paper, John Eisenberg, an internist at the University of Pennsylvania, was an early supporter. ''The gatekeeper approach,'' he wrote, ''sanctifies the internist's role as primary care physician and captain of the patient's ship.'' He also recognized its potential flaws and pointed out that there was no evidence that this type of system would actually work. One study of the gatekeeper system, published in the late 70's, did show a reduction in hospital days and specialist referrals in one plan. But not long after that study was published, hospital days and referrals rebounded, and two years later the plan went out of business. Another study showed that although a gatekeeper plan did cut costs, the physicians were uncomfortable with their role at the turnstile. 
 Moreover, many of the tools necessary for doctors to make cost-effective medical decisions weren't available. While many therapies available to doctors were supported by evidence of their effectiveness, there was very little to help doctors decide which was more effective, much less the more cost-effective. Without this data, how could a doctor be expected to routinely provide the most cost-effective treatment? 
 The gatekeeper system had worked well in England and Canada, where specialists were in short supply; primary care physicians were essential to move you up the line when it was necessary. But here, where specialists are plentiful, the gatekeeper kept people away from otherwise available specialists. It was a job despised by doctors and loathed by patients.
 Gatekeeping, and the financial incentives that came with it, made patients worry that their doctors weren't acting in their best interests. Doctors worried, too. This possible conflict of interest gnawed at the connection between doctor and patient. And in doing that, it erased much of the value of primary care medicine. Moments of trust, like mine with Dr. James under my childhood bed, are impossible if patient and doctor are worried about the costs of such care. If there is no physician whom you trust, why not go directly to a specialist or an E.R.?
 The money incentive changes everything. I have never worked under a gatekeeper system, yet I am frequently in the position of talking patients out of care they may want but won't help them and may even harm them. Recently I saw a patient who suffers from chronic low-back pain because of her mild scoliosis. The pain eases when she is active and worsens when weather or circumstances limit her activity. Years ago she had a small fatty tumor removed from her back. She said that its removal alleviated her pain. At our last appointment she complained about her back pain and asked for a referral to the surgeon to have another operation. The exam showed that she had no evidence of a recurrence of her benign tumor, and her back pain, even by her own assessment, was no different than usual. I felt that her surgery's apparent efficacy was probably coincidental. But only after a careful history and thorough exam could I convince her that stretching and exercise were more likely to treat the pain than surgery. If she thought that I had a stake in denying her care, I'm not sure I could have kept her off the operating table.
 And the promise of pay equity has never panned out, either. Reimbursement to primary care doctors has not even kept up with inflation. Doctors, in response to lower revenue and higher costs, have tried to maintain incomes by seeing more patients. Squeezing more patients in made doctors less able to develop the relationships that were a chief reward of primary care medicine. From a patient's point of view, this simply made getting an appointment more difficult, and when you finally saw the doctor, he seemed tired, distracted, hurried.
 Technology may rescue primary care doctors as they struggle to be efficient enough to spend the time they need with their patients. What's more, the machinery of the gatekeeping system has been put in check in recent years, first with laws and court decisions granting patients the right to a second opinion and then by the pressure of consumer choice. Will this be enough to restore the trust between a patient and his doctor? Or have physicians become so overwhelmed by deterioration of trust and the circumstance of practicing that they've lost sight of the values that drew them to medicine? These questions remain to be answered. 
 Some doctors and other critics say that primary care is just a remnant of an earlier time in medicine and that we are simply witnessing the end of a type of doctoring, like bloodletting or cupping, whose time is over. Maybe. But there is some evidence that this is not the case. In this country, people are willing to pay for what they really want, if they have the means, and a recent trend suggests that what people really want is my old Dr. James. Patients can now pay an annual fee -- anywhere from $1,000 to $10,000 -- and in return get a doctor who can see them when they need to be seen. A doctor who knows them and whom they trust. Sound familiar? It's Marcus Welby repackaged as ''luxury primary care.''
 This week I'll be seeing my own roster of patients, none of whom would be able to afford the expensive version of primary care, and as long as I, and others in my line of doctoring, are able to work, they won't have to. But what happens after that? If we don't work to balance the benefits of the primary care system with those of the specialist system, if we don't figure out how to incorporate ''big doctoring'' into the system, then all we have done is postponed the real restructuring for another generation. ''If we didn't already have primary care medicine,'' Allan Goroll said, ''we'd just have to invent it. It's the way we want to be cared for.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Yale's program in primary care doctoring, like others in the United States, is struggling to attract the most talented med-school graduates. (Photomontage by Geof Kern)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); ETHICS (69%) Medicine and Health; Doctors; Finances; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Ethics; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (50%)

PERSON: Lisa (Dr) Sanders

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



405 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 9; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Is It the Wrong Time For Inflation Bonds?

BYLINE: By ILANA POLYAK

 BODY:
INFLATION is the bugaboo of bond investors. Each time it climbs, it chips away at the purchasing power of a bond's fixed payout. And last week, there were signs that consumer prices might indeed be heading up. So it is not surprising that investors have been scooping up Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, as if they were going out of style. 
 But TIPS may be a victim of their own success. As their popularity has grown, their prices have soared -- to the point that ordinary Treasury bonds may be a better alternative, some analysts say. ''TIPS are a worthwhile addition to a portfolio at a certain price,'' said James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, a newsletter that covers bonds. ''At the current price, TIPS offer a meager real return.'' 
 The bonds' appeal resides in one significant feature. Unlike regular bonds, TIPS have interest rates with two effective components: one fixed, the other tied to inflation, as measured twice a year by the Consumer Price Index. If inflation rises -- as it did in March, with an unexpectedly big price jump of 0.5 percent -- so, eventually, does the bond's yield and principal. But if inflation declines, then the yield and principal value of the bond also falls, though an investor will recoup no less than the par principal amount at maturity.
 ''TIPS protect you against a bear market driven by inflation,'' said David Rolley, co-head of the global fixed income department at Loomis, Sayles & Company in Boston.
 TIPS trade like other Treasury bonds, typically in blocks of $1,000. In addition, the Treasury issues I-bonds -- savings bonds that come with a fixed interest rate plus a variable, inflation-adjusted component. Like TIPS, I-bonds can be bought directly from the Treasury's Web site, www.publicdebt.treas.gov, in denominations as small as $25.
 Since TIPS were introduced in 1997, they have provided strong returns. For the last three years, a typical TIPS mutual fund has increased 9.5 percent a year, on average, according to Lipper Inc., which tracks mutual funds.
 Bob Calhoun, manager of the $4.5 billion Evergreen Core Bond fund, said that ''in the late 1990's and early 2000's, when the U.S. TIPS market was in its infancy, frankly, you couldn't find a buyer for it.'' But now that real interest rates for ordinary bonds -- that is, bond yields minus inflation -- are just 1 percent to 2 percent, he said, ''everybody loves TIPS.'' 
 Although Mr. Calhoun and Mr. Rolley are generally fans of these bonds, they have soured on them at the current prices and do not hold them in their portfolios. 
 The real yield of a 10-year TIPS note is 1.82 percent, versus the 4.34 percent yield of an ordinary 10-year Treasury note. That spread of 2.52 percentage points implies that inflation will average 2.52 percent a year for the next decade. But even with the March increase in the price index, inflation is running at just 1.7 percent annually, so investors are paying handsomely for inflation protection.
 Still, demand has grown. Seven TIPS mutual funds started in 2003, bringing the total to 20, according to Lipper. ''Currently, there is very much a hysterical mood that inflation is going to rear its ugly head,'' said Steve Bohlin, manager of the $380 million Thornburg Limited Term Income fund. Mr. Bohlin says he expects inflation to remain fairly low for the next year, citing a slow rate of job creation in the United States, China's continued production of cheap goods and tame consumer spending.
 Thomas H. Atteberry, assistant manager of the $1.5 billion FPA New Income fund, also finds it curious that many investors are chasing inflation protection when inflation is low. This is not the ideal environment for TIPS to perform well, he said. 
 ''The securities benefit from inflation rising,'' he said. ''But as we talk about less inflation, investors are buying more protection against it.''
 Mr. Rolley noted that the Treasury is increasing sales of the bonds. ''TIPS are the Treasury's way of sending a signal that it's not worried about inflation, long term, because if inflation did go up,'' he said, ''TIPS would be an expensive way to fund it.'' 
 Another risk is associated with these bonds: the possibility that the Consumer Price Index may be adjusted downward, so that the already low yields of TIPS would fall even more. ''You wouldn't get the same inflation compensation as you did before,'' noted Mark Zandi, chief economist of Economy.com.
 There is increasing pressure on the Bureau of Labor Statistics to change the way it computes the price index. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, testified before Congress in February that he thought the index overstated inflation and should be revised to better reflect consumer behavior. If the price of beef rises, for example, consumers are likely to eat more chicken, restraining their out-of-pocket costs. If the Bureau of Labor Statistics took such factors into account, the government could have saved $200 billion on payments adjusted for inflation, Mr. Greenspan said. 
 Spending on programs like Social Security, of course, could also fall.
 ''The man who issued me the bonds also calculates the index,'' Mr. Atteberry said, referring to the government. ''There's reason for me to be suspicious.''
 In addition, the Bureau of Economic Analysis is studying whether increases in medical costs should not be logged as inflation if they are scientific advances. Under this reasoning, a medical procedure that formerly cost $500 might not be considered more expensive at $1,000 if a new and better technique was used.
 Mr. Atteberry said the Consumer Price Index already understates inflation. Medical costs make up 5.4 percent of the index but 11.9 percent of the gross domestic product, he said. And because medical inflation has been in the double digits for the last few years, he said, the price index has not fully captured inflation. 
 Similarly, when it comes to housing, the index does not look at home prices, but at a calculation called ''owner's equivalent rent'' -- what an owner could charge to rent out his house. Yet, over the last decade, because of low interest rates, the home ownership rate in the United States has grown to 68 percent from 63 percent while the rental market has shrunk. Home prices have grown much faster than rental prices, so owner's equivalent rent does not capture the true price of buying a home, said Mr. Grant, the newsletter editor.
 TO hedge his portfolio against inflation, Mr. Calhoun, of the Evergreen Core fund, has looked more at debt issued by other countries. He says he thinks the dollar will continue to slide, causing inflation to rise. 
 Mr. Atteberry suggests that investors may need to move outside the bond market to really hedge against inflation -- an option not available to the New Income fund, which is limited to cash and fixed-income securities. If inflation picks up, he said, real estate and commodities like metals, oil and wood are likely to rise faster than inflation-protected bonds.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, says inflation bonds can be a worthwhile investment, when the price is right. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)Chart: ''QUICK READ''WHAT THEY ARETIPS, short for Treasury inflation-protected securities, are bonds whose yield and value rise and fall with the Consumer Price Index.PROFully backed by the government, they offer long-term protection against inflation.CONAt current prices, they may be overvalued.WHERE TO BUY THEMThrough brokers or directly from the Treasury at www.publicdebt.treas.gov.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%) Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (63%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%)

PERSON: Ilana Polyak

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004



406 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9; In the Region/Westchester

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: New Houses to Be Friendlier to Long Island Sound

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE 

 BODY:
''WHEN it comes to our waterfront, we're vigilant in the extreme these days,'' said Craig King, this city's development commissioner, referring to construction of some of the first new homes on the Long Island Sound here in many years.
 Following an environmental approach developed along the Chesapeake Bay shoreline in Maryland, New Rochelle has required the builder of a 15-home project called Riviera Shores to adopt practices intended to minimize the impact of runoff from roads and lawns on the fragile ecosystem of the Sound. 
 ''Because the shoreline is the city's most valuable asset, we're setting the bar for other projects to come,'' Mr. King said. With buildable land at a premium in the southern part of the county, and development pressures particularly intense along shorelines, the commissioner said, Riviera Shores is being watched closely by city planners and other developers. 
 The new gated community is set on eight acres of waterfront property, along a neck of land jutting out into the Sound. That section of the city, officially known as Davenport Neck, is now home to a number of marinas and beach clubs, some of them housed in large summer estates dating to the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
 ''There's a possibility that over time, especially with development pressures being what they are these days, the clubs and marinas will morph into other uses,'' Mr. King said. ''That's why what happens with this first development is critical.''
 Riviera Shores is being developed by Robert C. Young, the president of the nine-year-old Young Companies, which has built several other residential projects in the city, They include Knickerbocker Lofts, rental units in a converted printing factory in the city's downtown.
 The shoreline property, where the new shingle-style houses on lots of about a third of an acre start at $1.8 million and go up to more than $3 million, was once the site of the Riviera Beach Club, said Fraydun Manocherian, whose family bought the property in the 1990's. Now a partner of Mr. Young, Mr. Manocherian said he remembered visiting the beach club and its cabanas along the waterfront, and dining and dancing at the mansion, when he was a young man. The club closed in the mid-1980's after a fire gutted the main building. The land was vacant, except for a caretaker's cottage, until Young Companies and Mr. Manocherian decided to develop it three years ago.
 As part of the proposal to City Hall, the Young Companies agreed to reconstruct a stone seawall on the beach part of the property, which is located in a cove of Davenport Neck. ''That bulkhead should protect the land from storms for at least 100 years,'' Mr. Manocherian said. 
 TO mitigate the effects of storm water runoff from the development to the Long Island Sound, the developers hired Earl Goven, a landscape designer who is a principal with Blades & Goven in Shelton, Conn. The company has replanted tidal wetland vegetation, like marsh grasses, throughout the project, and it has directed drainage to swales that contain a mix of sand and topsoil.
 Mr. Goven said that plantings like marsh grasses and black-eyed Susans had been used for this project because they maintained their appearance throughout the growing season and took up the salt, excess lawn fertilizer and other potential pollutants to the Sound. After the runoff percolates through the swales, it flows through a perforated pipe and is directed downstream.
 Riviera Shores is one of the first places in Westchester where the principles of the environmentally friendly system, known as Low Impact Development, are being used, the landscape designer said. Originally developed by Prince Georges County in Maryland, the principles have also been used in the Puget Sound area in the Northwest.
 ''Because so many water bodies in urban areas are becoming polluted with road sand, salt and other elements, environmentalists came up with a method of treating runoff that mimicked what might be found in nature,'' Mr. Goven said. 
 The idea of recreating natural or predevelopment conditions to minimize disturbance of the natural habitat, he said, began in the 1980's, when environmentalists constructed biodetention ponds, which served similar functions.
 For the four-bedroom beachfront homes, each 5,000 square feet or more, the Young Companies hired the Sullivan Architectural Group in Norwalk. Ray Sullivan, the architectural firm's president, said he chose the shingle style because historically that was what was built along the New England coastline. Typically, they are free-flowing styles with multiple roof and wall lines, and much less rigid than the typical rectangular colonial, he said.
 The term shingle style, which is sometimes referred to as the seaside style, is basically the Queen Anne style wrapped in shingles. In the 1880's, it was used in the Boston area, later becoming the preferred look for seaside estates and resorts.
 Shingle style borrows wide porches, shingled surfaces and asymmetrical forms from the Queen Anne style, although architects have opened up the usual interior spaces found in Queen Anne homes with larger rooms and plenty of windows, Mr. Sullivan said. Usually shingle-style houses are two or three stories tall, with wide porches and the large rooms inside arranged around an open great hall, dominated by a grand staircase.
 At Riviera Shores, none of the 15 cedar-shake houses is the same, although the overall use of shingle style ties them together, said Mr. Young, a former pilot with T.W.A. who returned to his hometown a decade ago to become a developer.
 Typical of the other houses, the model at Riviera Shores has a sprawling two-story entrance hall surrounded by a study, dining room and living room. The rear of the house on the first floor includes the kitchen, a butler's pantry, maid's room and family room. Upstairs are four bedrooms, and there is a bonus room over the two-car garage. The architect said he designed the houses for families with children at home. But empty nesters who own homes elsewhere might also be drawn to a gated community, because it leaves them free to travel without worrying about someone gaining entry to the community without proper access.
 The houses are arranged alongside a central road leading down to the water, with a median strip containing the planted swales for drainage. All of the homes have views of the Sound, with those closest to the water selling for the highest prices.
 The amenities package includes what Mr. Sullivan called ''must-haves for home buyers in the luxury category.'' They include an impressive front entryway, master-bedroom suites with sitting rooms and large dressing rooms, large light-filled bathrooms and separate whirlpool baths. The homes also include professional-style kitchens with cherrywood cabinets and a high-quality trim package.
 At the waterfront itself, next to the city's Davenport Park, Mr. Young has devoted two acres of land to private recreation. In addition to rebuilding the seawall, the developer has built a wrought-iron stairway and overlook, with plantings and a beach area below. Although the houses are being sold as single-family units, homeowners will pay a monthly fee of about $380 to cover maintenance of the beach and center island strip and snow removal. The first new owners will be moving in in the summer.
 At City Hall, Mr. King, the development commissioner, said the lessons learned during the approval process for Riviera Shores were being applied to the next development planned for New Rochelle's coast -- a 12-acre, mixed-used residential and commercial project in a cove on the eastern shoreline of Davenport Neck. The city will be seeking a developer for that project.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert C. Young is developing Riviera Shores along Long Island Sound, with prices starting at $1.8 million. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITIES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); BEACHES (76%) 

PERSON: Elsa Brenner; robert c young

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) Long Island Sound; New Rochelle (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



407 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-18-04: ESSAY

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Security Is a Human Right, Too

BYLINE: By William F. Schulz. 
William F. Schulz is executive director of Amnesty International U.S.A. and the author of ''Tainted Legacy: 9/11 and the Ruin of Human Rights.''

 BODY:
When I was a sophomore in high school, I became acquainted with a religious group that called itself Moral Rearmament. Its adherents were required to practice four virtues without compromise: absolute honesty, absolute purity, absolute unselfishness and absolute love. To a 14-year-old, this formula seemed eminently sensible, and I decided that I would become a disciple. And for a few days I was.
 For those few days, I tried never to lie. I tried to vanquish every impure thought from my head. I tried to be generous to a fault and to bestow upon all of God's creatures my beatific love. But in short order I saw that these imperatives might conflict. When, for example, a much-cherished relative who was notorious for her bad breath asked me to give her a big kiss on the lips, which standard was I to follow -- that of absolute honesty or absolute love? 
 At a relatively early age, I learned that if you try to pursue two or more virtues at the same time, you may need to compromise one of them or the other. 
 As the executive director of Amnesty International U.S.A., I often think of this experience when I listen to government officials and some human rights advocates debate how to balance security and liberty. Too often, both sides talk as if only one of these virtues really matters.
 Since Sept. 11, 2001, my own organization and many other human rights and civil liberties groups have been outspoken -- and rightly so -- in our condemnation of human rights violations committed in the war on terror. We have chastised one government after another for using terrorism as an excuse to muzzle peaceful dissent. We have criticized the United States for its arbitrary roundup of Arab and Muslim residents, for the incommunicado detention of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay in defiance of the Geneva Convention and for many other activities.
 The human rights community has repeatedly pointed out that it is difficult to conduct a war in defense of the rule of law when you are shredding that rule yourself, and it is impossible to convince Muslims around the world that the war on terror is not a war on Islam if Muslims are the pre-eminent targets of discrimination. 
 But what about the protection of personal security? How well have we done in holding the feet of terrorists and their supporters to the fire for their human rights violations? In this respect, the record of human rights organizations is far more mixed. For while we were quick to condemn the 9/11 attacks, very few of us have taken concrete steps since then to help bring Al Qaeda and its minions to account. 
 This lacuna is surprising inasmuch as being free from the threat of terrorism is not just a nice idea; it is our right as human beings. Indeed, Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides that ''everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person'' -- rights that terrorists surely vitiate when they injure or kill civilians. It is not enough, therefore, to champion Article 9's guarantee that ''no one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest [or] detention'' without wrestling with the question of how such rights square with those articulated in Article 3. But this is a struggle we in the human rights world have generally shied away from joining.
 Part of the reason for our reticence to take on Al Qaeda is practical. Unlike the Tamil Tigers of Sri Lanka or the Shining Path of Peru or the Palestinian suicide bombers, all of which major human rights organizations have reported on frequently and censured repeatedly, Al Qaeda is hard to find. It operates in the shadows. It is not associated with just one country or region. And if the premier intelligence agencies in the world cannot unravel all its mysteries, human rights groups can hardly be expected to do a better job. 
 Moreover, the traditional techniques of the human rights movement are unlikely to work with Al Qaeda. One can hardly imagine Osama bin Laden opening thousands of letters entreating him to desist from violence or scanning a Congressional resolution calling for his capture and proclaiming, ''By Jove, they're right!''
 But there is more to it than that. The international community has not been able to reach agreement on a common definition of ''terrorism.'' (One survey discovered 109 different ones.) Among other reasons, it's said that ''one person's freedom fighter is another person's terrorist'' or that governments have illicitly killed far more people over the years than terrorists ever will.
 Neither observation is without merit. At one time or another, the abolitionist hero John Brown and the Nobel Peace Prize winners Menachem Begin and Nelson Mandela were all considered ''terrorists.'' In some countries, the word has become almost synonymous with ''political opponent.'' The Chinese, for example, consider peaceful Tibetan Buddhists vicious terrorists; Robert Mugabe regards the democratic opposition in Zimbabwe in a similar vein. 
 But the fact that history has rehabilitated reputations is no excuse for evading moral judgment today. And the fact that governments have been responsible for massive death and destruction offers no excuse for others' atrocities. The human rights movement should be in the forefront of calling for an international treaty that defines terrorism, outlines appropriate ways to combat it and thereby provides security for all.
 The crux of the problem, however, is that treaties are only as good as the states that enforce them. Already we have seen the United States government cite ''human rights'' as the fallback rationale for a war against Iraq that, no matter how welcome the departure of Saddam Hussein, was undertaken in a fashion that did enormous damage to the unity of the international community -- a unity upon which human rights depend for whatever degree of credibility and power they may claim. All presidents have on occasion treated human rights the way a bad cook uses a spice -- to cover up an otherwise unpalatable policy. What greater mischief might George W. Bush do if given access to ever more pungent seasoning? 
 To succumb to such trepidation, however, is to allow President Bush to set not only his agenda but also our own. If we in the human rights community abhor the targeting of civilians in any context, as we surely do, then we need to act as if we believe it. We need to report as best we can on the funding sources and recruitment tactics of Al Qaeda's network; call to account those governments that allow themselves to become entangled with terrorist cells; name the suppliers of arms to terrorist groups -- suppliers who include established states, not just ''rogue'' ones; mobilize grass-roots opposition to terrorism by addressing root causes like economic deprivation or social discrimination; and offer a clear articulation of the ways in which respect for human rights helps offset the terrorists' appeal. 
 Human rights emerge out of the fact that all people know misery. During the Spanish Civil War, Stephen Spender was a fierce opponent of General Franco and the Fascists. Reflecting on the war some years later, Spender, while retaining his horror at Fascism, looked squarely into the corruption of his own heart: ''When I saw photographs of children murdered by the Fascists,'' he wrote in ''The God That Failed,'' ''I felt furious pity. When the supporters of Franco talked of Red atrocities, I merely felt indignant that people should tell such lies. In the first case I saw corpses; in the second only words. . . . I gradually acquired a certain horror of the way in which my own mind worked. It was clear to me that unless I cared about every murdered child impartially, I did not really care about children being murdered at all.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Alvaro Hernandez/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (87%); AL-QAEDA (86%); WAR ON TERROR (86%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terrorism; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (73%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (82%) Amnesty International; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: William F Schulz

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CUBA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



408 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; Commercial Property/New Jersey

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: Suburbs' Long Approval Process Upsets Developers

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: LIVINGSTON 

 BODY:
GIBBS COLLEGE, a degree-granting arm of what was originally the Katharine Gibbs School for aspiring secretaries, is creating a new campus here out of a former manufacturing plant.
 The college is investing more than $10 million -- its chancellor would not say exactly how much -- to transform the building at the corner of Route 10 and Okner Parkway, giving it a new face and roof, high-tech classrooms with laptop ports, a library, labs, a cafeteria, a student center, administrative offices and secure parking.
 Gibbs College has been sorely cramped for years in five buildings with 56,000 square feet of space in Montclair, where it opened in 1950. 
 It took 19 months to get the Livingston project approved by town planners. The new campus is expected to open next fall, two academic years after the college had hoped. 
 They don't want to complain, say both the college chancellor and the developers behind the project, the Aztec Corporation, although they allow that it was a long and laborious process.
 But some others in the real estate business say it may be time to complain -- not necessarily about Livingston in particular, but about the plodding pace of suburban development approval in general in New Jersey since the McGreevey administration set containment of sprawl and revitalization of cities as top priorities three years ago.
 The ''smart growth'' policies streamlined approvals for urban redevelopment projects, dozens of which are under way in cities like Hoboken, Jersey City, Perth Amboy, Bayonne, Camden and Newark, creating new commercial and retail properties and whole new neighborhoods where blight and underuse once was the rule.
 ''How about suburban smart growth?'' asks Mathew B. Jarmel, a principal of Jarmel Kizel Architects & Engineers, which is based here in Livingston, across the street from the Gibbs School site, in offices created from another former factory, a onetime eyeglass-hinge manufacturing plant.
 Suburbia continues to hold powerful attractions for both residential and commercial developers, Mr. Jarmel observed. In a highly built up, intensely sought-after community like Livingston, developers stack up like planes over Fort Lauderdale at spring break, waiting their turn to pitch a project. 
 There is a large stock of older industrial buildings ripe for reuse in certain suburbs, he said. ''The state should consider policies that encourage smart growth wherever it makes sense,'' Mr. Jarmel added. ''Right now, for a developer, it requires a great ability to tolerate tedium in order to get a project approved by most suburban planning boards -- and for some projects, the process is just too time-consuming for it to get done.''
 The architect, who has lived here since he was a toddler, said he had spent enough time to grow old, wizened and crochety waiting before boards in this community and various other New Jersey suburbs. Jarmel Kizel recently developed a day care center next to its offices here, and converted the abandoned West Hospital on Hillside Avenue into a new senior center and municipal office building. The firm is active throughout the Northeast.
 Mr. Jarmel said that one recent evening in a Morris County suburb, which he declined to name, he and the rest of a team assembled by his clients waited all night for their agenda item to come up -- and then got bumped. 
 ''That was a $10,000 night for our clients,'' he said, ''and we never got our turn.''
 He argues that ''adaptive reuse'' of property, as the planners call it, is just as important for older suburbs as for cities -- and that streamlined regulations are warranted for them, too. 
 Susan Bass Levin, who is commissioner of the state Department of Community Affairs and oversees its Office of Smart Growth, is a previous mayor of Cherry Hill. She said she is intimately acquainted with long nights spent at planning meetings and how they wear on people.
 ''I don't think it's fast in cities and slow in suburbs, though,'' she said. ''It differs from town to town. If a town grew too fast, in a haphazard way in the past, then planners want to slow things down and make sure that's not repeated.''
 With older towns that have a particular character but know they need to redevelop, such as Livingston, the commissioner continued, ''It's not surprising they exercise caution.''
 But Mr. Jarmel said developers chafe at the degree of caution. ''There are tons of real estate assets that are not performing in terms of generating tax revenue -- and tremendous opportunities to create new value,'' he said.
 Aztec is creating a 130,000-square-foot building on 16 acres for Gibbs College where the Allison Corporation once turned out auto-related paraphernalia. 
 The Aztec principal David J. Fournier and the project supervisor, David Johnson, said they were thrilled to be in the construction phase after five years of searching for a site, designing a campus, redesigning it as Gibbs grew rapidly, and then wending their way through the approval process.
 ''The end result is good, and protects the interests of the neighbors in that part of town,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''But it did push back the project by several years for Gibbs, which was difficult because the college had outgrown its old facility a long time ago, and has continued to grow since.''
 Gibbs, founded as the Montclair campus of the Katharine Gibbs School, where young ladies were trained as secretaries, was authorized to grant an associate's degree in applied sciences in 1986. It and a sister school in Piscataway are now part of the 75-campus Career Education Corporation system, a multinational provider of private postsecondary education.
 There are nine Gibbs campuses, some of them still called Katharine Gibbs School, including one in Vienna, Va., that currently offers a four-year bachelor of arts degree. The Livingston campus will offer two-year degrees, as did the Montclair campus, according to Chancellor Normal Rankis.
 Jeffrey Freireich, vice chairman and managing partner of the Florham Park-based Kushner Companies, sees development questions from two perspectives, since he does double duty as a citizen member of the Livingston planning board. His firm has just been named to redevelop another Livingston site on East Cedar Street, just south of Northfield Avenue, into 54 high-end town homes, 
 ''Any town that is desirable is going to have developers complaining about getting their proposals heard,'' Mr. Freireich said of cavils developers may have. He himself has complained about frustrations with the suburban approval process compared with urban projects, like the Perth Amboy redevelopment Kushner has under way.
 HOWEVER, he said: ''I wish every town treated me as well as applicants are treated in Livingston. We have a very intelligent board.'' Mr. Freireich did call on state planning authorities to think more deeply about ''balance.''
 ''Urban growth has got to be balanced by suburban growth,'' he said. ''A lot of people want to live in suburban areas -- and to limit growth to only urban areas is not good public policy. If suburban growth is done property, then it is not necessarily going to be sprawl.''
 CB Richard Ellis's vice chairman for the New York metropolitan region, Jeffrey Dunne, made the point that the high desirability of affluent suburbs like Livingston may actually be tied up with the difficulties attached to developing in them.
 ''Anything that creates a supply constraint or difficulty is interesting to investors,'' Mr. Dunne said. ''Capital seeks strong demand characteristics -- in other words, investors know that if demand is high for something, and you have to jump through hoops to develop it, then its value is high. There is not much land left in the Livingston/Short Hills area, and it is a unique place with unique assets.''
 The question developers and planners alike should ask themselves, Mr. Dunne said, is this: Should redevelopment of existing buildings in suburban markets be less difficult than putting up a building on an open piece of land in a more rural area?
 ''That is the question that was asked when establishing smart growth policies favoring urban redevelopment,'' he said. ''It bears asking again now.''
 Mr. Jarmel, the architect and developer, said he was not sure what the solution was, but proposed that state planners start by requiring towns to review their zoning and master plans to make them more flexible and less costly for applicants to navigate.
 ''The process just has to get simpler to become more efficient,'' he said, ''and benefit both the towns and the developers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Fournier of Aztec Corporation, the developer of the new Gibbs College building in Livingston, N.J. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (67%) Real Estate; Colleges and Universities; Area Planning and Renewal; Urban Areas

COMPANY: JARMEL KIZEL ARCHITECTS & ENGINEERS INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: gibbs college

PERSON: Antoinette Martin; James E (Gov) Mcgreevey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Livingston (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



409 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: My Father's Business

BYLINE: By Michael Beschloss. 
Michael Beschloss's most recent book is ''The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945.''

 BODY:

THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF ROOSEVELT
Brokers of Ideas and Power
From FDR to LBJ.
By Michael Janeway.
Illustrated. 284 pp. New York:
Columbia University Press. $27.50.
 IN March 1977, when I was writing my first book (on the relationship between Franklin D. Roosevelt and Joseph Kennedy), I attended a banquet of 800 surviving alumni of Roosevelt's New Deal and their relatives. Staged at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, it was the first such reunion ever held. There were Tommy Corcoran and Ben Cohen, looking like the Sunshine Boys, as well as the president's secretary Grace Tully and the widow of Justice Hugo Black. A grainy newsreel of Roosevelt's first inaugural was screened. In the ballroom's darkness, people cheered and people wept. 
 Despite appearances, the evening had not been planned merely out of nostalgia. Jimmy Carter, the first Democratic president since Lyndon Johnson, had just come to power, but few of the old New Dealers' telephones were ringing. They hoped that Carter would be the guest of honor at this celebration of the Democratic halcyon days of the 1930's, and that surely he would realize how much any Democratic president owed the New Deal veterans. Perhaps Carter and the Georgians on his White House staff would give more respect and attention to these wise elders. But Carter didn't show up. One of the guests, Ernest Cuneo, told me he felt as if he had been slapped in the face. 
 ''The Fall of the House of Roosevelt: Brokers of Ideas and Power From FDR to LBJ'' shows why Carter felt free to ignore an event that his three Democratic predecessors would have considered mandatory. In keeping with its scholarly subtitle, Michael Janeway dutifully navigates the ideological differences that developed among the New Dealers and the ways in which the Democratic Party later moved away from their crowd. But his book is far more interesting and original as a biographical study of what human beings will do to acquire great power and try to hold onto it -- especially after their time has passed. (Full disclosure: Janeway writes in his acknowledgments that during his 10-year writing process I helped him with a research question, although I don't recollect doing so.)
 Presidents attract many historians and biographers, cabinet members a few, but too often neglected is the third layer of a government, people like Roosevelt's young aide Jim Rowe, who may have a much larger historical impact than their minor fame or title might suggest. Janeway's thoughtful and elegantly written book helps to fill this gap in the Roosevelt literature, tracking these New Dealers from their prime in the 1930's and 40's through cycles of optimism and cynicism, friendship and feud, to the shipwreck of their old age. 
 Janeway's volume is almost a kind of ''New Deal Confidential.'' It shows the Corcorans, Abe Fortases, Lyndon Johnsons and William O. Douglases networking as ferociously as the K Street denizens of today's Washington. We hear how New Dealers talked among themselves. Take Corcoran, Roosevelt's chief aide, whose private telephone monologues Janeway reclaims from F.B.I. wiretap transcripts. In one call, he says: ''December is a serious month in the law business, my boy. It's the end of life for which the first is made.'' In another, he tells Fortas that he has ''got the circuit moving'' for him toward a judgeship. Scoffing at Roosevelt's successor, he says that Truman's credo is ''Let me have men about me not too smart.'' From the Democratic convention of 1968, Corcoran writes President Lyndon Johnson, ''If you want me, I'll be doggo at the Lake Shore Drive Hotel.''
 Janeway, the director of the National Arts Journalism Program at Columbia, has a more than abstract interest in the New Deal subculture. His father, the economic commentator Eliot Janeway, is one of the cast of characters, and the heart of this book is Michael's effort to come to terms with the hawk-eyed old man. As Michael writes, Eliot kept three secrets: he had been previously married; he had been a Communist; and he was descended from Lithuanian Jews, having changed his name from Jacobstein. Michael writes that of these three secrets, the one his father ''never -- ever -- discussed'' was the third: ''Close friendships with Jews like Abe Fortas, Jerome Frank and Ed Weisl allowed for their ethnicity, and for problems involving their ability to maneuver politically that occasionally arose from it, but never for any question of his.'' 
 PROHIBITED from a government job because of his Communist past, Eliot got his start by making useful friendships with powerful New Dealers; trafficking in information, strategy, favors and federal appointments; exploiting his inside knowledge for Time-Life; and, later, by publishing lucrative dopester newsletters. He used his connections to escape fighting in World War II, telling his son, ''I figured this was no war to get killed in.'' (Michael writes, ''If not that war, then what war?'') Eliot gets Michael a summer job with Senator Lyndon Johnson and lets him listen in on his telephone conversations with the powerful, but only because the reflected glory makes Eliot feel more powerful himself. Michael feels haunted today by the bitter memory of his father in old age, a man who, ''even in his loneliness and isolation,'' failed ''to try to connect with his grandchildren.''
 What Eliot Janeway excelled at was keeping himself in the limelight and latching onto people who were going places. He did both of these things better and longer than most of the others in this book. During the 1970's and 80's, when men like Fortas and Cohen had faded into the past, the high-flying Janeway was starring in television commercials for Mazda and Glenfiddich Scotch and slipping economic ideas to Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton. (''He calls me up,'' Governor Clinton told Michael in 1991, ''gives me a lot of advice. Some of it's pretty good.'') Outsiders were impressed by the ''Edwardian splendor'' of Eliot's Manhattan town house, his Cadillac and driver. Michael writes that these symbols seemed ''a living monument'' to his ''professional achievement, if you didn't check the underpinnings and back bills.'' His father and mother had ''clawed their way out of what the Depression had done to their families and millions of families like them, and they were never going back.'' 
 Janeway observes that in his sometimes reckless determination to become rich, his father resembled others he knew well. Long after the New Deal, Fortas had to resign from the Supreme Court when his secret cash payments by a foundation were revealed. Corcoran was scarred by charges that he had lobbied the Supreme Court on behalf of his client El Paso Natural Gas. The onetime Truman aide Clark Clifford went down in the flames of a banking scandal. Janeway sardonically notes that these same people had once inveighed against Wall Street's ''unconstrained license and greed'' and the abuse of ''other people's money.'' As he describes it, part of the problem was that they were greedy themselves. More than that, by the end of their lives, ''the Rooseveltians' great chain of dealing had become its own end.'' These once powerful men did not know ''how to leave their active association with power.'' 
 There is no need for us to end the story on such a sour note. Under Franklin Roosevelt, these New Dealers built a lasting monument, showing how government could be made to improve people's lives. But Michael Janeway's book is a reminder that even monument makers can have feet of clay. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (66%); HISTORY (66%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (79%) Michael Beschloss; Michael Janeway

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



410 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 5; NEWS AND ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: A Fuel-Saving Proposal From Your Automaker: Tax the Gas

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
SOME people have wacky ideas, like taxing gasoline more so people drive less.''
 So said a recent television ad from the Bush presidential campaign, set to jaunty music from the silent-movie era, that linked Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, to a 50-cent-a-gallon increase in the gas tax. Actually, Mr. Kerry told a Boston Globe reporter a decade ago that he supported such a measure at the time to help cut the deficit, but he has never introduced it in legislation or voted for it. 
 The Kerry campaign rebutted by pointing out that in Fortune magazine five years ago, N. Gregory Mankiw, a top economic adviser to the president, argued for a 50-cent increase in the gas tax. And Democrats also highlighted Vice President Dick Cheney's support for a 1980's proposal to tax imported oil, a plan that would have meant higher prices at the pump. 
 All right, so both sides flirted with higher gas taxes in the past. Does either back them today?
 Are you kidding? Don't forget that the United States started with a tax rebellion. And with the presidential sweepstakes in full swing and with gas prices up almost 30 cents a gallon this year -- to well over $2 a gallon for regular in California -- a gas tax increase is not going to happen. 
 But in one unlikely place, higher gas taxes are seen as the only nonwacky way to cut oil consumption. That's Detroit, the manufacturing center for the nation's largest oil-consuming product, the automobile. 
 Auto industry executives are accustomed to dealing with much higher fuel prices abroad, and there is evidence that high gas taxes have helped Europeans curb their oil habit. Overall oil consumption has actually fallen in Germany and Britain since the 1970's, while it is up substantially in the United States -- to 20 million barrels a day, from 14.7 million barrels in 1970. (Light-duty cars and trucks drink more than 40 percent of that.) 
 Many factors influence America's growing thirst for crude, including the proliferation of suburbs, whose sprawling landscape forces people to spend more time on the road. But there is also compelling evidence that higher fuel taxes have given Europeans a strong impetus to buy vehicles that are more efficient. 
 In the first week of April, when prices for premium gasoline averaged $1.96 a gallon in the United States, the price of a similar grade in Germany was $5.19, and $5.34 in Britain, according to the federal Energy Information Administration. 
 In interviews at the New York International Auto Show this month, top executives of General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, both of which make and sell a lot of cars in Europe, reiterated their support for high gasoline taxes -- as opposed to stricter fuel economy regulations. 
 ''Anything that can align the individual customer's purchase decisions with society's goals are the way to go,'' Ford's chairman and chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., said, adding that his company has previously supported a 50-cent increase in gas taxes. 
 (The current federal gas tax is 18.4 cents, and state taxes vary. All told, taxes account for about 24 percent of the cost of a gallon of gasoline.) 
 Mr. Ford said the current regulatory system, which compels automakers to make cars and trucks that meet minimum standards for fuel efficiency, ''puts the manufacturer in this tug of war that's unsustainable between what the customer wants and what society says it wants.''
 In other words, most customers want bigger and faster cars -- actually, light-duty trucks like sport utility vehicles -- not efficient ones. 
 ''Every place else we operate,'' Mr. Ford added, ''fuel prices are very high relative to here and customers get used to it, but they get used to it by having a smaller vehicle, a more efficient vehicle.''
 G. Richard Wagoner Jr., the chairman and chief executive of G.M., concurred. 
 ''If you want people to consume something less, the simplest thing to do is price it more dearly,'' Mr. Wagoner said. ''And there is just no track record of sustainable success in the U.S. of doing that, versus Germany, for example, which just regularly says, 'Oh, we have a budget deficit; we're going to raise the fuel taxes by 10 pfennigs, or euros, or whatever,' and do that. And I think that's the rub.''
 Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman, often likens fuel regulations to tackling the nation's problem with obesity by forcing clothing manufacturers to produce smaller sizes. His point is this: As long as gasoline is cheaper than bottled water, fuel economy will not matter to car buyers. G.M. also says fuel regulations unfairly burden domestic automakers because they sell more big trucks. 
 Consumer groups roll their eyes at these arguments because they know that such tax increases are unlikely to win approval in the United States, as both Mr. Ford and Mr. Wagoner acknowledge. And the groups are skeptical that companies that depend on S.U.V.'s and pickups for profit -- and tend to lose money on passenger cars -- really want high gas taxes. 
 ''It's easy to argue for a politically unviable solution in place of actually making progress,'' said David Friedman, senior policy analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental research and advocacy group. ''There's probably room to do both, but at a minimum we have to talk about ways to save consumers money by raising fuel economy standards.''
 Daniel Becker, an expert on global warming for the Sierra Club, said: ''It's like Bush saying: 'Let's go to Mars. Let me offer you the impossible to divert you from the practical.'
 ''We totally support a gas tax,'' Mr. Becker added, ''and we'd be happy to meet with the other people who support a gas tax -- at a phone booth in Grand Central station.''
 Higher fuel prices in Europe, and in nations like Japan, are less burdensome on the poor, because mass transportation is a viable alternative. 
 ''It has the potential to price some people at the lower end of the economic spectrum out of the ability to drive,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''And we don't have a lot of options besides cars.''
 Europe is not relying on taxes alone. The European Union is phasing in its own fuel economy regulations, in the form of requiring automakers to reduce the amount of global-warming emissions that their cars create. 
 In the United States, the fuel-economy question has rarely been more pressing. For starters, the war in Iraq and strained relations with Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern oil producers have raised new doubt about the short-term flow of oil. And there is renewed debate among academics and geologists over when the longer-term supplies will peak. 
 At home, gasoline prices have reached record highs this year, close to $1.80, on average, for a gallon of regular nationwide. (Prices, though, are still far below the peaks of the early 1980's, when gasoline sold for the equivalent of about $3 a gallon today, after adjusting for inflation.) 
 STILL, Mr. Ford said his company was preparing for a future of higher gas prices by pushing technologies like hybrid vehicles. One reason is that demand for oil is expected to accelerate greatly as the economies of China and India become more developed. 
 New vehicles in the United States, meanwhile, are becoming less fuel efficient, on average. In fact, in the 2002 model year, automotive fuel economy reached its lowest point in more than two decades -- a result of the industry's successful lobbying to keep fuel economy regulations largely stagnant as the market has tilted to bigger and faster vehicles, like S.U.V.'s and big pickups. And the largest and most inefficient vehicles, like the Hummer, are not even covered by fuel economy regulations -- paradoxically because they are so big. 
 Senator Kerry has a plan to couple significantly higher fuel economy standards with incentives for consumers to buy efficient vehicles and for the domestic automakers to build them. By contrast, the Bush administration has suggested a variety of proposals aimed at overhauling fuel regulations but has said its plans might not improve overall fuel economy. 
 And higher taxes? 
 ''If Kerry's gas-tax increase were law, the average family would pay $657 more a year,'' the Bush ad said. 
 Not that Senator Kerry is proposing such a plan. At a rally in San Diego in late March, he said, ''I'm going to stand up for students and middle-class families and all those who need relief at the pump.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: With supplies tight and consumption increasing, gasoline prices have kept rising. These were posted in San Francisco this month. (Photo by Getty Images)Chart: ''Pay More, Use Less?''American auto executives say that if the United States is serious about curbing its thirst for oil, it should raise gasoline taxes. The approach has worked in Europe, they say.Graph tracks gasoline prices and taxes (per gallon of retail premium gas, annual average) from 1990-2003 for the following countries:United StatesGermanyFranceItalyBritainGraph tracks oil consumption (change since 1990) for the following countries:United StatesGermanyFranceItalyBritain(Sources by Energy Information Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); FUEL TAX (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); EVIDENCE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%); SUBURBS (60%) Automobiles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Taxation; Fuel Efficiency; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%) Ford Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Danny Hakim; William Clay Jr Ford

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (86%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004



411 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 7; MARKET WEEK

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: White Knuckles On the Timing Of a Rate Rise

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Nervous investors will be hanging on every word when Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, testifies this week. 
 The question is how soon Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues will pull the trigger on interest rates after reports last week that retail sales jumped 1.8 percent in March and that consumer prices rose 0.5 percent. Anxiety over what would be the first Fed rate increase in four years has sent tremors through the Treasury market, pushing the 10-year yield up half a percentage point in April. 
 Mr. Greenspan is likely to be peppered with questions about the Fed's patience on interest rates when he appears on Wednesday before the Joint Economic Committee. And senators on the Banking Committee are also unlikely to be shy about asking interest rate questions on Tuesday, although Mr. Greenspan is scheduled to talk about the health of the banking industry.
 People who interpret Mr. Greenspan for a living are expected to focus on what he says about March's spike in the Consumer Price Index. In the past, Fed officials have paid less attention to a single monthly report than to broader indicators of inflation. That approach could lead Mr. Greenspan to talk down the significance of the new data.
 ''Bond traders will expect Greenspan to avoid making any waves,'' said Louis Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP. ''So if he says something that seems to be a change in heart, that would cause a sell-off.'' Stocks would probably follow.
 William Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman Sachs, is predicting no change of heart. 
 But no matter what Mr. Greenspan does this week, said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig, the new data has sped up the timing of a rate increase. The strong jobs and retail sales numbers confirm the recovery's sustainability and make it difficult for the Fed to delay a rate increase until after the presidential election. A rate increase is likely in June, he said. 
 The words of three other Fed governors who are speaking this week will also be scrutinized for hints of change.
NO SCARY DATA -- The two major economic reports due this week are not usually market movers. Most of the data for calculating the March index of leading economic indicators, due on Monday, is already out. So the actual level of the index should not be far from the consensus forecast, which is an increase of 0.3 percent, according to Bloomberg News, after no change in February. 
 Big moves in durable goods orders are often ignored because the data is so volatile. The forecast for that report, due Friday, is for a 0.7 percent gain, after a 2.5 percent jump in February.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan (Photo by Getty Images)Graph tracks 10-year Treasury yield from January through April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%) United States Economy; Interest Rates

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004



412 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 5771 words

HEADLINE: Now Can We Talk About Health Care?

BYLINE: By Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
Hillary Rodham Clinton is a Democratic senator from New York.

 BODY:
I know what you're thinking. Hillary Clinton and health care? Been there. Didn't do that!
 No, it's not 1994; it's 2004. And believe it or not, we have more problems today than we had back then. Issues like soaring health costs and millions of uninsured have yet to fix themselves. And now we are confronting a new set of challenges associated with the arrival of the information age, the technological revolution and modern life. 
 Think for a moment about recent advances in genetic testing. Knowing you are prone to cancer or heart disease or Lou Gehrig's disease may give you a fighting chance. But just try, with that information in hand, to get health insurance in a system without strong protections against discrimination for pre-existing or genetic conditions. Each vaunted scientific breakthrough brings with it new challenges to our health system. But it's not only medicine that is changing. So, too, are the economy, our personal behaviors and our environment. Unless Americans across the political spectrum come together to change our health care system, that system, already buckling under the pressures of today, will collapse with the problems of tomorrow. 
 Twenty-first-century problems, like genetic mapping, an aging population and globalization, are combining with old problems like skyrocketing costs and skyrocketing numbers of uninsured, to overwhelm the 20th-century system we have inherited.
 The way we finance care is so seriously flawed that if we fail to fix it, we face a fiscal disaster that will not only deny quality health care to the uninsured and underinsured but also undermine the capacity of the system to care for even the well insured. For example, if a hospital's trauma center is closed or so crowded that it cannot take any more patients, your insurance card won't help much if you're the one in the freeway accident. 
 Let's face it -- if we were to start from scratch, none of us, from dyed-in-the-wool liberals to rock-solid conservatives, would fashion the kind of health care system America has inherited. So why should we carry the problems of this system into the future?

21st-Century Problems
At the dawn of the last century, America was coping with the effects of the industrial revolution -- crowded living conditions, dangerous workplaces, inadequate sanitation and infrastructure in cities and pollution and infectious diseases like typhoid fever and cholera that exacted a huge toll on the oldest and youngest in society.
 Since then, a century's worth of advances yielded remarkable results. Antibiotics were developed. Anesthesia was improved. Public health programs like mosquito control and childhood immunizations succeeded in reducing or even eradicating diseases like malaria and polio in this country. Congress passed legislation regulating the quality of food and drugs and assuring that safety and science guided medical developments. Workplace and product-safety standards resulted in fewer deaths and injuries from accidents. Effective campaigns cut tobacco use and alcohol abuse. Employers began providing some workers with health care coverage, primarily for hospitalization costs. And to aid some of those left out, President Lyndon B. Johnson persuaded Congress to establish Medicare and Medicaid to address the poorest, sickest, oldest and highest-risk patients in our society. As a result of these accumulated gains, life expectancy grew from 47 years in 1900 to 77 years for those born in 2000.
 As astounding as those changes were, we are likely to see even more revolutionary changes in the next 100 years. Advances in medicine coincide with advances in computers and communications. The American workplace is changing in response to global pressures. But even positive advances may come with a negative underside. Our affluence contributes to an increasingly sedentary lifestyle that, combined with a diet filled with sugar and fat-rich foods, undermines our ability to fend off chronic diseases like diabetes. And research is proving that the pollutants and contaminants in our environment cause disease and mortality. 
 It is overwhelming just thinking about the problems, never mind dealing with them. But we have to begin applying American ingenuity and resolve or watch the best health care system in the world deteriorate. 

Medical Advances
The pace of scientific development in medicine is so rapid that the next hundred years is likely to be called the Century of the Life Sciences. We have mapped the human genome and seen the birth of the burgeoning field of genomics, offering the opportunity to pinpoint and modify the genes responsible for a whole host of conditions. Scientists are exploring whether nanotechnology can target drugs to diseased tissues or implant sensors to detect disease in its earliest forms. We can look forward to ''designer drugs'' tailored to individual genetic profiles. But the advances we herald carry challenges and costs.
 Think about the potential for inequities in drug research. Today, pharmaceutical and biotech companies have little incentive to research and develop treatments for individuals with rare diseases. Never heard of progeria? That's the point. This fatal syndrome, also called premature-aging disease, affects one in four million newborns a year. It's rare enough that there is no profit in developing a cure. This is known as the ''orphan drug'' problem. Genetic profiles and individualized therapies have the potential to increase the problem of orphaned drugs by further fragmenting the market. Even manufacturers of drugs for conditions like high blood pressure might focus their efforts on people with common genetic profiles. Depending on your genes, you could be out of luck.
 The increasing understanding and use of genomics may also undermine the insurance system. Health insurance, like other insurance, exists to protect against unpredictable, costly events. It is based on risk. As genetic information allows us to predict illness with greater certainty, it threatens to turn the most susceptible patients into the most vulnerable. Many of us will become uninsurable, like the two young sisters with a congenital disease I met in Cleveland. Their father went from insurance company to insurance company trying to get coverage, until one insurance agent looked at him and said, ''We don't insure burning houses.'' 
 Many have worked to get laws on the books to protect people from genetic discrimination, but we have yet to pass legislation that addresses job security and health coverage. The challenges do not stop there. Health insurance will have to change fundamentally to cope with predictable, knowable risks. Will health insurance companies offer coverage tailored to a person's future health prospects? Right now, if you have asthma, or even just allergies, insurers in the individual market can exclude your respiratory system from your health insurance policy. Will all health plans stop offering benefits that relate to genetic diseases? 
 The ability to predict illness may overwhelm more than just the insurance system; it may overwhelm the patient and the provider. Studies in The Journal of the American Medical Association found that nearly 6 out of 10 patients at risk for breast and ovarian cancer declined a genetic test, and a similar fraction of those at risk for colon cancer also declined testing. Why? One reason is probably to avoid higher insurance premiums. But the decision to undergo genetic testing is a complex one that involves many issues. Positive test results often indicate increased risk but no certainty that a disease will occur. Negative results also come without guarantees. The development of genetic profiles and individual therapies will exponentially increase the amount of information a physician is expected to manage. Instead of remembering one or two drugs for any condition, a physician will have to analyze all the different genetic, demographic and behavioral variables to generate optimal treatment for a patient. 
 Medical advances have the potential to overwhelm the health care system top to bottom. At the very least, the pace of technological progress is so rapid that our antiquated health care system is ill equipped to deliver the fruits of that progress. But these advances are not occurring in isolation from other factors affecting both how we finance health care and how much care we need and expect.

Globalization
The globalization of our economy has changed everything from how we work as individuals to what we produce as a nation to how quickly diseases can spread. American companies -- and workers -- compete not only with one another but all over the world. It is called competitive advantage, but it can put American businesses and workers at a disadvantage.
 The United States' closest economic rivals have mandatory national health care systems rather than the voluntary employer-based model we have. Automakers in the United States and Canada pay taxes to help finance public health care. But in the United States, automakers also pay about $1,300 per midsize car produced for private employee health insurance. Automakers in Canada come out ahead, according to recent news reports, even after paying higher taxes. 
 At the same time, American companies are outsourcing jobs to countries where the price of labor does not include health coverage, which costs Americans jobs and puts pressure on employers who continue to cover their employees at home.
 And many new jobs, especially those in the service sector and part-time jobs, don't include comprehensive health benefits. More uninsured and underinsured workers impose major strains on a health system that relies on employer-based insurance. In addition, the failure of government to help contain health costs for employers has led to a fraying of the implicit social contract in which a good job came with affordable coverage. 
 Gone are the days when a young person would start in the mail room and stay with the company until retirement. Employee mobility is now the rule rather than the exception. Those who pay for health care -- insurance companies and employers -- increasingly deal with employees who change jobs every few years. This has the effect of not only increasing the numbers of uninsured but also of decreasing the incentive for employers to underwrite access to preventive care.
 At the same time, war, poverty, environmental degradation and increased world travel for business and pleasure mean greater migration of people across borders. And with people go diseases. The likes of SARS can travel quickly from Hong Kong to Toronto, and news of a strange flu in Asia worries us in New York. Welcome to the world without borders.
 The Pulitzer Prize-winning science writer Laurie Garrett has described it as ''payback for decades of shunning the desperate health needs of the poor world.'' No matter the blame, the need to act now to address issues of global health is no longer just a moral imperative; it is self-interest. 

Lifestyle and Demographic Changes
One hundred years ago, who could have predicted that living longer would be a problem?
 In three decades, the number of Medicare beneficiaries will double. By the year 2050, one in five Americans will be 65 or older. We will have to find a way to finance the growing demand not only for health care but also for long-term care, which is now largely left out of Medicare.
 Our society's affluence is only half of the story. Widening disparities in wealth and in health care too often cleave along ethnic lines. Today, a Hispanic child with asthma is far less likely than a non-Hispanic white child to get needed medication. African-Americans are systematically less likely to get state-of-the-art cardiac care. As our country becomes more and more diverse, these disparities become more obvious and more intolerable.
 Our changing lifestyles also contribute to behavior-induced health problems. We can shop online, order in fast food, drive to our errands. Entertainment -- movies, TV, video games and music -- is one click away. The physical activity required to get through the day has decreased, while the pace and stress of daily life has quickened, affecting mental health. Persistent poverty, risky behaviors like substance abuse and unprotected sex and pollution from cars and power plants all add to the country's health problems. As Judith Stern of the University of California at Davis so aptly put it, genetics may load the gun, but environment pulls the trigger. 

Old Problems Persist
If all we had to do was face these tremendous changes, that would be daunting enough. But many of the systemic problems we have struggled with for decades -- like high costs and the uninsured -- are simply getting worse.
 In 1993, the critics predicted that if the Clinton administration's universal health care coverage plan became law, costs would go through the roof. ''Hospitals will have to close,'' they said, ''Families will lose their choice of doctors. Bureaucrats will deny medically necessary care.''
 They were half-right. All that has happened. They were just wrong about the reason.
 In 1993, there were 37 million uninsured Americans. In the late 90's, the situation improved slightly, largely because of the improved economy and the passage of the Children's Health Insurance Program. But now some 43.6 million Americans are uninsured, and the vast majority of them are in working families.
 While employer-sponsored insurance remains a major source of coverage for workers, it is becoming less accessible and affordable for spouses, dependents and retirees. In 1993, 46 percent of companies with 500 or more employees offered some type of retiree health benefit. That declined to 29 percent in 2001. When you think about the new economy and worker mobility, it's no wonder employers are dropping retiree health benefits. You can only wonder how many yet-to-retire workers are next.
 Even those Americans not among the ranks of the uninsured increasingly find themselves underinsured. In 2003, two-thirds of companies with 200 or more employees dealt with increasing costs by increasing the share that their employees had to pay and dropping coverage for particular services. With rising deductibles and co-pays, even if you have insurance, you may not be able to afford the care you need, and some benefits, like mental health services, may not be covered at all. 
 The problem of the uninsured and underinsured affects everyone. A recent Institute of Medicine study estimates that 18,000 25- to 64-year-old adults die every year as a result of lack of coverage. But even if you are insured, if you have a heart attack, and the ambulance that picks you up has to go three hospitals away because the nearby emergency rooms are full, you will have suffered from our inadequate system of coverage. 
 If, as a nation, we were saving money by denying insurance to some people, you could at least say there's some logic to it -- no matter how cruel. But that's not the case. Despite the lack of universal coverage in our country, we still spend much more than countries that provide health care to all their citizens. We are No. 1 in the world in health care spending. On a per capita basis, health spending in the United States is 50 percent higher than the second-highest-spending country: Switzerland. Our health costs now constitute 14.9 percent of our gross domestic product and are growing at an alarming rate: by 2013, per capita health care spending is projected to increase to 18.4 percent of G.D.P.
 What drives skyrocketing spending? The cost of prescription drugs rose almost twice as fast as spending on all health services, 40 percent in just the last few years. 
 Hospital costs have been rising as well, in large measure because more than one in four health care dollars go to administration. In 1999, that meant $300 billion per year went to pay for administrative bureaucracy: accountants and bookkeepers, who collect bills, negotiate with insurance companies and squeeze every possible reimbursement out of public programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Asthma and other pulmonary disorders linked to pollution contribute significantly to these costs, according to the health economist Ken Thorpe. Diabetes, high blood pressure and mental illness are also among the conditions that keep these costs rising. 
 If we spend so much, even after administrative costs, why does the United States rank behind 47 other countries in life expectancy and 42nd in infant mortality? 
 A lot of the money Americans spend is wasted on care that doesn't improve health. A recent study by Dartmouth researchers argues that close to a third of the $1.6 trillion we now spend on health care goes to care that is duplicative, fails to improve patient health or may even make it worse. A study in Santa Barbara, Calif., found that one out of every five lab tests and X-rays were conducted solely because previous test results were unavailable. A recent study found that for two-thirds of the patients who received a $15,000 surgery to prevent stroke, there was no compelling evidence that the surgery worked.
 In situations in which the benefits of intervention are clear, many patients are not receiving that care. For example, few hospitalized patients at risk for bacterial pneumonia get the vaccine against it during their hospital stays. A recent study in The New England Journal of Medicine by Elizabeth McGlynn found that, overall, Americans are getting the care they should only 55 percent of the time. 
 As a whole, our ailing health care system is plagued with underuse, overuse and misuse. In a fundamental way, we pay far more for less than citizens in other advanced economies get. 

How We Deliver Care
There is no ''one size fits all'' solution to our health care problems, but there are common-sense solutions that call for aggressive, creative and effective strategies as bold in their approach as they are practical in their effect.
 First, the way we deliver health care must change. For too long our model of health care delivery has been based on the provider, the payer, anyone but the patient. Think about the fact that our medical records are still owned by a physician or a hospital, in bits and pieces, with no reasonable way to connect the dots of our conditions and our care over the years.
 If we as individuals are responsible for keeping our own passports, 401(k) and tax files, educational histories and virtually every other document of our lives, then surely we can be responsible for keeping, or at least sharing custody of, our medical records. Studies have shown that when patients have a greater stake in their own care, they make better choices.
 We should adopt the model of a ''personal health record'' controlled by the patient, who could use it not only to access the latest reliable health information on the Internet but also to record weight and blood sugar and to receive daily reminders to take asthma or cholesterol medication. Moreover, our current system revolves around ''cases'' rather than patients. Reimbursements are based on ''episodes of treatment'' rather than on a broader consideration of a patient's well-being. Thus it rewards the treatment of discrete diseases and injuries rather than keeping the patient alive and healthy. While we assure adequate privacy protections, we need care to focus on the patient.
 Our system rewards clinicians for providing more services but not for keeping patients healthier. The structure of the health care system should shift toward rewarding doctors and health plans that treat patients with their long-term health needs in mind and rewarding patients who make sensible decisions about maintaining their own health. 

Harnessing Modernization
As paradoxical as it is that advances in medical technology could potentially break our antiquated system, advances in other technologies may hold the answer to saving it. Using a 20th-century health care system to deal with 21st-century problems is nowhere more true than in the failure to use information technology.
 Ten years ago, the Internet was used primarily by academics and the military. Now it is possible to imagine all of a person's health files stored securely on a computer file -- test results, lab records, X-rays -- accessible from any doctor's office. It is easy to imagine, yet our medical system is not there. 
 The average emergency-room doctor or nurse has minutes to gather information on a patient, from past records and from interviewing the patient or relatives. In the age of P.D.A.'s, why are these professionals forced to rely on a patient's memory? 
 Information technology can also be used to disseminate research. A government study recently documented that it takes 17 years from the time of a new medical discovery to the time clinicians actually incorporate that discovery into their practice at the bedside. Why not 17 seconds?
 Why rely solely on the doctor's brain to store that information? Computers could crunch the variables on a particular patient's medical history, constantly update the algorithms with the latest scientific evidence and put that information at the clinician's fingertips at the point of care.
 Americans may not be getting the care they should 45 percent of the time, but the tools exist to narrow that gap. Research shows that when physicians receive computerized reminders, statistics improve exponentially. Reminders can take the form of an alert in the electronic health record that the hospitalized patient has not had a pneumonia vaccine or as computerized questions to remind a doctor of the conditions that must be fulfilled before surgery is considered appropriate.
 Newt Gingrich and I have disagreed on many issues, including health care, but I agree with some of the proposals he outlines in his book ''Saving Lives and Saving Money,'' which support taking advantage of technological changes to create a more modern and efficient health care system. I have introduced legislation that promotes the use of information technology to update our health care system and organize it around the best interests of patients. Improvements in technology will end the paper chase, limit errors and reduce the number of malpractice suits. 
 I strongly believe that savings from information technology should not just be diffused throughout the system, never to be recaptured, but should be used to make substantial progress toward real universal coverage. By better using technology, we can lower health care costs throughout the system and thereby lower the exorbitant premiums that are placing a financial squeeze on businesses, individuals and the government. At the same time, some of those savings should be used to make substantial progress toward real universal coverage. (I may have just lost Newt Gingrich.)

Taking the Broader View: Public Health And Prevention
While we focus on empowering the individual through technology, we also have to recognize the larger factors that affect our health -- from the environment to public health.
 If asthma and other pulmonary disorders are the main drivers of increased health spending, that argues strongly that we should rethink how social and environmental factors impact our collective health. Consider that over the last century we have extended life expectancy by 30 years but that only 8 of those years can be credited to medical intervention. The rest of our gains stem from the construction of water and sewer systems, draining mosquito-infested swamps and addressing spoilage, quality and nutrition in our food supply. Yet we continue to underinvest in these important systematic measures -- resulting in expensive health consequences like the explosion of asthma among children living in New York City or the harmful levels of lead found among children drinking water from the District of Columbia water system.
 Our neglect of public health also contributes to spiraling health costs. We tend to address health care -- as a nation and as individuals -- after the sickness has taken hold, rather than addressing the cause through public health. Public health programs can help stop preventable disease and control dangerous behaviors. Take obesity, for example. Individuals should understand that they put their lives at risk with unhealthy behavior. But let's face it -- we live in a fast-food nation, and we need to take steps, like restoring physical-education programs in schools, that support the individual's ability to master his or her own health. Studies conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have identified ''Programs That Work,'' which should be financed. It comes down to individual responsibility reinforced by national policy.
 The public health system also needs to be brought up to date. The current public health tools were developed when the major threats to health were infectious diseases like malaria and tuberculosis. But now chronic diseases are the No. 1 killer in our country. We need to be concerned not just about pathogens but also about carcinogens. 
 Over the last three years, I have introduced legislation to increase investment in tracking and correlating environmental and health conditions. I have met with people from Long Island to Fallon, Nev., who want answers about cancer clusters in their communities. The data we have seen about lead and mercury contamination in our food and water suggest that the effects they have on the fetus and children may have contributed to the increasing number of children in special education with attention and learning disorders. We need more research to determine once and for all if increasing pollution in our communities and increasing rates of learning-related disabilities are cause and effect.
 We should also be looking at sprawl -- talking about the way we design our neighborhoods and schools and about our shrinking supply of safe, usable outdoor space -- and how that contributes to asthma, stress and obesity. We should follow the example of the European Union and start testing the chemicals we use every day and not wait until we have a rash of birth defects or cancers on our hands before taking action. And we should look at factors in our society that lead to youth violence, substance abuse, depression and suicide and ultimately require insurance and treatment for mental health.
 After Sept. 11, mental health was a significant factor in the health toll on our nation's first responders. And yet our mental health delivery system is underfinanced and unprepared. 
 Finally, as a society, we need greater emphasis on preventive care, an investment in people and their health that saves us money, because when families can't get preventive care, they often end up in the emergency room -- getting the most expensive care possible. 

Expanding Coverage
All that we have learned in the last decade confirms that our goal should continue to be what every other industrialized nation has achieved -- health care that's always there for every citizen.
 For the first time, this year a nonpartisan group dedicated to improving the nation's health, the Institute of Medicine, recommended that by 2010 everyone in the United States should have health insurance. Such a system would promote better overall health for individuals, families, communities and our nation by providing financial access for everyone to necessary, appropriate and effective health services. 
 It will, as I have been known to say, take the whole village to finance an affordable and accountable health system. Employers and individuals would share in its financing, and individuals would have to assume more responsibility for improving their own health and lifestyles. Private insurers and public programs would work together, playing complementary roles in ensuring that all Americans have the health care they need. Our society is already spending $35 billion a year to treat people who have no health insurance, and our economy loses $65 billion to $130 billion in productivity and other costs. We are already spending what it would cost if we reallocated those resources and required responsibility.
 In the post 9/11 world, there is one more reason for universal coverage. The anthrax and ricin episodes, and the continuing threat posed by biological, chemical and radiological weapons, should make us painfully aware of the shortcomings of our fragmented system of health care. Can you imagine the aftermath of a bioterrorism attack, with thousands of people flooding emergency rooms and bureaucrats demanding proof of insurance coverage from each and every one? Those without coverage might not see a doctor until after they had infected others. 
 Insurance should be about sharing risk and responsibility -- pooling resources and risk to protect ourselves from the devastating cost of illness or injury. It should not be about further dividing us. Competition should reward health plans for quality and cost savings, not for how many bad risks they can exclude -- especially as we enter the genomic age, when all of us could have uninsurable risks written into our genes. 
 So achieving comprehensive health care reform is no simple feat, as I learned a decade ago. None of these ideas mean anything if the political will to ensure that they happen doesn't exist. 
 Some people believe that the only solution to our present cost explosion is to shift the cost and risk onto individuals in what is called ''consumer driven'' health care. Each consumer would have an individual health care account and would monitor his or her own spending. But instead of putting consumers in the driver's seat, it actually leaves consumers at the mercy of a broken market. This system shifts the costs, the risks and the burdens of disease onto the individuals who have the misfortune of being sick. Think about the times you have been sick or injured -- were you able under those circumstances to negotiate for the best price or shop for the best care? And instead of giving individuals, providers and payers incentives for better care, this cost-shifting approach actually causes individuals to delay or skip needed services, resulting in worse health and more expensive health needs later on. 
 Meanwhile, proposals like those for individual health insurance tax credits, without reforms for the individual insurance market, leave individuals in the lurch as well. We know that asthmatics can have their entire respiratory systems excluded from coverage. Individual insurance companies can increase your premium or limit coverage for factors like age, previous medical history or even flat feet. Those in the individual market cannot pool their risk with colleagues or other members of the group. The coverage you can get and the price you pay for it will reflect individual risk, and you simply don't receive many of the benefits of what we consider traditional insurance when people pool risks. So the proposal to give individuals tax credits to buy coverage in the individual market, without any rules of fair play, won't provide much help for Americans who need health care. In the same way, the recent Medicare bill, which seeks to privatize Medicare benefits, long a government guarantee, threatens to leave the ''bad risks'' without any affordable coverage. With the new genetic information at our disposal, that could mean any one of us could one day be denied health insurance. 
 When many of those who opposed the Health Security Act look back, they are still proud of their achievement in blocking our reform plan. The focus of that proposal was to cover everybody by enabling the healthier to pool the ''risk'' with others. The plan was to redirect what we currently pay for uninsured care into expanding health coverage. 
 We could make cosmetic changes to the system we currently have, but that would simply take what is already a Rube Goldberg contraption and make it larger and even more unwieldy. We could go the route many have advocated, putting the burden almost entirely on individuals, thereby creating a veritable nationwide health care casino in which you win or lose should illness strike you or someone in your family. Or we could decide to develop a new social contract for a new century premised on joint responsibility to prevent disease and provide those who need care access to it. This would not let us as individuals off the hook. In fact, joint responsibility demands accountability from patients, employers, payers and society as a whole.
 What will we say about ourselves 10 years from today? If we finally act to reform what we know needs to change, we may take credit in building a health care system that covers everyone and improves the quality of all our lives. But if we continue to dither and disagree, divided by ideology and frozen into inaction by competing special interests, then we will share in the blame for the collapse of health care in America, where rising costs break the back of our economy and leave too many people without the medical attention they need.
 The nexus of globalization, the revolution in medical technology and the seismic pressures imposed by the contradictions in our current health care system will force radical changes whether we choose them or not. We can do nothing, we can take incremental steps -- or we can implement wide-ranging reform. 
 To me, the case for action is clear. And as we work to develop long-term solutions, we can take steps now to help address the immediate problems we face. As Senator John Kerry has proposed, we should cover everyone living in poverty, and all children; allow people to buy into the federal employee health benefits program; and also help employers by reinsuring high-cost claims while assuming more of the costs from hard-pressed state and local governments.
 We can pass real privacy legislation that will ensure that Americans continue to feel secure in the trust they place in others for their most intimate medical information. And we can realize the promise of savings through information technology and disease management by passing quality health legislation now. 
 If we do not fix the problems of the present, we are doomed to live with the consequences in the future. As someone who tried to promote comprehensive health care reform a decade ago and decided to push for incremental changes in the years since, I still believe America needs sensible, wide-ranging reform that leads to quality health care coverage available to all Americans at an affordable cost.
 The present system is unsustainable. The only question is whether we will master the change or it will master us. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The ability of our health care system to meet the needs of each and every American is dissolving as quickly as the pill on the opposite page. (Photograph by Mikako Koyama)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (77%); MALARIA (75%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (75%); GENETIC SCREENING (75%); TROPICAL DISEASES (75%); ANTIBIOTICS (75%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (75%); CANCER (75%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); HEART DISEASE (70%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (70%); GENOMICS (70%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); AGING TRENDS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); TRAUMA CENTERS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (65%); AGING (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (61%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (60%); LEGISLATION (60%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Genetics and Heredity; Aged; Finances; Medicine and Health

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2004



413 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 6; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Two Countries, Two Tales of Jobs

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FOR more than a year, economists have been perplexed by the startling contrast between the nation's economic growth and its weak pace of job creation.
 But an equally puzzling contrast lies to the north: Canada, with many of the same characteristics as this country, has added nearly one million jobs since 2001, while the United States is down nearly two million.
 Both countries are high-wage nations that face global competition. Both are part of the North American Free Trade Agreement. And though Canada did not suffer a recession in 2001, both economies have expanded by about the same amount since 2000: about 9.6 percent for Canada, versus 9.3 percent for this country. 
 The easy explanation is that productivity in the United States has climbed about twice as fast as that in Canada, in part because American companies spent more on technology. But why did those companies focus so keenly on productivity? Here is a theory: American economic policy leans more heavily toward investment in equipment and capital than in labor, and President Bush may have increased the tilt.
 By any measure, the contrast between the jobs experience of Canada and the United States is striking. If the United States had matched Canada's growth rate in jobs, 5.6 percent from 2000 to 2003, it would have added 9.6 million jobs. 
 Those calculations come from a paper to be published this week by the Center for American Progress, a research group in Washington that acknowledges being ''aggressively liberal.''
 The center blamed President Bush's tax cuts for part of the nation's weak job performance. It noted that Canada's tax package in 2002 focused more on the middle class than President Bush's tax cuts did in 2001, 2002 and 2003.
 The Canadian tax cuts were based primarily on rate reductions for lower-income and middle-income households. The American tax cuts were weighted much more heavily toward the very wealthiest taxpayers and investors. They included rate reductions for people in the top tax brackets. They cut in half the taxes on stock dividends and capital gains and offered new write-offs on equipment bought by businesses. They also called for a gradual elimination of inheritance taxes, a move that primarily benefits wealthy families.
 ''If the experience of these two countries over the past three years is any indication, smaller tax cuts targeted toward middle-income taxpayers is more stimulative than large tax cuts targeted at upper-income taxpayers,'' wrote Scott Lilly, a senior fellow at the center.
 To be sure, the story is more complicated. For one thing, unemployment in Canada remains higher than that in the United States -- 7.4 percent versus 5.7 percent. 
 Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., noted that Canada also benefited from a weak currency in 2001 and 2002, which made its exports to the United States cheaper in American dollars. But Canada's currency has been rising since mid-2002.
 Canada lost 13,000 jobs in January and 21,000 in February, after gains last summer and fall. Compared with its April 2003 level, Canadian employment is still up 1.2 percent.
 The more fundamental difference between jobs in Canada and the United States stems from productivity. Canadian productivity climbed 1 percent a year in the last two years, while American productivity rose about 4.5 percent, at an annual rate, during that same period. That allowed companies to raise production and profit without adding workers. 
 ''The U.S. economy is taking advantage of the higher productivity growth that has been allowed by the very strong investment in technology in the 1990's,'' said Mr. Ferley at the Bank of Montreal.
 By that analysis, the job market in the United States is still affected by the excesses of the technology bubble that burst in 2000. That's a long hangover, but it is plausible, given the other anxieties that corporations faced -- the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the war in Iraq and corporate accounting scandals.
 President Bush took office after the tech bubble popped, though his policies consciously tilted toward investment. Alarmed about a drop in business spending, the administration pushed through a generous ''bonus depreciation'' that let corporations immediately write off one-third of their investment in many kinds of equipment.
 In 2003, Congress expanded that tax break and extended its life through the end of this year. It also passed a major break that tripled the amount of equipment that small businesses could immediately write off as an expense. And cutting taxes on dividends and capital gains provided a lift to the stock market and new incentives for investment.
 NEITHER the administration nor Congress, meanwhile, did much to relieve a big disincentive to hiring: soaring costs for employee health insurance. Health insurance premiums have climbed at double-digit rates in the last few years, raising labor costs although wages have climbed only modestly. 
 For better or worse, Canadians receive health coverage through the government rather than their employers. Canadian health care costs money, too, but it does not affect a company's decision to hire or fire. 
 ''If you look at the tax code changes since 2001 -- dividend tax reductions, the bonus depreciation -- all of the incentives are for accumulating capital,'' said Carl Tannenbaum, chief United States economist at ABN Amro. 
 ''There is not much in there for reducing the cost of labor.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Job Growth Rates''Compound annual growth rates of total employment versus population.1980-1996UNITED STATES: +0.5%CANADA: +0.21997-2003UNITED STATES: -0.1%CANADA: +1.3(Source by Canada Department of Finance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); ESTATE TAX (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); DIVIDENDS (50%) Labor; Taxation; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%) Center for American Progress

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2004



414 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; MediaTalk

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Shifting the Outsourcing Battle to Books From TV

BYLINE: By NAT IVES

 BODY:
Lou Dobbs is expanding his battle against outsourcing into book form, just in time for the peak of the presidential campaign.
 Last week Mr. Dobbs, the anchor and managing editor of ''Lou Dobbs Tonight'' on CNN, signed with Warner Business Books to rush out by August a book tentatively titled, ''Exporting America: Why Corporate Greed Is Shipping American Jobs Overseas.'' (How tentative is the title? So tentative that it was changed Friday afternoon from ''Exporting America: The Betrayal of the American Dream.'') 
 Outsourcing, in which companies contract to have certain work done overseas where wages are lower, has been a dominant theme of Mr. Dobbs's television program for more than a year. 
 ''Writing this book gives me an opportunity to set down in condensed forms my columns, the points we have broadcast, and establish the case for fixing what I think is a terrible wrong,'' Mr. Dobbs said. ''For the first time, corporate America has not been creating jobs.''
 His criticism of corporate America notwithstanding, the book deal for Mr. Dobbs was partly fueled by corporate ties. The publisher is an imprint of Warner Books, which like CNN, is part of Time Warner.
 ''Synergy played a part,'' said Jamie Raab, senior vice president and publisher at Warner Books. ''It was a very fast process.'' The book is due on shelves in roughly four months, Ms. Raab said. An August delivery is crucial to meeting two goals: using election-season attention to the economy to increase sales, and influencing the debate over the outsourcing issue.
 Already some have suggested that Mr. Dobbs's opposition to outsourcing draws its inspiration from ratings, not conviction.
 ''You can't overestimate the array of forces aligned against my opinion on this,'' Mr. Dobbs said. ''But if we wanted to drive ratings, we'd begin covering Kobe Bryant, Michael Jackson, Scott Peterson.''
 Lest there be any doubt, work on the book will be done in the United States.
 ''Obviously the editor and publisher are situated in New York, in the U.S.A.,'' Ms. Raab said. ''It's almost definitely going to be printed in Fairfield, Pa., just outside of Gettysburg.''
 Mr. Dobbs, informed of the likely printer's location, said, ''I am delighted, and would have expected nothing else.''
 NAT IVES


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lou Dobbs, anchor of ''Lou Dobbs Tonight'' on CNN, is converting his series of reports on outsourcing to a book. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RELOCATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); JOB CREATION (71%) Labor; Books and Literature; Relocation of Business; Wages and Salaries; Television

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (54%) Lou Dobbs; Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



415 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: County Where Golf Reigns Is Set to Open New Course

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: NEW CASTLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Westchester County is, in many ways, a golfer's paradise. 
 It has five public golf courses and more than 40 private ones, including diamonds in the rough like Winged Foot, a premier American course, and St. Andrew's, widely considered to be the birthplace of golf in the United States.
 But not every golfer can afford the steep fees at private country clubs. And some give the county-owned courses low marks for their less-than-perfect complexions, close tee times that cause golfer gridlock and rounds that stretch to six hours. Hudson Hills, a new 150-acre county course opening here tomorrow, aims to attract the golfer who falls between the private and public worlds of Westchester golf, with a more manicured, more difficult course operated by an outside management company. 
 But while the new course, with higher greens fees than the other county courses, has generated excitement among golfers, it has also drawn criticism. Some county lawmakers are holding up the course as an example of the elitist priorities of the county government.
 ''It's one thing to support libraries and public education, but golf is not a universal activity,'' said George Oros, a Republican county legislator who represents Cortlandt. ''When you are raising property taxes by double digits, I don't know why you build a luxury golf course.''
 The idea for a golf course was first floated about seven years ago in the administration of County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke, a Republican. But it came to fruition under the current county executive, Andrew J. Spano, a Democrat. Some county lawmakers questioned the handling of the three bond issues, totaling $13.75 million, to pay for the land and the design and development of the course. Any single capital project above $10 million must be approved in a public referendum, but the three separate bond issues bypassed the need for a vote. There were additional outlays, billed as operating expenses, for grass seed and drainage work, exceeding $2 million.
 But Mr. Spano defends the project. To critics who argue that the golf course was over budget, he counters that the earliest cost estimates were unrealistic. And part of the reason for the higher greens fees is that he wants the debt service on the bond issues to be covered entirely by the golfers who use the course. ''It won't impact the taxpayer at all,'' Mr. Spano said. ''If I sold this golf course and every other golf course we have, we would still have an 18 percent tax increase, and then we wouldn't have any more golf.''
 Although Hudson Hills charges $75 for a weekend round of golf (including a golf cart), far more than the $43 fee at the other county courses, its fees are less than those at a popular daily-fee course, Centennial Golf Club in Putnam County. Centennial charges about $125 for a weekend round of golf. 
 Mr. Spano insists that there is a ''tremendous need'' for public golf, despite a drop in play on the five other courses last summer because of unusually heavy rainfall. A 1995 study found that a demand for 400,000 rounds of golf went unmet in Westchester. Officials concede that demand has slackened since then, the result of the weakening economy and the opening of new private courses, but they say there is ample room for another public course. 
 Hudson Hills is well positioned to draw golfers who have been flocking to the upscale daily-fee courses that have popped up in the region in the past decade, county officials say. With the silvery hills of the Hudson Valley framing the fairways, Hudson Hills has many of the amenities of a private club.
 It is the only county course to use bent grass, which is typically found on private courses and is more tolerant of disease and extremely low lawn mower cuts. Its carts are equipped with global-positioning devices so players can determine their distance to the hole and computers for speedy ordering of snacks at the midway point, said Luke Ziminsky, the assistant to the general manager of Hudson Hills. 
 And it is a tough course.
 ''There are a lot of really challenging holes,'' said Joseph A. Stout, commissioner of the Westchester County Department of Parks, Recreation and Conservation. ''You've got to hit straight and long.''
 Tee times at Hudson Hills will be scheduled every 10 minutes, and rangers will nudge golfers to keep their game moving, according to Billy Casper Golf, a management company based in Virginia hired to operate the course, which is a mile from the Taconic Parkway, on Route 134. The total number of rounds per year will be limited to 46,000; the other county courses average 50,000 rounds a year. The cap was put in place to address neighbors' concerns about traffic.
 The land from which Hudson Hills was carved was originally a private golf course. International Business Machines bought the property with the intention of building a research center, but sold it to Westchester County in 1998 after failing to secure the necessary zoning changes. The new course has been completely redesigned. ''It's a gorgeous course,'' Mr. Spano said. ''It's smaller. It's more upscale.''
 Gus Alcoba, a 35-year-old Harrison resident who is a passionate golfer, said he had largely given up on the county courses because of the difficulty of obtaining tee times and the slow pace of play. He is eager, however, to try Hudson Hills, despite the increase in fees.
 ''I don't mind the extra money if it's run properly and the tee times aren't bunched up,'' he said. ''Golf is booming. You have all the young kids who want to play now. So to have another course to choose from is a good thing.''
 But Mr. Oros is not persuaded. ''Why aren't we subsidizing baseball, soccer, chess tournaments -- who knows what else?'' he said. ''When you have lean times, you have to go back to your core function of what government is about. To me, golf is not a public service.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A groundskeeper mowing the fairway on the second hole at Hudson Hills, a public golf course set to open tomorrow in New Castle, N.Y.
 Golf carts outside the clubhouse at Hudson Hills, which will become the sixth public course in golf-rich Westchester County. (Photographs by Suzy Allman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); SCHOOL BONDS (87%); BOND ISSUES (86%); BONDS (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAX INCREASES (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); TAX LAW (72%); BUDGETS (70%); NEW ISSUES (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); APPROVALS (62%); REFERENDUMS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



416 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Among India's Tribes, a Campaign for Hearts and Minds

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: LANJODA, India, April 13 

 BODY:
''Jai Shri Ram'' victory to Lord Ram -- said the barefoot boy, offering the rallying cry of India's Hindu nationalists as he opened the gate to the Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram. 
 Started in a mud house 25 years ago, the ashram today is a solid structure housing poor boys from the indigenous tribes of this central Indian state. They learn Sanskrit prayers, yogic exercises and the Hindu line of thought, their tutelage helping to create foot soldiers for India's Hindu nationalist movement and its political standard-bearer, the Bharatiya Janata Party, or B.J.P. 
 In 20 years, the party has gone from bit player in India's politics to leader of its coalition government, and this group and an affiliated family of organizations known as the Sangh Parivar have played an important role. Much as with the Christian right in the United States, the work of Hindu nationalist groups has been a political project as much as a religious or cultural one. 
 In the past, the party has been accused of straining India's secular fabric through its focus on Hindutva or Hindu-ness, a concept defined in sometimes strident, even fatal opposition to minority Muslims and Christians. 
 But as it seeks re-election in national polls that begin Tuesday, the B.J.P. is playing down its Hindu nationalist identity, seeking to reposition itself as a mainstream option for all Indians. The party is campaigning on development, governance and a booming economy, as it did in December, when it won three of four state elections, including here in Chattisgarh.
 On the ground here, however, the links between the party and its more ardent brothers are unabashed, and the strategy and philosophy of Hindutva active. The tribal belt, which stretches through central and eastern India, provides a window into how the Sangh Parivar has worked as a stealth electoral weapon. 
 In the December elections, the B.J.P. won 77 of 97 seats reserved for the scheduled tribes, as indigenous Indians are officially known, tripling the number won previously. While a number of factors were at work including the party's promise of cows for tribal families, many credit the diligence of groups like the Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram. 
 ''These people did the spade work -- that's why we won,'' said Om Prakash Taori, 38, the head of the local B.J.P. traders' association. 
 Although the ashram describes itself as a social service organization, its full-time workers said they had been instructed to campaign for the B.J.P. 
 ''Whenever we are directed by senior Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram people to help in election canvassing, we do,'' Babu Lal Vaishnav, a full-time worker, said. Before the state elections, he and four other full-time workers had spent 15 days each visiting villages and telling people to vote for the ''kamal'' -- the lotus flower that is the B.J.P.'s symbol.
 Ram Madhav, a spokesman for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, or Association of National Volunteers, the parent Hindu nationalist organization, also attributed the B.J.P.'s success among India's indigenous communities to the long-term work of his and affiliated groups. 
 ''It's kind of a silent work that takes place -- a kind of gradual transformation,'' he said. 
 As Lata Husandi, the newly elected assemblywoman and Bharatiya Janata Party member, who had stopped to visit the ashram, framed it, ''The way they are being educated here, they always think of Hindutva, and they become automatic supporters of the B.J.P.'' 
 ''They are being groomed,'' said Mr. Taori, who was accompanying her. ''When you have 25 to 30 children together, they think in one way, they work in one way.'' 
 The battle for votes here has been intimately connected with the battle for souls, with Christian missionaries used as a foil to unite Hindus. 
 While the proportion of Christians in India -- 2.3 percent of the population of one billion -- has remained relatively steady, the Hindu nationalists see any conversions as a threat. 
 To counter the missionaries, the ashram and other groups have replicated their work. Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram, founded in 1952, now runs 1,530 medical facilities, 180 hostels, 5,776 single-teacher schools, and 11,530 development projects. 
 It has undoubtedly provided social services to people often neglected by government. But during rioting by Hindus in Gujarat state in 2002, tribal people joined in attacks on Muslims for the first time, and critics blamed the ashram's work in urging Hindu nationalism. 
 Hindu nationalists believe, sometimes with good reason, that missionaries prey on the tribals' poverty. ''We are against the exploitation of people's backwardness for religious reasons,'' Ms. Husandi said. But there do not appear to have been large numbers of conversions here, Catholic workers and tribal people said. Rather, the ashram and other groups seem to use the specter of conversion to unite Hindus. 
 The number of reconversions has also been small, but their impact amplified. In the Bastar district, the reconversion drive has been led by Lakhmu Ram Bharati, 65.
 A member of the Batara tribe, he had been doing reconversions for a year, including some on March 5 in nearby Tongkengra village. He had called a meeting of the tribe, and told the Christians: ''We belong to the same group. If you will remain separate, it won't work.'' 
 The Christians had all reconverted, he said, and as an ancillary benefit, he was sure they would vote for ''our party.'' 
 And if they had not reconverted? ''They would have been treated as outcasts,'' he said. 
 Thus Anoop Lal came back to the fold. A 38-year-old farmer, he became a Catholic four years ago after visiting a missionary clinic. No one had pressed him to convert, he said.. 
 But a year or two ago villagers and outsiders began threatening a social boycott if he continued going to church, and said he would not get work. Even the local state assemblyman, Dr. Shubhu Kashyap, a member of the B.J.P., told him he would have problems if he did not ''come back'' to Hinduism. 
 The pressure intensified, Mr. Bharati held his mass meeting, and Mr. Lal and eight or nine others came back. The whole village attended the reconversion, as did the local members of Parliament and the state assembly -- both B.J.P. members -- according to the village priest. They witnessed the washing of the feet, the sprinkling of sacred water from the Ganges, the chanting of mantras, the prayer for Lord Shiva.
 But in Mr. Lal's tiny home, beneath some clothes hanging on the wall, two Christian calendars remained. ''The Word Was Made Flesh and Lived Among Us,'' one read. 
 Was he now a Hindu? A Christian? Even Mr. Lal seemed unsure. Large brown eyes misting, voice choked, he put one hand in the air and one on his heart. ''I still do not know where I am,'' he said. ''God knows.'' 
 As he spoke more, he began to weep. ''They forced me,'' he said, then vowed of the Christianity he had publicly forsaken: ''My God knows -- I will not leave even if I die.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Students spent some free time last week next to a board listing their daily schedule at a school for tribal people run by Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram. (Photo by Amit Bhargava/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); FAMILY (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%) Elections; Politics and Government; Church-State Relations; Islam; Christians and Christianity 

PERSON: Amy Waldman

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) India; India

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



417 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Tabloid King Seeks Makeover From Sassy to Stable

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
David J. Pecker, chief executive of American Media Inc., has been a busy man of late. 
 The company is rolling out nationally a glossy, redesigned version of The Star, retooling its car magazine into a new younger-skewing version for the fall and testing a magazine that features the Latina pop star Thalia. It is also hiring several big-name consultants, including a former chief executive of a media company; a former high-ranking Detroit automotive executive; and the governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, who serves as executive editor and figurehead of two of the company's muscle magazines.
 But one exceedingly important item that was on this year's to-do list remains -- an initial public offering -- and it will not be crossed off the list anytime soon. Instead, Mr. Pecker has given himself a new task to ensure that his company has enough heft and credibility for an offering to materialize: buying another publisher. Unfortunately, his would-be acquisition targets appear to have no willingness to sate Mr. Pecker's desire. 
 Mr. Pecker, whose company is jointly owned by Evercore Partners and the Thomas H. Lee Company, had hoped to use the robust cash flow of American Media's tabloids (like The National Enquirer) and the credibility of the more recently acquired Weider health and fitness magazines to take the company into the stock market. 
 But recent developments have altered those plans. New regulations on the marketing and production of nutritional supplements, a big advertising category for several Weider publications -- on top of an already dreary advertising market -- have cost the company millions of dollars. Newsstand sales of its tabloids, already weak, were hurt even more by the recently settled supermarket strike in California, because of their dependence on those outlets. And the company spent more redesigning The Star than expected while problems in finding a printer delayed the national rollout by two months. 
 The result, a poor third quarter for the 2004 fiscal year, forced the company to amend one of its bank covenants governing the ratio of debt to earnings.
 In the most recent quarter, which ended on Dec. 29 of last year, the company had revenues of $118.3 million and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $31.5 million. The resulting profit margin may be enviable in the media business, but it was the lowest in several quarters for the company, according to a report prepared by Lehman Brothers. Net income fell to just $692,000 for the third quarter, although seasonal trends should allow revenue and income to meet the full-year estimates.
 ''The question now is, where it goes from here, including acquisitions,'' said Andrew Finkelstein, vice president for high-yield research at Lehman Brothers. 
 Mr. Pecker said the initial public offering, which would have brought in the kind of money that would allow the company to buy almost any property it wanted, was merely being deferred. 
 ''Until I can show some additional traction, I won't even be discussing an I.P.O.,'' he said. ''We need to demonstrate success over time and we need one other big acquisition before we can get there. But we will.''
 So Mr. Pecker, even as he works to digest the $350 million acquisition of Weider last year, is back shopping, with eyes on Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing, the German-owned publisher of magazines including Fast Company and Parents, which has suffered significant missteps in the last several years; and Dennis Publishing USA, the British-owned publisher of Maxim, Stuff and Blender. 
 ''I cannot speak to what David's desires are and what he wants to buy,'' said Axel Ganz, president of the international division of Gruner & Jahr, which operates the French and American companies. ''But Gruner & Jahr USA is not for sale. I'd like to buy Time Inc., but that wish does not make it so.''
 Felix Dennis, who owns much of Dennis Publishing, both in Britain and the United States, has said in the past that he would like to sell in three to five years, but that moment has not arrived, according to Stephen Colvin, the chief executive of Dennis Publishing USA. ''We are not selling,'' Mr. Colvin said. 
 The lack of ready deals has not dampened the enthusiasm of Mr. Pecker or his backers.
 ''Our approach is simple,'' said Austin M. Beutner, president of Evercore. ''We need to organically grow the business we have, executing the new Star, Thalia, the auto book, and then continue to capitalize on very good acquisitions like Weider and pass on ones like New York magazine that don't make sense. We have a ton of dry powder.'' 
 Some analysts are not so convinced.
 ''They need to have the kind of cash flow that will help finance another acquisition that will make the I.P.O. attractive,'' said Matthew Wilcox, a bond analyst at KDP Investment Advisers.
 Mr. Beutner said Evercore was in no hurry to cash out of its investment, having just refinanced the company early in 2003 and brought in Thomas H. Lee as a partner. 
 But the company's big bet on The Star will have to start showing dividends soon. After $54 million in investment, the celebrity-infused tabloid is in the midst of its national debut as a glossy magazine. 
 In the last few years, Mr. Pecker has watched as first US Weekly, owned by Wenner Media, then In Touch, owned by Bauer Publishing USA, ate away at his tabloids by re-formatting saucy celebrity news into bright, glossy formats. 
 American Media's three celebrity-focused tabloids -- The National Enquirer, The Star and The Globe -- dropped to 2.6 million in weekly sales in 2003, from 4 million in 1999. 
 ''We created celebrity journalism before any of these other magazines were around,'' Mr. Pecker said. ''We could not just stand by.''
 Mr. Pecker went right at the problem last June by hiring Bonnie Fuller, then the editor of US Weekly, to be editorial director of American Media for $1.5 million in annual salary and a lucrative bonus and stock option package. Ms. Fuller is known for having a hot hand at the newsstand and a free one when it comes to spending. She has already lived up to at least part of her billing at American Media, having spent over $3 million more than was budgeted for the glossier, larger (100 pages from 84 pages) and more costly ($3.29 vs. $2.99) version of The Star. 
 Mr. Pecker said the investment (and the $10 million advertising campaign accompanying it) was worth it.
 ''I think Bonnie is fantastic,'' Mr. Pecker said. ''She cares about one thing and one thing only, which is the quality of the editorial product.''
 He said advertising has more than tripled at The Star, to $350,000 a week. This, along with ad income from the Weider magazines, has helped the company to raise advertising revenues to 29 percent of revenues in fiscal 2004, from 12 percent in 1999.
 The wager on The Star is not the only one on the table. Just last week, the company published the first of three test issues of Thalia, a magazine based on Thalia Sodi, a Latina recording star. Given the implosion of Rosie magazine and the travails of Martha Stewart Living, it would seem to be an odd time to balance an entire brand on a single individual, but Mr. Pecker said that the company's understanding of the nuances of the Latin market (the company publishes Mira, the largest Hispanic newsstand magazine in the United States) makes publishing and distributing Thalia a low-risk venture. 
 Mr. Pecker sat that Ms. Sodi and her husband, Thomas D. Mottola, the former chairman of Sony Music, have sole editorial control over the venture.
 The company will test issues of Happy Home, a decorating magazine aimed at younger women, in the fall. Other existing titles are getting a going-over as well, with The National Enquirer in the midst of an upgrade and Men's Fitness with not one, but two redesigns in the last six months. 
 Previous bright ideas are now in the shop for repairs. Auto World, which was first published as Auto World Weekly in 2000, has been shuttered and will return as MPH (Maximum Performance Horsepower) in the fall.
 Not all of Mr. Pecker's new initiatives have been printed products. In the last year, the company announced that in addition to the governor of California, it had retained Michael A. Browner, the former executive director for media and marketing operations at General Motors, as a media consultant, primarily working with The Star. (''He talks to Bonnie three to five hours a week,'' Mr. Pecker said.) And Thomas S. Rogers, the former chief executive of Primedia, was retained as a consultant on television issues. 
 ''David operates from the gut in an industry dominated by M.B.A.'s,'' said Roger Black, chairman of Danilo Black, a New York content design firm that worked on the now-jettisoned redesign of Men's Fitness. ''He can get away with it because he is a former financial guy. Now, he can be antsy and may not dress up like Time Inc., but hey, this is the magazine industry, not the Yale Club.''
 Mark M. Edmiston, managing director of AdMedia Partners, an investment banking firm, added: ''I would say that he has done all the right things, but the world has not been kind to him. He hired a big, brand-name editor, increased the size of the company with the Weider acquisition, and worked to diversify the revenue base. But the magazine economy has not taken off and that has hurt him at just the wrong time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: David J. Pecker, chief executive of American Media, wants to make an initial public offering, but only after the company makes another big acquisition. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
David Pecker, center, has brought in Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California to be executive editor of two of American Media's magazines. (Photo by Reuters)
Bonnie Fuller, above, is overseeing changes at The Star. A magazine featuring the Latina pop star Thalia Sodi is being tested. (Photo by Reuters)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C5)Chart: ''Less Than Fit''American Media, which publishes tabloids like The National Enquirer and magazines like Men's Fitness, has not been doing as well financially as it had hoped.OPERATING REVENUEGraph tracks American Media's operating revenue since 2003.NET INCOMEGraph tracks American Media's net income since 2003.All figures include Weider acquisition.(Source by Company filings with the S.E.C.)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); TRENDS (77%); RANKINGS (76%); EBITDA (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CASH FLOW (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); NEWSSTANDS (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BANKING LAW (64%) Magazines; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Newspapers; Magazines; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDIA INC (92%); LEE CO (68%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (55%); WEIDER HEALTH & FITNESS INC (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: American Media Inc; Gruner & Jahr; Dennis Publishing; Thalia (Magazine); Star (Magazine); US Weekly (Magazine); In Touch Weekly (Magazine); National Enquirer; Globe (Newspaper)

TICKER: EVR (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238220 PLUMBING, HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING CONTRACTORS (68%); SIC1711 PLUMBING, HEATING, & AIR-CONDITIONING (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (70%) Thalia Sodi; David J Pecker; David Carr

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



418 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Algerian Elections

 BODY:
The lopsided re-election victory of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria recently is, above all, a sign that the Algerians desperately long for an end to more than a decade of civil violence. Since taking office in 1999 in elections largely engineered by the military, Mr. Bouteflika has managed to restore a measure of peace and normalcy, assisted by high prices for the gas and oil that account for most of Algeria's national income. With so much attention focused these days on the Arab world's democratic deficit, it would make good sense for the United States and the European Union to support Mr. Bouteflika and encourage his government to start to promote real democracy. The election was not above reproach, but with 83.5 percent of the votes and a thumbs-up from international monitors, it was clear that a large majority chose Mr. Bouteflika. 
 Algeria's downward slide dates from the decision of the military-backed government to cancel elections in 1992, when it looked as if they would bring in an Islamist regime. The Islamist militants rose up, leading to years of wanton terror that continued until Mr. Bouteflika, who had been foreign minister from 1963 to 1978, was put in charge in 1999 and began seeking peace. The blood has not entirely stopped flowing, but some prominent Islamic leaders supported Mr. Bouteflika in the election.
 He still faces formidable challenges like the discontented Berbers, who are demanding autonomy. Algeria needs to be more receptive to private investment, and would be wise to diversify its oil-dependent economy. Such notions as an independent judiciary and a free press are still deemed somewhat alien in a country with a heavily authoritarian tradition. But with a strong mandate, and those helpfully high oil prices that have filled the coffers, Mr. Bouteflika has a golden opportunity to reform the nation's economy and to ensure that long-promised democracy takes root. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); RELIGION (50%) Editorials; Elections; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) European Union

PERSON: ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (93%) Abdelaziz (Pres) Bouteflika

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%) Algeria; Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



419 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Mugabe Denounces 'Bloodthirsty' Western Critics

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, April 18 

 BODY:
President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe marked the 24th anniversary of the end of white rule on Sunday with a blistering attack before an audience of bused-in supporters on ''bloodthirsty'' Western critics, led by Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and President Bush. 
 Mr. Mugabe's half-hour speech employed a familiar mix of accusations that the white West planned to recolonize Zimbabwe and assertions that the nation's economic and social problems would soon be fixed. ''Zimbabwe will never be a colony again -- never, ever, ever,'' Mr. Mugabe said. ''We will not compromise our principles of freedom and national sovereignty, no matter who gets upset.'' 
 He also said Zimbabwe would never rejoin the Commonwealth, the association of Britain and former colonies that Mr. Mugabe quit last year after its members refused to revoke Zimbabwe's suspension for human rights violations. 
 Nearly 60,000 people in a stadium outside the capital, Harare, heard his address, many of them bused in for the occasion. News services reported that the crowd was considerably larger than those at some previous anniversary speeches. 
 In his speech on Sunday, Mr. Mugabe lashed out at the only rival of his governing ZANU-PF Party -- the Movement for Democratic Change, a polyglot opposition party that includes intellectuals, union workers and some white leaders. 
 The opposition has supported economic sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe by the United States and the European Union, which Mr. Mugabe called two-faced for its disregard of people the party claims to represent. 
 ''Solutions do not come from Blair,'' he said. ''Power to rule the country does not come from Bush. Power comes from the people here.'' 
 He said he could accept political differences with opponents, but, ''We can't be sold like sheep,'' to Western leaders. 
 Top members of the opposition party were invited to Mr. Mugabe's speech. South Africa has sought for months to jumpstart negotiations between the two sides toward a political compromise, but substantive talks have yet to begin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) Freedom and Human Rights; United States International Relations; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Commonwealth of Nations 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TONY BLAIR (79%) Robert (Pres) Mugabe; Tony (Prime Min) Blair; George W (Pres) Bush; Michael Wines

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (67%) ZIMBABWE (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) Zimbabwe; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



420 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Leader Is Reported in Beijing

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Monday, April 19 

 BODY:
The North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, entered China by train on Sunday and arrived in Beijing on Monday for talks on the crisis over his country's nuclear weapons program, South Korean media outlets reported.
 Mr. 
Kim will meet with President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao in the first summit meeting since the new Chinese leaders took office last year, the South Korean YTN cable television network said.
 China has been the host for two rounds of talks with North and South Korea, the United States, Japan and Russia. North Korea is being urged to give up its programs for producing nuclear weapons.
 The reports on Mr. Kim's arrival in the Chinese capital follow a visit to Japan, China and South Korea by Vice President Dick Cheney. Mr. Cheney appealed to the three countries to help speed up efforts to end North Korea's nuclear programs.
 Chinese leaders are likely to dangle the prospect of significant economic help before Mr. Kim, while pressing home the point that it firmly opposes a nuclear-armed North Korea and insists that the problem be resolved peacefully, analysts say.
 Mr. Kim last visited China, North Korea's ally, in May 2001.
 YTN said Mr. Kim had crossed into China late on Sunday in his special train amid heavy secrecy and had traveled overnight to reach Beijing at midday. 
 No mention of the visit was made by North Korea's official news agency, KCNA, or by China's official New China News Agency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRAINS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Atomic Weapons; Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (93%); HU JINTAO (88%); DICK CHENEY (79%); WEN JIABAO (73%) Kim Jong Il; Hu Jintao (Pres); Wen Jiabao (Prime Min); Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) North Korea; South Korea; China; Japan; North Korea; Beijing (China)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



421 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: A Philippine Movie Star Hopes to Land a New Role: President

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: MANILA, April 16 

 BODY:
If politics is theater, surely no playhouse is quite like the Philippines. There she was, Imelda Marcos, who danced with Gov. Ronald Reagan 35 years ago when her husband was president. This week she was onstage at a rally for Fernando Poe Jr., one of this nation's most popular actors, as fireworks exploded overhead.
 What is Mr. Poe, a 64-year-old high school dropout, running for? Why president, of course. 
 ''Only in the Philippines,'' Filipinos often say, with a shrug of resignation about their politics.
 Mr. Poe has a chance of defeating the incumbent, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. She moved up from vice president in 2001 after another actor-turned-president, Joseph Estrada, was forced out of office in the face of allegations that he accepted $11 million in kickbacks from a gambling kingpin.
 Indeed, the charismatic Mr. Poe and the intellectual Mrs. Arroyo are virtually tied, each at 32 percent of the vote, according to the latest poll by Social Weather Stations, a social research institute here. Two other candidates divide most of the rest of the vote. The campaign began in February, with the vote on May 10.
 What explains Mr. Poe's success against Mrs. Arroyo, daughter of a former president? ''He's a nice guy,'' said Ronnie Curacho, a 58-year-old barber, explaining why he would vote for Mr. Poe.
 The poor often determine the outcome of elections in this country, with fraud and violence in strong supporting roles. More than 80 percent of this nation's 82 million people are considered lower class, living barely above or below the poverty line.
 But in this country, in marked contrast to the United States, a high percentage of lower-income people vote, as high as 80 percent. In part it is because the country's 40,000 village leaders make sure they do, often by handing out $10 to $20 as an incentive, said Benito Lim, a professor of Asian Studies and mass communication at the University of the Philippines.
 But the poor also vote ''out of conviction,'' he said, believing the politicians' promises of jobs, health care and school for their children.
 In contrast, Professor Lim said, his students say they cannot be bothered to register to vote because they feel they cannot make a difference, which he finds alarming.
 After so many presidential elections, the Filipino poor have been repeatedly disappointed -- they make up a greater percentage of the population now than they did when the United States gave the Philippines independence in 1946 -- and they do not believe that Mrs. Arroyo has delivered on her promise to raise their standard of living. 
 ''They are disgusted with the educated politicians who promise to change things, who promise to give them jobs, who promise health care, who promise schools for their children, but who fail,'' Professor Lim said.
 Sheila Coronel, director of the Philippine Center for Investigative Journalism, described the vote for Mr. Poe as ''a protest vote against politicians.'' 
 In the movies, Mr. Poe is the superhero, performing miraculous feats for the underdog. The poor, uneducated Filipinos think he can do the same for them, said Professor Lim.
 At the other end of the economic ladder, the Makati Business Club, named for the district of sprawling Manila that is home to the high-rise office buildings, gave what was tantamount to an endorsement of Ms. Arroyo this week. 
 The rich effectively control political power in this country, and use it to protect their riches, while the poor grow poorer and less educated. Mrs. Arroyo's efforts to reform the very corrupt tax department have been blocked by Congress, which is controlled by the elite. Among other things, Congress has refused to pass an increase in the so-called ''sin taxes'' on alcohol and cigarettes.
 Mr. Poe is backed by Eduardo Cojuangco, a business magnate -- C.E.O. of San Miguel beer for one thing -- and Juan Ponce Enrile, who was an architect of the martial law Mr. Marcos imposed in 1972 and kept in place until 1986, during which time Mr. Enrile served as minister of defense and grew fabulously rich. Mr. Enrile, now 80, is running for the Senate and was on the stage with Ms. Marcos, now 74.
 The big money for campaigns comes from Chinese business operators. Their preferred choice for president is Panfilo Lacson, who as police chief under President Estrada adopted a get-tough approach against the kidnapping-for-ransom gangs, most of whose targets were the children of wealthy Chinese businessman.
 But Mr. Lacson is trailing far behind in the polls, and the Chinese have begun hedging their bets, giving money to the Arroyo campaign.
 Remilo Abian, 29, who started college but did not graduate and now works as a driver for a car rental company, said he will vote for Mrs. Arroyo. ''She's corrupt, but that's a problem in all of Southeast Asia,'' he said. 
 Corruption is endemic here, as it is in Indonesia. The Indonesian president, Megawati Sukarnoputri, has been tainted by allegations that her husband has used her office for his personal gain. Similarly, Mrs. Arroyo's husband, Jose Miguel Arroyo, has been publicly accused -- but never official charged -- of a variety of corrupt activities, including skimming off campaign funds into personal bank accounts. 
 Furthermore, Mrs. Arroyo is not wildly popular. She has a reputation of being distant, and a bit too cerebral.
 ''I choose the lesser evil,'' said Jho Villaroya, explaining why she will vote for Mrs. Arroyo. Ms. Villaroya, who works in a travel agency, said she has conducted her own survey among taxi drivers. Most are going to vote for Mr. Poe, she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Poe Jr., 64, campaigning for president in Manila. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); FILM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); BRIBERY (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); ETHICS (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (71%); WEATHER (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); THEATER (58%) Politics and Government; Elections; Public Opinion; Bribery; Ethics; Election Issues

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (90%) Raymond Bonner; Fernando Jr Poe; Gloria Macapagal (Pres) Arroyo; Joseph Estrada

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Philippines

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



422 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 484 words

PERSON: Philip A. Fisher

HEADLINE: Philip A. Fisher, 96, Is Dead; Wrote Key Investment Book

BYLINE: By STUART LAVIETES

 BODY:
Philip A. Fisher, who wrote one of the first investment books to appear on the New York Times best-seller list, ''Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits,'' a 1958 guide to growth-stock investing that the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett has cited as a major influence on his career, died at his home in San Mateo, Calif., on March 11. He was 96.
 His death was reported by his son Kenneth L. Fisher in a column in the current issue of Forbes magazine. 
 Still in print, ''Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits'' outlines Mr. Fisher's buy-and-hold approach to investing and his method for identifying stocks that have a strong potential for long-term growth. In the book's ''15 Points to Look for in a Common Stock,'' he advised readers to invest in innovative companies that are world leaders in their field, have a commitment to research and development and are led by executives of unquestioned quality and integrity.
 He also told readers to limit the number of stocks in their portfolio and to limit turnover even further. ''If the job has been correctly done when a common stock is purchased,'' he wrote, ''the time to sell is almost never.''
 Following his own advice, Mr. Fisher invested in technology companies like Texas Instruments and Motorola for the long haul. He bought Motorola stock in 1955, when the company was still a radio manufacturer, and held its shares until his death.
 Philip Arthur Fisher was born in 1907 in San Francisco. A graduate of Stanford with a bachelor's degree in economics, and a veteran of the Army Air Corps, he started an investment counseling firm, Fisher & Company, in 1932. He retired in 1999 at 91.
 Mr. Fisher's books, which also include ''Paths to Wealth Through Common Stocks''(1960) and ''Conservative Investors Sleep Well''(1975), influenced generations of investors, including Mr. Buffett. 
 ''I sought out Phil Fisher after reading his 'Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits' and 'Paths to Wealth Through Common Stocks' in the early 1960's,'' Mr. Buffett wrote in a 1987 article in Forbes. ''From him I learned the value of the 'scuttlebutt' approach: Go out and talk to competitors, suppliers and customers to find out how an industry or a company really operates.''
 In addition to his son Kenneth, of Woodside, Calif., Mr. Fisher is survived by his wife of 61 years, Dorothy; his sister, Caroline E. Fisher of Belmont, Calif.; two other sons, Arthur of Seattle and Donald of Lakeside, Ore.; 11 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.
 Mr. Fisher also offered readers suggestions on finding a portfolio manager. In a 1987 interview with Forbes, he said that he always urged investors to ask for detailed transcripts from prospective advisers to scrutinize their record. 
 ''If they take losses and small losses quickly and let their profits run, give them a gold star,'' he said. ''If they take their profits quickly and let their losses run, don't go near them.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip A. Fisher (Photo by Forbes magazine, 1968) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); ARMIES (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GEOPHARMA INC (69%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (54%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (69%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

KENNETH FISHER (79%); WARREN BUFFETT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



423 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 19, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Advice to Help Kodak Compete in the New World of Digital Photography

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Is Eastman Kodak doing too little too late?
 Last July, after years of hoping that maybe, just maybe, Kodak's once stellar film business could survive the digital juggernaut, its chairman, Daniel A. Carp, finally cried uncle. ''We now know that digital adoption accounts for the great majority of our sales decline in the United States,'' he told analysts. 
 Mr. Carp has acted on his words. Since that time Kodak, which earned $238 million on revenues of $13.32 billion last year, has slashed jobs and its once-sacrosanct dividend, and deployed much of the money it freed up to strengthen its digital portfolio. The job cuts are not over -- in January the company said that it will eliminate as many as 15,000 more jobs by 2006. 
 Kodak has introduced many digital cameras, supplanting Fuji as the fourth-ranked seller -- after Sony, Canon and Olympus -- of digital cameras worldwide, according to IDC, a market intelligence and advisory firm. It has put self-service kiosks into drug and discount stores, where consumers are encouraged to print their own digital photos. Kodak has also fortified its medical imaging business and plunged into commercial printing. It has recruited respected digital experts like Antonio M. Perez from Hewlett-Packard and Bernard Masson from Lexmark, and charged them with creating a fast, digitally oriented culture. 
 Lately, Kodak has been combing its hefty patent portfolio for technologies it can use to enhance its product line. It has licensed digital camera technologies to competitors like Sanyo and Olympus. It has acquired companies that could fit in missing pieces of technology or markets, like Ofoto, an online photo processing operation; PracticeWorks, which sells information systems to dentists; Heidelberger Druckmaschinen's digital printing division, as well as Heidelberger's half of NexPress Solutions, a joint venture with Kodak that makes digital color printers. 
 But investors, many still angry about the dividend cut, remain unimpressed. Kodak's stock, which traded as high as $76 in 1999, has been mired in the mid-20s (it closed at $25.35 on Friday). According to Thomson Financial, six of the nine analysts following Kodak rate it a sell. Early this month, Dow Jones dropped Kodak from the Dow Jones Industrials, pretty much branding it as a company whose glory days are gone. 
 Kodak invented the first digital camera in the mid-1970's and holds nearly 1,000 patents related to digital photography. Yet in most consumers' minds, the Kodak brand is still associated with film. And Sony and Kodak are in an intellectual property battle, with each company suing the other claiming patent infringement. 
 Can Kodak become a giant in this newly digital world? Experts say yes -- but it will take a lot of work. Here is what six Kodak-watchers suggest the company do.

Eugene H. Fram
Marketing professor, Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Business
 Kodak must realize it is finally simple to print pictures at home. I'm getting beautiful pictures of my grandchildren with a $200 H.-P. printer and whatever paper is on sale. I don't need their online archive services, either -- I can store the equivalent of film negatives on a CD at home.
 So Kodak has to comb each division for products to divest, and for products to develop into core businesses, not just here but in China and Europe as well. It must come to grips with the international market -- affluent people in China may well leapfrog right over film to digital, which means film sales will decline a lot quicker than Kodak expects. Kodak's consumer cameras are doing well now because they are easy to use, but they won't be blockbusters in terms of profits or longevity. I'm sure that Sony and H.-P. are making their cameras easier to use, too. So Kodak has to find new products to introduce overseas, and fast. 
 Kodak must bring in even more people with digital experience, and promote them into key positions over the heads of others. Yes, that will cause consternation at Kodak, which is still a hierarchical, conservative company with too many management layers. But Kodak has to be more nimble and productive, and the new people coming in must change the conservative culture.

Mitchell B. Goldstone
Owner, 30 Minute Photos Etc., a photo specialty store in Irvine, Calif.
 Kodak must establish a better link between Ofoto and photo retailers. If customers who upload their digital pictures to Ofoto were directed to order prints from photo specialty stores who use Kodak products, then Kodak could sell a lot more chemicals and paper. And Kodak should already be positioning Ofoto as the center of a network that will link users of camera phones to photo retailers.
 I would recommend that Kodak change its name from the Eastman Kodak Company to Kodak Communications, to get it past the perception that it just sells film. Kodak plans to spend millions of dollars at the summer Olympics, and it should use that opportunity to demonstrate everything they are doing, and can do. After all, blockbuster movies are still filmed, not taped -- but Kodak is doing some pretty neat things with digital theaters, too. It has to tell people about these things, because it has to associate its brand with hipness.

William A. Johnson Jr.
Mayor, Rochester
 Kodak has got to make it clear that the days of constant job cuts are ending. Too many people in this community are saying, ''Be prepared for a Rochester without Kodak.'' Kodak had more than 60,000 employees here in 1973. It's already down to about 21,000, and they have announced more cuts. For now, I can live with 18,000 jobs in Rochester, even 15,000. But Kodak must make it absolutely clear that this number is the floor, that they are finally lean enough to start this turnaround they keep talking about, and to build back to significant employment here. 
 Asia has cornered the market on making electronic gadgetry and components, so it would be fanciful thinking for me to believe those jobs will come back to the U.S. But they've made major investments in photographic paper here, and they shouldn't abandon that. Most importantly, the brains of the operation, the R. and D., should continue to be in Rochester. 

Ulysses Yannas
Photography analyst, Buckman, Buckman & Reid
 Kodak has to outsource more of its manufacturing. It is simply not a low cost producer of equipment. In the digital world, it will make money in consumables like paper, and in services to hospitals and to retailers. Kodak should be talking up the economics of self-service photo kiosks to every mass retailer in sight. 
 Kodak should stick with its strategy for moving beyond photography. It has wonderful new X-ray film technologies, it is using principles of nanotechnology to create better inks and inkjet papers, and it is well positioned to capture market share in commercial printing, a huge field that is converting from offset to digital.
 But it still has to improve on execution. Kodak needs some lower-priced printers to round out its product line. It has to find ways to use more of the patents it's been sitting on. And it must resist any pressure to raise the dividend or buy back stock until it's made good on all those things.

Anthony M. Maramarco
Managing director, David L. Babson Company,investment firm in Cambridge, Mass.
 We bought Kodak stock a few months ago. Kodak has patents in every piece of equipment going out the door, and their ink and paper technology really is rocket science. People began to recognize the breadth and depth of their technology when they started attracting people like Antonio Perez. Now they must be sure not to rein those people in. 
 Kodak is right to focus on medical and consumer photography, the technologies overlap. There's technology overlap with commercial printing, too, but I would suggest that they de-emphasize that anyway, because it's not as potentially profitable as consumer digital products. 
 I want to see Kodak invest its money in cameras, dedicated photo printers, kiosks and paper technology. They should also
 build a market for software and hardware used in cellphone cameras. Being a supplier can be profitable even if your name isn't on the phone. 
 And they shouldn't de-emphasize film too much. In developing nations, that yellow box of film will be around for a while. It's a dying business, but it's still a cash cow, so they should stick with it. 

Judy Hopelain
Managing partner Prophet Brand Strategy, a marketing firm in San Francisco.
 Kodak must do more to insert itself into the ways that people use digital photography. Why aren't they offering something to let tweens and teens use images in instant messaging? Why aren't they doing more with cellphone cameras? Ofoto's online services could help the Kodak brand -- so why not call it Kodak instead of Ofoto? 
 Kodak could create a separate Kodak Technology brand to pursue nonphotography businesses. After all, the best quality print can also mean the best quality X-ray, and capturing a moment can include capturing the details of a tumor. And in the entertainment world, Kodak could create the best collection of stock photos and movie films. 
 But Kodak should rethink the decision to pursue printers and printing. What are they going to do that is unique and brand relevant against Hewlett-Packard and the other big boys? They'll just dilute their brand and stretch their resources.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers at Kodak's factory in Xiamen, China. The plant is among the world's largest for the manufacture of disposable cameras intended for foreign markets. (Photo by Associated Press)
 A 1900 ad for Kodak's popular Brownie Camera. Today, the company is struggling to modernize and become a leader in digital technology. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); PATENTS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (87%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); COMPUTER PERIPHERAL MFG (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); DIVIDENDS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (69%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (66%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (64%); BRANDING (64%) Photography; Computers and the Internet; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (63%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); HEIDELBERGER DRUCKMASCHINEN AG (55%); PRACTICEWORKS INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Eastman Kodak Co

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%); HDD (FRA) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3555 PRINTING TRADES MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: ANTONIO PEREZ (78%) Claudia H Deutsch; Eugene H (Prof) Fram; Mitchell B Goldstone; William A (Mayor) Johnson; Ulysses Yannas; Anthony M Maramarco; Judy Hopelain

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2004



424 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Europe and South America Near Trade Accord

BYLINE: By TODD BENSON

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 19 

 BODY:
South America's biggest economies moved a step closer on Monday to sealing a long-sought trade deal with the European Union, a shift that could complicate efforts to forge a free trade area stretching from Alaska to Argentina by the end of the year.
 Officials from the European Union and Mercosur -- the trade bloc that includes Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay as full members, and Bolivia and Chile as associates -- exchanged offers over the weekend in Buenos Aires with an eye on closing the deal by October. The talks also managed to make progress in agriculture, a sector that has proved to be a deal breaker repeatedly in global trade talks.
 ''We improved our offer substantially, and they are complying by responding to our top priorities, primarily in agriculture,'' said Regis Arslanian, Brazil's chief negotiator in the talks with the European Union. 
 The rush to expand trade with Europe gained a new urgency for the South American bloc earlier this month after separate talks in Buenos Aires to start a 34-nation Free Trade Area of the Americas ended in an impasse for the third time in two months.
 The stalemate prompted negotiators to postpone indefinitely a pan-American trade summit scheduled for later this week in Puebla, Mexico, casting doubt on the likelihood that a free trade zone, including all countries in the Western Hemisphere except Cuba, can be reached by a target date of January 2005.
 ''Two years ago, nobody thought that the talks with the European Union were serious -- everyone said that the F.T.A.A. would come first,'' said Marcos Sawaya Jank, president of the Institute for International Trade Negotiations, or Icone, a research group in Sao Paulo. ''What's so surprising is that now it's the other way around.''
 Fearing that a trade bloc in the Americas might leave European goods and companies at a disadvantage in South America, the European Union began courting the Mercosur countries -- especially regional heavyweights Brazil and Argentina -- about five years ago.
 Disputes over agriculture -- an area in which the South American countries are most competitive and where Europe is most protectionist -- have hobbled the talks from the outset. But the European Union wooed Mercosur back to the table last weekend by offering some concessions in agriculture.
 European officials refused, however, to discuss farm subsidies, a sore spot also slowing the talks for the Americas. Instead, Brussels proposed a two-step approach by which it would initially offer Mercosur more generous import quotas for agricultural goods like beef, dairy products, sugar and instant coffee. The remaining quotas would later be divided up in the continuing Doha round of negotiations at the World Trade Organization.
 In exchange, Mercosur offered the European Union privileged access to new investments and service sectors, particularly telecommunications and banking. The South American bloc also pledged to speed the phasing out of import tariffs on European goods and provide greater legal protections to foreign investors.
 Negotiators from both sides are scheduled to meet in Brussels in the first week of May to iron out any wrinkles, and a blueprint of a deal could be introduced as early as May 28 at a European Union-Latin America summit in Guadalajara, Mexico.
 The apparent shift away from a pan-American pact in favor of Europe also reflects domestic politics in Brazil and Argentina, where two left-leaning governments have sought to avoid being seen as overly friendly to Washington. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, president of Brazil, even warned while he was on the campaign trail that the Free Trade Area of the Americas could mean Brazil's ''annexation'' by the United States if negotiators were not careful, though he has since toned down his rhetoric.
 And with the presidential campaign in the United States already latching on to widespread fears of jobs migrating abroad as a result in part of free trade agreements, the hemispheric pact is facing stiff winds in Washington as well.
 ''There's no question that there is not much fire in the belly in Washington for any further trade arrangements this year,'' said Riordan Roett, director of the Western Hemisphere Program at Johns Hopkins University.
 ''And it's no mystery that the current administration in Brasilia would much prefer to close the E.U. agreement this summer or early fall,'' Mr. Roett said. ''It will be a relatively light trade agreement, but symbolically and diplomatically it's going to be very important.''
 Mercosur is also seizing on the chill in the Americas trade talks to warm up to another of Washington's closest trade partners -- Mexico. On a trip to Argentina last week, the foreign minister of Mexico, Luis Ernesto Derbez, said Mexico had asked to join the South American trade bloc.
 Still, the United States, which is the co-leader of the pan-American negotiations with Brazil, says it is confident that a deal can be reached by next year's deadline. ''We are working hard with others in the F.T.A.A. process to fulfill our mandate,'' Richard Mills, a spokesman for the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, said on Friday.
 In Brasilia, the mood is less upbeat. While Brazilian officials insist that they have not lost hope in the hemispheric talks, they say it is up to the Bush administration to break the deadlock.
 After the negotiations hit a road block earlier this month, Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, sent an unusually harsh letter to Mr. Zoellick in which he suggested that the Americans had poisoned the talks. In the letter, Mr. Amorim criticized the United States for insisting on ''side issues'' instead of moving on to ''mutually beneficial market access negotiation.''
 According to Adhemar Bahadian, co-chairman of the talks with the Americas and Brazil's consul-general in Buenos Aires, ''If the United States doesn't take a more flexible approach, then it's obvious that there won't be an agreement.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Regis Arslanian, Brazil's chief negotiator in talks with the European Union, left, said agriculture was a priority. Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, right, criticized the United States for insisting on ''side issues.'' (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (70%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); IMPORT CONTROLS (60%); SALES & SELLING (55%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%) International Trade and World Market; International Trade and World Market; Agriculture ; Free Ports and Trading Zones

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (84%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (55%) European Union; Mercosur (Common Market)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: Todd Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (97%); BRAZIL (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); PARAGUAY (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); URUGUAY (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); CHILE (93%); BOLIVIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (89%); BELGIUM (79%); MEXICO (79%) Europe; Latin America; Argentina; Brazil; Paraguay; Uruguay; Chile; Bolivia

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



425 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Adelphia Misled Moody's, Ex-Official Says

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER

 BODY:
As the Adelphia Communications Corporation headed toward financial collapse, the company's former chief financial officer, Timothy J. Rigas, misrepresented to a debt-rating agency the terms of margin loans owed by his family, a former Adelphia executive testified yesterday.
 That executive, Karen Chrosniak, said that Mr. Rigas told an official of Moody's Investors Service in May 2002 that large margin loans taken out by him and other Rigas family members would not be called until the price of Adelphia stock had fallen to $3 to $4 a share.
 Ms. Chrosniak said, however, that just a few days before the Moody's meeting, she had been with Mr. Rigas at the company's headquarters when he was told that Deutsche Bank had called in a Rigas family margin loan. The value of Adelphia stock at the time was $6 to $7 a share, she recalled. 
 The comments by Ms. Chrosniak, Adelphia's former director for investor relations, came on her second day of testimony in Federal District Court in Manhattan. In addition to Timothy Rigas, his father, John J. Rigas; his brother, Michael Rigas; and a fourth man, Michael C. Mulcahey; are charged in the case with bank fraud, securities fraud and conspiracy.
 Specifically, prosecutors contend that the Rigases hid $2.3 billion in debt while running Adelphia, misled investors about the company's finances and looted the company of $100 million. The defendants have all pleaded not guilty.
 On Thursday, Ms. Chrosniak, who is testifying for the government under a grant of immunity from prosecution, said Timothy Rigas was aware that she and another company executive, James Brown, had misled investors by distributing information that inflated the number of subscribers to the cable company. In her testimony yesterday, she added that Mr. Rigas had also used that misleading data and similarly inflated data that supposedly represented the number of Adelphia's high-speed Internet subscribers at presentations sponsored by major investment banks.
 Ms. Chrosniak's remarks about Timothy Rigas's representations to Moody's may prove extremely damaging to him, given the timing of those comments. Just a few months before Mr. Rigas met with Moody's in 2002, Adelphia disclosed for the first time that the company was jointly liable for hundreds of millions of dollars owed by the Rigases and that the company would have to pay it if the family could not.
 That disclosure quickly set off a freefall in the value of the company's stock and also activated provisions of margin loans taken out by the Rigases. In a margin loan, shares of stock serve as the security for the loan, and borrowers are often required to put up more collateral if the value of the shares drop below a level set by the lender. 
 Given the financial tumult engulfing the company, Moody's officials asked for a face-to-face meeting, Ms. Chrosniak said.
 ''There were issues with Moody's,'' she testified. ''The company was on credit watch. The company was considering selling a lot of the cable properties to raise cash. The company had yet to issue its 10-K (annual report). You know, there was concern about being delisted from Nasdaq.''
 Mr. Rigas was pressed by a Moody's official, Russ Solomon, to provide the rating agency with information about the terms of outstanding margin loans involving the Rigases. It was at that point that Mr. Rigas told Mr. Solomon that the loans would not be called until Adelphia stock fell further, to $3 to $4 a share.
 ''Did you understand Tim Rigas's answer to Russ Solomon to be truthful,'' a federal prosecutor, Richard D. Owens, asked Ms. Chrosniak.
 ''No,'' she replied.
 Her direct testimony is expected to conclude today, and she will be cross-examined by defense lawyers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); IMMUNITY (72%); CRIMINAL DEFENSES (71%); CONSPIRACY (71%); ETHICS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%) Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (94%); MOODY'S CORP (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Adelphia Communications Corp; Moody's Investors Service Inc; Adelphia Communications Corp

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (94%); MCO (NYSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Barry Meier; Timothy Rigas; Karen Chrosniak; John J Rigas; Michael J Rigas; Michael C Mulcahey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



426 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Rise; 12-Month Performance Is Strong

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3 percent in March, the Conference Board reported yesterday, and posted its greatest 12-month increase in two decades. 
 Companies took longer to fill orders in March, showing an increase in demand, while jobless claims fell, building permits rose and tax refunds helped consumer spending. 
 In February, the index was unchanged after 10 consecutive gains. The increase in March suggested that economists might need to reconsider their projections for growth in the second quarter. The economy is forecast to expand at a 4.3 percent annual pace this quarter, compared with 4.4 percent in the January-through-March period, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.
 The leading indicators' index of the Conference Board, based in New York, tries to show how the economy will perform in the next three to six months. Even with the pause in February, it was up 4.4 percent from the previous 12 months, the most since a 4.6 percent rise in the 12 months ended April 1984.
 Six of the 10 indicators that the Conference Board uses to derive the leading index contributed to the rise, and four were negative.
 New orders for consumer goods and a rise in consumer expectations joined an increase in building permits, improved vendor performance, a drop in jobless claims and an increase in the money supply in accounting for the increase. 
 A narrowing of the spread in the yield between the Treasury's 10-year note and the overnight bank-lending rate, as well as a drop in manufacturing hours, lower stock prices and a decrease in orders for capital goods restrained the rise in the index.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Leading Indicators''Index of the Conference Board's 10 indicators designed to ''lead'' or predict overall economic activity
1996=100.Graph tracks indicators from October 2002 through March 2004.March: +0.3%Feb.: Unch.Jan.: +0.4*Series is inverted in computing index
 that is, an increase in the series is considered downward movement.THE COMPONENTSComponents of the index and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from Feb. to March.Average workweek of manufacturing production workers: -0.05Average initial weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*: +0.07New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflation: +0.01Vendor performance (companies receiving timely deliveries from suppliers): +0.26New orders for non-military capital goods, adjusted for inflation: +0.02New building permits issued: +0.04Index of stock prices: -0.05Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflation: +0.10Spread between rates on 10-year Treasury notes and federal funds: -0.08Index of consumer expectations: +0.01(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%) United States Economy; Leading Economic Indicators

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



427 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Making The Law In Cuba

BYLINE: By Jonathan M. Hansen. 
Jonathan M. Hansen, the author of ''The Lost Promise of Patriotism: Debating American Identity, 1890-1920,'' is writing a book about the history of Guantanamo Bay.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
On June 6, 1898, in one of the first significant battles of the Spanish-American War, the United States Navy cruiser Marblehead entered Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and repelled the Spanish artillery mounted on the hills overlooking the bay. Four days later a battalion of American marines arrived, inaugurating the American occupation that has continued to this day.
 The history of how the United States came to possess Guantanamo Bay illuminates a question in the Supreme Court case to be argued today about whether American courts have jurisdiction over challenges to the detention of hundreds of foreign nationals there: who is sovereign at Guantanamo Bay, the United States or Cuba? If the Supreme Court rules that Cuba is sovereign, the detainees will have no recourse in United States courts.
 The legal arguments in the case involve technical distinctions between sovereignty, jurisdiction and control. The historical record is plainer: Cuba has never been sovereign at Guantanamo Bay. Not only was Guantanamo Spanish territory when the United States seized it in 1898, but the ensuing lease between Cuba and the United States formalizing American occupation was completed amid a climate of coercion. To understand that coercion, it is necessary to return to a moment more than a century ago when the United States intervened in the Cuban war of independence against Spain. 
 The American forces that first occupied Guantanamo in June 1898 were late arrivals in a colonial struggle already three years old. The American victory over Spain was all but assured by then thanks to the skill and determination of the Cuban revolutionaries.
 But history is written by the victors, and by midsummer 1898 the Cubans' role in the Spanish defeat was already being written off. Cuba's war of independence had become a mere ''insurrection,'' its leaders notorious for their lawlessness and caprice. The Spanish-American diplomacy that concluded the war formalized the disregard: neither the armistice of August 1898 nor the Treaty of Paris signed that December allowed for any Cuban participation. The year 1898 drew to a close with the American flag fluttering over Havana and Guantanamo Bay firmly in the grip of a United States military government.
 Congress had pledged America to Cuban independence, which raised the problem of how to secure United States political and economic interests in Cuba after the provisional American government departed. Congress resolved this problem in 1901 by passing the Platt Amendment, which curtailed Cuba's right to conduct its own foreign and fiscal policy, granted America the right to intervene at will in Cuban affairs, and compelled Cuba to ''sell or lease to the United States lands necessary for coaling or naval stations at certain specified points, to be agreed upon by the president of the United States.''
 In the face of American pressure and despite the mounting opposition of Cuban citizens, the Cuban Constitutional Convention ratified the Platt Amendment in June 1901. Thus the American occupation of Guantanamo received Cuba's official sanction.
 Subsequent treaties in 1903 and 1934 between the United States and Cuba confirmed American supremacy at Guantanamo. But the insistence in these documents of Cuba's ''ultimate sovereignty'' over the bay did not change the facts on the ground. Moreover, a clause in the 1934 treaty requires both signatories to agree to any termination of the lease.
 Meanwhile, let the Supreme Court recognize what history demonstrates beyond a shadow of a doubt: Cuba is not and never has been sovereign at Guantanamo Bay. Acknowledging this regrettable truth may actually help extend the rule of law. By conceding the legacy of America's trampling of Cuban sovereignty a century ago, the court would have to acknowledge the constitutional rights of the foreign nationals detained at Guantanamo today.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JURISDICTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); HISTORY (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); LITIGATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) Suits and Litigation; Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba); Freedom and Human Rights; Prisoners of War; Treaties; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: Jonathan M Hansen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Afghanistan; Spain; Cuba; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



428 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Pressure to Hold Militant Sets Off Outcry in Indonesia

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, April 19 

 BODY:
An effort by the Bush administration to ensure that Abu Bakar Bashir, the leader of the militant Islamic organization Jemaah Islamiyah, remains in jail and is fully prosecuted on terrorism charges has set off a diplomatic and political tempest here.
 In the middle of an intense political campaign, Islamists and nationalists are denouncing what they see as undue interference in Indonesia's internal affairs, and presidential candidates are expected to join in condemning the American pressure.
 A lawyer for Mr. Bashir said in a brief telephone interview on Monday that he thought his client would not be released because of the pressure from the United States. Indonesian officials also indicated that they would continue to detain Mr. Bashir and would probably charge him again. They said their thinking was based on new evidence linking him to the bombing of nightclubs in Bali in October 2002, not because of pressure from the United States and Australia, which has made the same case against Mr. Bashir, the officials said. 
 ''We are not troubled by America's, and Australia's, views on Abu Bakar Bashir,'' Mary Natalegawa, the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview on Monday. ''We would like to ask them to be more circumspect, more economical in expressing their views.''
 Based on interrogations of several suspected members of Al Qaeda now in United States custody, American officials say Mr. Bashir was a critical participant in several terrorist attacks, including the ones in Bali, which killed more than 200 people.
 Mr. Bashir -- who has steadfastly denied any terrorist activities, but not a loathing for the United States and Jews -- was convicted of only relatively minor offenses last September, and a Supreme Court ruling last month made him eligible for release. Hoping to block that, the American ambassador, Ralph L. Boyce, has appealed to President Megawati Sukarnoputri, police officials and the heads of several Islamic organizations.
 Australia has made similar entreaties. ''We've been talking to the Indonesians,'' said the Australian ambassador here, David Ritchie. ''It disquiets us that he may be out of jail,'' he added.
 The challenge for the United States and Australia has been has been to get the Indonesians to look for ''other options,'' as Mr. Ritchie put it, while keeping a low profile. 
 Mr. Boyce's problems arose out of his trying to enlist prominent Indonesian Muslim leaders to the cause. Last month, he called on Syafii Maarif, the leader of Muhammadiyah, one of the country's two largest Muslim organizations. Mr. Maarif was one of the Muslim leaders who met with President Bush in Bali last October, and Mr. Boyce presented him with a photograph with Mr. Bush. However, Mr. Maarif wrote in a column last week in Republica, the most pro-Islamic of Indonesia's mainstream newspapers, that the real purpose of the visit was Mr. Bashir.
 Mr. Boyce asked Mr. Maarif to intercede with the Supreme Court and the police to keep Mr. Bashir in jail, Mr. Maarif wrote. The column touched off a public outcry.
 In a meeting with Indonesian journalists on Monday, Mr. Boyce acknowledged that he had met with Mr. Maarif but declined to say what the two men had discussed, according to individuals who were present. 
 The Indonesian government has complained that it has been unable to present a strong case against Mr. Bashir because the United States has denied Indonesian officials access to a senior Qaeda leader, Riudan Isamuddin, better known as Hambali, who has been in American custody at an undisclosed location since he was seized by the C.I.A. in Bangkok last August. But similar information has come from other detainees, an Indonesian official said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Abu Bakar Bashir in a prison in Jakarta, Indonesia, last month. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RELIGION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%) United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (91%); AL-QAEDA (54%) Jemaah Islamiyah (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) Raymond Bonner; Abu Bakar Bashir; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (95%); AUSTRALIA (95%) Indonesia; Jakarta (Indonesia); Australia; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



429 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Questions of Interest

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''Yes, the republic is in danger,'' a friend said. ''But what's going to happen to interest rates?'' O.K., let's take a break from politics.
 Over the past two years, interest rates have been very low. Last June the 10-year bond rate hit a 48-year low. Even three weeks ago the rate was still below 4 percent, a level last seen in 1963. 
 If the economy fully recovers -- or even if investors just think it will -- interest rates will rise sharply. In its World Economic Outlook report, to be issued tomorrow, the International Monetary Fund urges the Federal Reserve to prepare the economy for higher rates to ''avoid financial market disruption both domestically and abroad.'' 
 But how far will rates rise? Let's not get into Greenspan Kremlinology, parsing the chairman's mumbles for clues about the Fed's next move. Let's ask, instead, how much rates will rise if and when normal conditions of supply and demand resume in the bond market.
 My calculations keep leading me to a 10-year bond rate of 7 percent, and a mortgage rate of 8.5 percent -- with a substantial possibility that the numbers will be even higher. Current rates are about 4.3 and 5.8 percent, respectively; you can see why the I.M.F. is worried about ''financial market disruption.''
 Why 7 percent? Well, in the past 20 years the average yield on 10-year bonds has, in fact, been about 7 percent. Why shouldn't we think of that as the norm?
 Some people say that unlike past interest rates, future interest rates won't include a premium for expected inflation. Indeed, over the past 20 years the average inflation rate was 3 percent, considerably higher than recent experience. But in the first three months of 2004, prices rose at an annual rate of more than 5 percent. That number included soaring gasoline prices, but even the ''core'' price index, which excludes food and energy, rose at a 2.9 percent rate.
 More to the point, investors expect considerable inflation over the next 10 years. The spread between ''inflation protected'' bonds, whose payments are indexed to the Consumer Price Index, and ordinary bonds indicates an expected inflation rate of 2.5 percent during the next decade.
 So you can't claim that interest rates will be far below historical levels because inflation is gone. And on the other side, we need to think about the impact of budget deficits.
 That last sentence will send the deficit apologists to battle stations (sorry, I can't avoid politics completely). For many years, advocates of tax cuts have insisted that the normal laws of supply and demand don't apply to the bond market, and that government borrowing -- unlike borrowing by families or businesses -- doesn't affect interest rates. But there's no argument among serious, nonideological economists. For example, a textbook by Gregory Mankiw, now the president's chief economist, declares -- in italics -- that ''when the government reduces national saving by running a budget deficit, the interest rate rises.'' 
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates this year's structural budget deficit -- what the deficit would be if cyclical factors like a depressed economy went away -- at 3.9 percent of G.D.P. That's almost twice the average during the past 20 years. Standard estimates say this should push up 10-year interest rates by around one percentage point.
 Finally, there's the upside risk. As I've pointed out before, the twin U.S. budget and trade deficits would set alarm bells ringing if we were a third world country. For now, America gets the benefit of the doubt, but if financial markets decide that we have turned into a banana republic, the sky's the limit for interest rates.
 Now for the obvious point: many American families and businesses will be in big trouble if interest rates really do go as high as I'm suggesting. That's why the I.M.F. is urging the Fed to get the word out.
 And one suspects that the fund, which, like Alan Greenspan, tends to convey messages in code, is firing a shot across Mr. Greenspan's bow. A number of analysts have accused Mr. Greenspan of fostering a debt bubble in recent years, just as they accuse him of feeding the stock bubble during the 1990's. Just two months ago, Mr. Greenspan went out of his way to emphasize the financial benefits of adjustable-rate, as opposed to fixed-rate, mortgages. Let's hope that not too many families regarded that as useful advice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Credit; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Housing; Mortgages; Finances; Government Bonds

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) International Monetary Fund; Federal Reserve System

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



430 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Warms to Plan To Raise Taxes On the Wealthy

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 19 

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey met with legislative leaders on Monday to negotiate details of a plan that would provide property tax rebates to elderly and middle-income homeowners by enacting a steep income tax increase for New Jersey's wealthiest residents.
 After balking at the idea of a so-called millionaire's tax for months, Mr. McGreevey indicated last week that he would be willing to call a joint session of the Legislature to propose a tax increase for wealthy New Jerseyans, provided that the proceeds would be dedicated to property tax relief. 
 According to legislative and administration officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, the plan under consideration would raise the levy on households with a taxable income of more than $500,000 to about 9 percent from the current rate of 6.37 percent. The $700 million raised by such an increase would be used to pay for the homestead rebates, which offer refunds to home owners 65 and older, and restore the New Jersey Saver rebates to middle-income New Jerseyans, which Mr. McGreevey reduced during previous budget crises.
 Micah Rasmussen, the governor's spokesman, acknowledged that Mr. McGreevey and legislative leaders were discussing the issue, but said that it was still far from resolved.
 "He's going to be deliberative about it, he's going to be thoughtful about it, and anyone who tells you they know any numbers is wrong," Mr. Rasmussen said.
 Whatever the final numbers of the proposal, Republicans say it will violate Mr. McGreevey's campaign promise not to increase the income or sales tax. Business owners, who faced a steep tax increase during Mr. McGreevey's first year in office, say the plan will also dampen the state's economy just as it is beginning to recover.
 "Business owners already feel terribly squeezed," said Art Maurice, first vice president of the New Jersey Business and Industry Association.
 But New Jersey's property taxes, among the highest in the nation, have risen sharply since Mr. McGreevey was inaugurated in January 2002, leading Democratic lawmakers to push the administration for some sort of relief package. Mr. McGreevey, who has struggled with low approval ratings, is also under pressure to defuse the property tax issue before beginning his re-election campaign next year. If approved, the plan would become part of the budget that takes effect July 1.
 While the governor would have preferred to avoid any income tax increase, his administration has already used billions of dollars in bonds to balance its budgets. Rather than enacting politically unpopular program cuts in his $26.3 billion budget plan, Mr. McGreevey is now leaning toward the tax increase for wealthy New Jerseyans, which has come to be called the millionaire's tax despite the $500,000 threshold. The measure has broad support among voters, according to recent public opinion polls.
 Statistics provided by the state suggest why: about 35,000 families would pay higher taxes under the proposal being discussed Monday, while more than 2.5 million homeowners would receive higher property tax rebates.
 Jon Shure, president of the New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal research group, first proposed the millionaire's tax in December 2002 and has lobbied this year to use the money for increased health care coverage for the poor and to increase aid to schools. Mr. Shure, who also heads the group the Fairness Alliance, said the property tax rebate program was at least a first step in that direction.
 But Republicans say that the plan now being discussed by the McGreevey administration is ill-conceived and unfair. Republicans have been calling for a constitutional convention to overhaul the state's tax code, an initiative the governor has yet to support, and argue that it is irresponsible to raise income tax rates without re-examining the entire system.
 ''No citizen, regardless of income, should be forced to pay higher taxes until there is structural reform, ethical reform and greater fiscal controls,'' said Joe Farren, a Republican spokesman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



431 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: City Gets List of Proposals For Cost-Effective Recycling

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Full resumption of recycling in New York City this month was an important step toward getting the program back on track, but substantial changes must be made if recycling is to be as cost-effective as promised, according to a new report by a coalition of environmental groups. 
 The report does not recommend changing the material collected or pickup schedules, subjects that have already caused substantial confusion in New York. Instead, the focus is on new approaches to what have until now been behind-the-scenes aspects of the recycling program -- like who runs it and what happens to the collected material -- that have a substantial impact on whether it costs more to recycle than to simply throw bottles, cans and plastic in the trash. 
 It was the higher cost of collecting the recyclable materials, and the limited market for selling what the city picked up at curbside, that led Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to eliminate glass and plastics from the program in 2002. The percentage of the city's trash that is recycled has since dropped to 11 percent, from 20.3 percent in 2002. 
 ''Although we may have disagreed with the mayor's idea to suspend recycling, now that we're bringing it back, there are incredible opportunities to upgrade it,'' Timothy J.W. Logan, a coordinator with the New York City Environmental Justice Alliance, one of the groups that contributed to the report, said yesterday. ''And this is the time to do it.''
 With the resumption of full recycling, glass and plastics are again being collected weekly, along with metal and paper. 
 The report, to be released today, makes 10 recommendations that it says will help recycling recover lost ground and become more cost-effective. Foremost among them is creating a powerful office of recycling, which would be more business-oriented and have more influence in determining what is done with recycled material after it is collected. 
 ''The current structure of the city's recycling program significantly hampers its ability to put cost-saving strategies in place,'' said the report. Currently, the Bureau of Waste Prevention, Reuse and Recycling is a comparatively small office of 24 people within the Department of Sanitation. Its director, Robert Lange, is basically in charge of planning, while the department's operations officials actually run it. 
 At hearings before the City Council last month on the restoration of full recycling, Mr. Lange was not asked to speak, nor did he sit at the table with Sanitation Commissioner John Doherty during a long discussion of the merits of recycling. 
 Mr. Lange defended his office. ''There are always improvements that can be made to make work move more smoothly, but you work with what you have,'' he said. 
 Unless the recycling office is given more authority, the report said, New York will be unable to develop strong markets for recyclable materials or deal with handlers as efficiently as San Francisco, Toronto and other cities with strong recycling offices. 
 Marcia Bystryn, executive director of the New York League of Conservation Voters and a contributor to the report, agreed that the recycling office should be more powerful. She headed the city's recycling program for three years in the early 1990's, when she was an assistant commissioner in the Sanitation Department.
 ''Simply by virtue of being assistant commissioner, one has greater visibility within the department, which gives you the ability to work more effectively within the department and gives you greater credibility with other departments,'' she said. 
 Ms. Bystryn said the entrepreneurial nature of recycling did not fit well within the Sanitation Department's traditional responsibilities of collecting and cleaning. 
 The report raises the possibility of moving the recycling office out of the Sanitation Department and into a more entrepreneurial part of city government, like the Economic Development Corporation, which later this year will help the recycling company that wins the city's first 20-year contract build a modern processing plant. 
 The report's other recommendations include expanding the types of bottles covered by New York's bottle bill, and streamlining recyclable collections by picking up glass, plastics, metal and paper all in a single truck. 
 Collection accounts for 85 percent of costs, and it would be less expensive to separate the items at a specialized plant than to pick them up with separate trucks, the report says. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WASTE REDUCTION (78%); CITIES (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



432 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Way Clears for Spaniard to Lead I.M.F.

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER; Katrin Bennhold in Paris contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: LONDON, April 19 

 BODY:
Rodrigo Rato, the former finance minister of Spain, was poised Monday to become Europe's choice to head the International Monetary Fund, after France dropped its support of a rival candidate, Jean Lemierre, president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
 European financial officials said the Irish finance minister, Charlie McCreevy, whose country holds the rotating presidency of the European Union, was expected to announce imminently that an agreement among the Europeans had been reached on Mr. Rato. 
 Because Europe, by tradition, selects the head of the I.M.F., Mr. Rato would be set to succeed Horst Kohler, who is leaving the Washington-based organization to run for president of Germany. 
 On Monday, Mr. Lemierre was elected to a second four-year term as head of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the multinational lender created to assist in the transition of former Communist-bloc countries to market economies. 
 In response, the French finance ministry issued a statement congratulating him and noting pointedly, ''France is convinced that Jean Lemierre will be able to meet these challenges for the full duration of the next four years.''
 One European finance ministry official, who insisted on anonymity, said, ''Now that that's happened, you're left with a de facto selection of Rato.''
 Mr. McCreevy told Reuters that he was hopeful a decision could be reached this week, before the annual spring meetings this weekend of the I.M.F. and its sister institution, the World Bank, which is generally led by an American.
 Mr. Rato has won respect from his peers for the Spanish government's stewardship of the economy, the fastest-growing among the large euro zone countries in recent years, a time when Germany, in particular, has been mired in a slump.
 As late as Monday, officials said Gordon Brown, Britain's chancellor of the Exchequer and chairman of the I.M.F. members' committee, was calling his counterparts in other finance ministries to gauge their preferences, before making a recommendation to Mr. McCreevy. For the first time in an I.M.F. selection process, officials said, countries outside Europe were being polled -- including Latin American countries who are among the I.M.F.'s biggest borrowers.
 ''It's very positive and should improve the relationship between some Latin American countries and the I.M.F., where it has perhaps been more difficult in the past,'' Susana Garcia-Cervero, an economist at Deutsche Bank who covers Spain, said of Mr. Rato's prospective nomination.
 Mr. Rato was also seen as acceptable to Washington. Though the new government of Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero this weekend ordered Spanish troops home from Iraq, Mr. Rato served as finance minister under Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar, who supported the United States-led invasion of Iraq. 
 By contrast, Germany and France, who have provided the last two I.M.F. heads -- Mr. Kohler and Michel Camdessus -- opposed the Bush administration in Iraq, and there has been speculation that Washington might have favored the Spanish candidate as a result.
 ''There was probably a bit more resistance to the usual French-German stitchup this time,'' said a European financial official, speaking on the sidelines of the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development's annual meeting.
 Samuel Bodman, a United States Treasury under secretary, said during a news conference at the bank's meeting that the United States was leaving the decision to the Europeans.
 ''We believe that both Mr. Lemierre and Mr. Rato have personal characteristics that would qualify them to run the I.M.F.,'' Mr. Bodman said.
 Critics of the selection process for head of the I.M.F. say a more transparent method is needed, one that chooses from a wider pool of candidates.
 ''A Spaniard, backed by a large part of the developing world, is at least a step in the right direction,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rodrigo Rato, poised to be the new president of the I.M.F., has broad support in the United States, Europe and the developing nations. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EURO (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%) 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%) International Monetary Fund

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (58%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (58%); GORDON BROWN (50%) Eric Pfanner; Rodrigo (Min) Rato; Jean Lemierre

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



433 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Brief in WorldCom Case Cites Analysts' Influence in Share Price

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission is aiding investors in the WorldCom securities class action.
 In an unusual brief filed in support of the lead plaintiff in the case, commission lawyers argue that analysts like Jack B. Grubman do affect the price of a company's stock and bonds and may be held accountable for misrepresentations they may make. Citigroup, the parent of his employer, is contending that Mr. Grubman's unrelenting enthusiasm for WorldCom securities had no impact and therefore investors were not harmed when they relied on his reports. 
 The S.E.C.'s brief was filed late Friday in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The appellate court will hear arguments on May 10 on whether the district court erred in allowing the claims against Mr. Grubman and Salomon Smith Barney, the brokerage unit of Citigroup, to go forward as a securities class-action suit. The case was brought by investors who bought WorldCom securities in the years leading up to its bankruptcy protection filing in July 2002. 
 The commission's brief was filed in support of Alan G. Hevesi, the comptroller of New York whose New York State Retirement Fund is the lead plaintiff in the WorldCom securities litigation. The fund's lawyers at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman in New York will argue that Mr. Grubman, the most powerful telecommunications analyst on Wall Street in the late 1990's, had a profound impact on the price of WorldCom's securities. The New York State fund lost over $300 million in its WorldCom investments. 
 At issue is a bedrock concept in securities law known as the fraud-on-the-market theory, used in many securities fraud cases. Under this concept, all widely disseminated information about a publicly traded security is reflected in its market price, and investors rely on the integrity of this price when deciding whether to buy or sell a security. Therefore, any information about the company that is false or misleading is reflected in the market price and can harm investors who buy or sell relying on that market price. 
 Lawyers at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in New York, representing Citigroup in the class action, argue in their brief that this legal theory should apply neither to analysts in general nor to Mr. Grubman in particular. Their brief states that institutional investors ignore analysts' reports and that analysts' opinions -- including that of Mr. Grubman -- are simply part of a conglomeration of information and do not have a distinct effect on securities prices. 
 There is no reason to believe that Mr. Grubman's opinions, which relied on WorldCom's disclosures, had any distinct price impact ''over and above the price consequences of WorldCom's massive ongoing fraud,'' Citigroup's lawyers said in their brief. As such, each investor should have to prove that he was harmed by Mr. Grubman and Salomon in individual cases, not as a class action.
 But lawyers at the S.E.C. countered that economic studies showed that analysts' reports affect securities prices and that their very purpose was to provide information upon which investors base their decisions. 
 ''A prestigious analyst's recommendation is certainly a material factor in the stock's market price,'' said Lewis D. Lowenfels, an expert in securities law at Tolins & Lowenfels in New York. ''Given Mr. Grubman's expertise and stature, it is hard to believe that the magnitude of WorldCom's stock price did not reflect his recommendations and enthusiasm.'' 
 In arguing that Mr. Grubman's opinions did have an impact on WorldCom's stock and bond prices, lawyers for the New York State fund noted in their brief the ''unusually close relationship'' between Mr. Grubman and WorldCom, citing the analyst's attendance at board meetings where acquisitions were discussed.
 Mr. Grubman's influence was so pervasive that Salomon specifically solicited prospective investment banking clients by promising them that Mr. Grubman would ''support'' the stock with favorable research reports if they retained Salomon as their investment banker, the brief stated. 
 The brief also noted that the New York fund has uncovered new evidence showing that Mr. Grubman ''fraudulently manipulated the underlying financial analyses he used to value WorldCom stock to maintain falsely inflated target prices for the stock and justify a buy rating, even though WorldCom's performance did not satisfy Salomon's own criteria to earn such a rating.'' 
 The filing of friend-of-the-court briefs, as they are known, is not common at the S.E.C., securities lawyers said. Such briefs are filed either when the commission is invited by the court to render its opinion or when S.E.C. lawyers believe the legal issue at stake important enough to weigh in with its view. 
 It is unclear what prompted the WorldCom filing. But the brief seems to be evidence of continued vigilance by the S.E.C. on issues related to brokerage firm research even after its historic settlement with Citigroup and other Wall Street firms over analyst conflicts more than a year ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (74%); JUDICIAL ERROR (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); ETHICS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (52%) Suits and Litigation; Ethics

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (84%); BERNSTEIN LITOWITZ BERGER & GROSSMANN LLP (83%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%) Worldcom Inc; Citigroup Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission; Salomon Smith Barney; New York State Retirement Fund; Worldcom Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Jack Grubman; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



434 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Expects Concessions On Trade From China

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19 

 BODY:
In a rare concession to United States trading demands, China is expected to pledge this week to crack down on pirating and counterfeiting of software, DVD's and other forms of intellectual property, according to American trade officials who have been preparing for trade talks here on Wednesday.
 Enforcement of intellectual property rights in China has been an economic priority for the Bush administration, during an election year in which the White House wants to show that it is getting tough protecting American industry from unfair trading practices.
 But the administration's previous strategy of sending senior officials to Beijing to publicly demand these changes failed to move Chinese officials. Only by adopting a narrow agenda and carefully choreographing a one-day session at which both sides appear to be making concessions has the administration been able to coax the semblance of a compromise from the Chinese.
 Now, after weeks of consultations in Beijing, in preparation for the meeting here on Wednesday, administration officials expect the Chinese to present a ''credible and effective action plan to reduce piracy and counterfeiting,'' said Josette Shiner, deputy United States trade representative. 
 The plan is likely to involve more aggressive enforcement by Chinese police officials, who have tended to ignore the brisk retail business in counterfeit software, DVD's and music CD's throughout the country.
 China is also expected to agree to speed the full opening of its market to American goods and services -- something that had been scheduled to happen by December but may now take place months sooner.
 In some other areas of dispute, though, people who have been involved in the briefings say that China may offer little more than nebulous promises -- a nonspecific commitment to stop using new taxes and new technical standards to block imports from the United States, for example, and a stated intention to stop forcing the transfer of American technology to Chinese companies in exchange for doing business in China.
 Some other important areas of disagreement between the two countries -- including China's currency controls and labor practices, the textile industry and subsidies that the United States pays to farmers -- will not even be on the agenda.
 Democrats are almost certain to seize upon the limitations of Wednesday's talks as evidence that the Bush administration is not being firm enough with China. 
 For China to make any concessions now is as much a reflection of new economic conditions as a serious change of heart. As Chinese leaders contend with an overheated economy and signs of potentially runaway inflation, they want a sure footing for their relationship with the United States. If its economic bubble bursts, China will need an open United States market if it hopes to have a soft landing.
 ''The Chinese understand this is not the time for an argument with the United States,'' said Nayan Chanda, Asian scholar and director of publications at Yale's Center for the Study of Globalization. ''They have been extremely careful, basically lying low and keeping their heads down while they deal with their domestic economy.''
 The agenda, and the areas of Chinese conciliation, have been carefully carved out to ensure signs of success from the unusually high-level talks, which will be between Wu Yi, the Chinese vice premier, and the American co-chairmen of the meeting: Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans and Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative.
 Criticism of China for reportedly stealing American jobs and livelihoods through unfair trade as well as adding to the United States record trade deficit, has spread from Congressional hearing rooms to the presidential campaign trail, forcing the administration to send senior officials to Beijing in recent weeks to figure out where China was willing to bend and how to craft a compromise.
 For all the hedging, the negotiators found common ground on a crucial matter: China's treatment of intellectual property rights. 
 Not only have copyrights and patents been routinely ignored in China; the Chinese have routinely demanded that American firms share protected intellectual property through various means as the price of doing business.
 ''Innovation is our role in the marketplace; we have to have the assurance that our innovations will be protected,'' said Grant Aldonas, the Commerce Department's under secretary for international trade.
 The administration has also learned which issues to avoid in order to win China's cooperation.
 Out of bounds is the thorny issue of China's currency exchange rate, which American manufacturers contend is too low and allows China to sell its products overseas at below-market prices. 
 China is slowing moving toward showing more flexibility in the exchange rate of its currency, but says its will do so following its own timetable. And the administration hopes that the problem will be addressed later in the week at the annual spring meeting of the International Monetary Fund, where China's currency will be part of a larger push on adjusting exchange rates.
 Also absent from the discussions is China's labor policies. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. filed an unusual trade complaint last month asking President Bush to punish China for reportedly gaining a commercial advantage in trade through violating workers' rights. The unfair measures, according to the complaint, include suppressing strikes, banning independent trade unions and not enforcing minimum wage laws.
 Democrats will be reluctant to give up China as a political issue, even if China does make some concessions.
 Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and the ranking minority member of the House Ways and Means trade subcommittee, criticized the administration's decision not to discuss labor issues or currency or voluntary limits by China on textile exports once global textile tariffs are lifted next year.
 ''This is a reflection of an approach that has been inconsistent and very incomplete,'' Mr. Levin said in an interview. ''You have to do more than get active the year of a presidential election.''
 A sign of China's commitment to smoothing its often fractious trading relationship with Washington was naming Wu Yi as the head of the trade delegation. 
 Ms. Wu, who is 66, was educated as an engineer at the Beijing Petroleum Institute. She gained her current prominence by helping salvage the government's policies in the worst days of the epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, last year, when she stepped in as health minister, revealed the full extent of the epidemic and sought the advice of international health experts. Earlier, when she was China's top trade official she impressed American negotiators with her fierce intelligence and her ability to gauge how far she could push her adversary.
 ''If China has a difficult problem with the international community, they give it to Wu Yi,'' said Robert Cassidy, a former deputy and China specialist at the office of the United States trade representative.
 Hamilton Loeb, a trade lawyer and senior partner in the firm Paul, Hastings, who sometimes represents the Chinese government and industry, said that the administration's approach to the one-day session reflected China's way of doing business but that it could still backfire.
 ''It would be very unlike the Chinese to come over to this meeting without having a very good idea of how it will come out,'' Mr. Loeb said. ''They will have a group of proposals that will indicate change and a more aggressive posture, but they also have a make it or break, it bottom line. It's up to the United States not to cross that line.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''On the Table . . .''Issues up for discussion in a new trade pact between the United States and China.INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTSThe United States wants China to present a plan to end pirating and counterfeiting of software, DVD's and other products and to no longer require companies to share their innovative technologies in order to manufacture in China.PROTECTIONIST TAXES AND TECHNOLOGY STANDARDSThe U.S. wants China to stop using new taxes and new technical standards to block imports and force the transfer of technology to Chinese companies.FULL TRADE RIGHTS WITHIN CHINAThe U.S. wants China to immediately open its entire national market to imported goods and services, rather than waiting until December. China has been late changing its laws to meet previous deadlines on this issue.''MARKET ECONOMY'' DESIGNATIONChina has asked the U.S. to grant it official status as a market economy. That recognition would enhance China's trading position by forcing its trade partners to recognize the country's real domestic production costs, instead of using higher calculations that China says makes it appear that the country is unfairly selling its exports at artificially low prices.Off the TableIssues that will not be raised in the negotiations for the trade pact.CURRENCY RATESThe U.S. will not press its demand that China raise the value of its currency against the dollar. Instead, the issue will be taken up later this week at the spring meeting of the International Monetary Fund.U.S. FARM SUBSIDIESChina is a member of the Group of 21 countries that want to reduce $300 billion in annual subsidies that the world's wealthy nations give to domestic agriculture. The United States refuses to discuss the issue with China or any other country except in talks held by the World Trade Organization.CHINA LABOR STANDARDSThe U.S. will not raise issues addressed by an AFL-CIO petition demanding that China's labor policies be penalized as unfair trading practices.TEXTILESDespite pleas from the American textile industry, the U.S. will not press China to agree to voluntary limits on its exports after global textile quotas are lifted next year.(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLICE FORCES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); MUSIC (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); IMPORT CONTROLS (62%); TEXTILES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Counterfeit Merchandise; Computers and the Internet; Recordings (Video); Dvd (Digital Versatile Disk); Music; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



435 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Internal Shell Inquiry Shows Battle Between Executives
A tense and at times hostile relationship between the two most powerful executives of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group caused the company to wait more than two years before disclosing that its oil and gas reserves were overstated, according to a summary of an internal inquiry made public by the company yesterday.
 The summary describes pressure that Sir Philip Watts, the chairman from 2001 until last month, exerted on the man who succeeded him as head of exploration and production, Walter van de Vijver, to ''leave no stone unturned'' to meet the goal of reporting that Shell was replacing every barrel pumped out of the ground with a new barrel of reserves. [Page A1.]

Cendant Chief Takes Pay Cut
Bowing to shareholder pressure, Henry R. Silverman, the chairman and chief executive of Cendant, took a bit of a pay cut as the company announced changes to his employment contract. The move came the day that jury selection began in the securities fraud case of two former Cendant officers and the day before Cendant's annual meeting with shareholders. [C8.]

Two Law Firms Plan to Merge
Two elite law firms, Wilmer Cutler Pickering of Washington and Hale & Dorr of Boston, are expected to announce plans to merge. [C2.]

A Tentative Microsoft Settlement
Microsoft said it reached a preliminary settlement with consumers in Minnesota who claimed the company had overcharged them for software from 1994 to 2001. [C5.]

F.C.C. Is Asked to Reverse Ruling
A group representing 24 media organizations and individual performers filed a petition asking the Federal Communications Commission to reconsider its ruling against NBC for violating decency standards. [C4.]

Nasdaq Rises and Dow Declines
Technology shares rose, but blue chips and the broader market fell. The Nasdaq composite index rose 24.69 points, to 2,020.43. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 14.12 points, to 10,437.85, while the Standard & Poor's 500 gained 1.21 points, percent, to 1,135.82. [C8.]

Leading Indicators Show a Gain
The index of leading economic indicators rose 0.3 percent in March. [C7.]

Eli Lilly Profit Falls as Sales Rise
Eli Lilly said that its first-quarter profit fell 1.6 percent as it spent more to market new drugs and pay for an acquisition. Sales rose 17 percent. Sidney Taurel, chief executive of Lilly, increased spending to promote six drugs introduced over the last two years and prepare two new products for regulatory approval in the United States. That helped quarterly sales growth match the highest level in more than five years. [C4.]

Fannie Mae said its quarterly earnings slipped 2 percent, though earnings in its core mortgage business rose. [C8.]

The 3M Company said its first-quarter earnings climbed 44 percent, helped by the economic rebound and new products. [C12.]

The Wachovia Corporation posted a first-quarter profit of 22 percent. [C13.]

Hopes for an Advertising Offering
Executives at M&C Saatchi say an initial public offering will be different from a previous one at a namesake firm. Advertising. [C4.]

Inventions to Ease Air Travel
More than a century after the first powered flight by the Wright brothers, inventors continue to dream up ideas for enhancing air travel. A look at new patent filings. [C6.]

Flight Attendants Upset Over Memo
American Airlines' flight attendants have one more reason to be unhappy these days, and it has to do with a memorandum from an American regional executive who basically told them that they were doing a crummy job. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,437.85 down 14.12Nasdaq composite -- 2,020.43 up 24.6910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.39% up 0.05The euro -- $1.2021 up 0.0031The dollar -- 108.80 yen up 1.08Graph tracks share prices of Eli Lilly for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); LAW FIRM MERGERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); JURY TRIALS (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); APPROVALS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (52%); PETITIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (94%); WILMER CUTLER PICKERING HALE & DORR LLP (83%); WELLS FARGO & CO (80%); 3M CO (60%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); ELI LILLY & CO (52%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (94%); RDSA (AMS) (94%); RDS.B (NYSE) (94%); RDS.A (NYSE) (94%); WFC (NYSE) (80%); MMM (SWX) (60%); MMM (NYSE) (60%); MMM (FRA) (60%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); LLY (SWX) (52%); LLY (NYSE) (52%); LEL (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (94%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (60%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (60%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (60%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY R SILVERMAN (56%); SIDNEY TAUREL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



436 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Clearing the Air

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The journalist has the ultimate power, a cynic once said, the power to choose whom to be co-opted by. 
 That temptation is never greater than when you are writing about environmental policy. You can go to the environmental groups and get one set of facts. Or you can go to the industry groups and get an entirely different set of facts. Both sides have long histories of exaggeration and distortion, and there's no other realm of public policy in which it is so hard to find honest brokers, capable of offering a balanced perspective. 
 Nonetheless, over the past couple of decades, I've stumbled across a few, and I've been consulting them in the hope of getting a grip on the Bush clean-air record.
 The first thing to be said is that air pollution trends are unchanged under President Bush. For the past three decades, the quality of our air has steadily improved. Air pollution from the six major pollutants has decreased by 48 percent over that time, even though our economy has grown by 164 percent. If you look at the charts showing that decline, you can't tell when the Clinton era ended and the Bush era began.
 The Bush administration's biggest air pollution failure has been its inability to restart the global warming debate. There is ample evidence that we have a long-term global warming problem, and the sooner we address it the better. The old approach, the Kyoto treaty, was never going to be ratified by the Senate. But the administration could have moved aggressively to find another way forward. Instead it proposed a pitiable voluntary program, which has had no effect.
 The administration's biggest success has been its regulation of diesel fuels. In the face of fierce industry hostility, the Bush crowd decided that the benefits of diesel regulation far outweighed the costs. The Bush initiatives were applauded by even its most ardent critics. An official from the Natural Resources Defense Council called the diesel emissions regulations ''the most significant public health proposal in decades.''
 The most ambitious Bush proposal is over the nature of environmental regulation itself. Bush inherited a command-and-control regulatory regime called new-source review, which has metastasized into a regulatory behemoth. Bureaucrats try to issue rules site by site. Industries have a perverse incentive to rely on older high-pollution plants. The review process is opaque, expensive and riddled with litigation.
 The administration is trying to supersede it with a cap-and-trade system, in which the government would set caps on overall emissions, allow companies flexibility on how to meet them and give firms the chance to buy and sell emissions credits. This general approach was recently embraced by a comprehensive study by the National Research Council. It builds on a phenomenally successful cap-and-trade provision in the 1990 Clean Air Act, which controls sulfur dioxide emissions at 25 percent of the cost of the old regulatory system. 
 Nonetheless, for two years Jim Jeffords and a Democratic-led coalition have blocked the Bush initiative. Many Democrats have in the past backed cap-and-trade reforms, but they don't want to allow Bush a victory. This has had several bad effects. The administration has tried to enact the reforms by administrative fiat, which means litigation and delay. More important, it means that there is no discussion or compromise on some remaining points of dispute.
 How high should the caps be? Should we reduce emissions by 70 percent, as Bush wants, or by 90 percent? Would the benefits of that higher standard justify the costs? What about mercury? There are proposals to supplement the cap-and-trade approach with local measures to handle hot spots with high mercury concentrations. These languish during the deadlock. Finally, if utilities were given an incentive to switch to natural gas, would that decimate our coal industry?
 All of these are open questions, which require a balancing of evidence and interests. These are exactly the sort of questions best hammered out through legislative wrangling. But, of course, that's not allowed to happen. 
 This is yet another issue around which it would be easy to build a sensible majority if things were judged on their merits. Instead, we've got paralysis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); DIESEL FUEL (88%); CLIMATOLOGY (86%); GLOBAL WARMING (86%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); LITIGATION (50%) Air Pollution; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Weather; Global Warming; Diesel Power; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Air Pollution

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



437 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: China Lets Cheney Speak on TV But Censors Remarks Afterward

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 19 

 BODY:
Before his high-profile visit to China last week, Vice President Dick Cheney insisted that Beijing leaders allow him to speak, live and uncensored, to the Chinese people.
 After weeks of intense negotiations, Mr. Cheney was granted that measure of openness, but not one millimeter more.
 Anyone who tuned in to CCTV-4, China's all-news television channel, shortly after 10 a.m. on Thursday could watch Mr. Cheney deliver an address to students at Fudan University in Shanghai. A State Department translator provided simultaneous interpretation. 
 But the broadcast received no advance promotion or even a listing in the Chinese news media and was not repeated. The authorities promptly provided leading Web sites with a ''full text'' of the vice president's remarks, including his answers to questions after the speech, that struck out references to political freedom, Taiwan, North Korea and other issues that propaganda officials considered sensitive.
 The censorship showed that even a hopeful sign of political progress in China can be more like a mirage. Officials sought to convey a relaxed attitude about what Mr. Cheney might say in public but worked to alter the record. ''What they do to control the media is sometimes surreal,'' said Yu Maochun, a China expert at the United States Naval Academy who noticed discrepancies between Mr. Cheney's speech and the Chinese transcript. ''Censorship is a habit they can't kick.''
 In a similar sleight of the invisible hand late last year, a government-owned Chinese publisher issued an authorized Chinese version of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's autobiography, ''Living History,'' that changed most of Ms. Clinton's references to her and former President Bill Clinton's visits to China.
 The Chinese company did not notify Ms. Clinton's publisher that it was making any changes to the text, and it was sold as an unabridged translation.
 American officials say that to the best of their knowledge the Chinese side lived up to the letter of their agreement on Mr. Cheney's speech, but expressed frustration that the record was later expunged.
 ''It was extremely important to the White House to have a live and uncensored broadcast,'' said a United States consular official in Shanghai. ''We feel good that we were able to do that.''
 Bush administration officials said they had not negotiated how the Chinese transcript would be handled. When the excised version came to their attention, they worked to prepare their own Chinese version. It was posted on Friday to the American Embassy's Web site, which is not blocked within China.
 Although Mr. Cheney was accorded the trappings of a state visit by a major foreign leader -- motorcades, television coverage and meetings with top officials -- there were no large crowds, and interest among the public most likely was limited to the well informed in urban areas.
 In his speech last Thursday, Mr. Cheney spoke broadly about American foreign policy. But he devoted much of the talk and a subsequent exchange with students to links between political and economic freedom in China, as well as Taiwan, the most delicate topic in United States-China relations.
 The Chinese transcript was prepared by the official People's Daily immediately after the address, and was distributed to newspapers and Web sites across the country. While faithful to most of what Mr. Cheney said, it dropped many references to ''political freedom'' and ''individual freedom.''
 While Mr. Cheney praised ''rising prosperity and expanding political freedom'' across Asia, the official Chinese transcript refers only to ''rising prosperity.'' It drops his statements that ''the desire for freedom is universal'' and that ''freedom is indivisible.''
 It also wiped out any record of what Mr. Cheney had said about the Taiwan Relations Act, an American law mandating that the United States sell Taiwan military equipment so it can defend itself against any attack from the Chinese mainland. China maintains that the act violates agreements with the United States.
 Mr. Cheney said the campaign against terror must not be used to suppress ''legitimate dissent.'' The Chinese, who have battled dissidents in the largely Muslim region of Xinjiang, dropped that phrase.
 The longest elisions involved Mr. Cheney's references to the North Korean nuclear crisis, North Korea's acquisition of nuclear technology from Pakistan and the problem of weapons proliferation generally. China, which has close ties to North Korea, is acting as a broker in negotiations over how to end the North's nuclear arms program.
 The full address was carried live by China Central Television on its Chinese-language news channel and a second channel that broadcasts in English. Although China Central Television is the country's main television news provider, the number of people who watch its specialty news channel during working hours is thought to be quite small.
 The edited text, without indications of editing changes, was posted on the Web sites of People's Daily, the New China News Agency and other online locations.
 An editor at the People's Daily Web site involved with preparing the transcript denied that any censorship had occurred. The editor, who declined to be identified, said missing sentences or sections were attributable solely to the speed with which the transcript had been prepared.
 Administration officials have been on guard against censorship since the visit of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to China in February 2003. State Department officials arranged an interview with Mr. Powell on China Central Television that by diplomatic agreement was to be broadcast unedited, administration officials said. The broadcast nonetheless left out Mr. Powell's references to human rights abuses, among other sensitive issues.
 The consular official said the American side had tried to anticipate how the Chinese might censor Mr. Cheney's remarks but could not prevent all alterations. ''It's a challenge,'' the official said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney speaking to students at Fudan University in Shanghai. The session was broadcast on Chinese television. (Pool photo by Eugene Hoshiko)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (92%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TRANSCRIPTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); LITERATURE (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); NAVIES (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Censorship; Atomic Weapons; United States Foreign Service; Computers and the Internet; Books and Literature; Freedom and Human Rights; Arms Sales Abroad; Law and Legislation; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (55%) Fudan University (Shanghai)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Joseph Kahn; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) China; Taiwan; North Korea; Pakistan; China; Shanghai (China); China

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



438 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: 3M Posts 44% Increase in Profit for First Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The 3M Company, the maker of Scotch tape and Post-it Notes, said yesterday that first-quarter earnings climbed 44 percent as the economic rebound and new products helped increase sales of computer touch screens and safety equipment.
 Net income rose to $722 million, or 90 cents a share, from $502 million, or 63 cents, in the first three months of 2003. Sales increased 14 percent, to $4.94 billion. Second-quarter profit will be 94 cents to 96 cents a share, the company said. It expects 2004 profit of $3.60 to $3.70 a share. 
 The company was expected to report profit of 87 cents in the first quarter, 91 cents in the second quarter, and $3.61 for the year, according to the average estimates of at least 10 analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 It is the third time that the company's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., has raised the 2004 forecast, as cost cuts widen margins and consumers and companies increase spending. Sales are benefiting from new products like Scotchgard mildew cleaner and a film to make cellphone screens brighter. 3M was able to raise prices in the United States last quarter, and sales and profit climbed in all seven business units.
 3M, based in St. Paul, had sales of $4.32 billion in the first quarter of 2003, and net income of 78 cents in the second quarter of last year and $2.02 for all of last year. The company has posted higher sales and earnings for eight consecutive quarters.
 Currency effects increased overall sales by 6.1 percent last quarter, 3M said. The company, which had about 60 percent of sales outside the United States last year, is a bellwether for the world economy because of its diverse product mix and global presence.
 3M has spent more than $1 billion a year on research and development since 1997. It introduced more than 100 products last year and has more than 6,000 patents in the United States.
 Other recent products include Accentrim glass treatments that give the appearance of custom beveled windows, and Post-it Super Sticky Notes. 3M is also seeking approval from the Food and Drug Administration to expand the marketing of its Aldara genital wart cream to treat some skin lesions.
 The company's earnings news failed to greatly lift its shares, which rose 3 cents to close at $83.76. The stock has risen 29 percent in the last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (66%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: 3M CO (98%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Threem (3m) Co

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (98%); MMM (NYSE) (98%); MMM (FRA) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (98%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (98%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (98%)

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



439 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Specter on Same Page When It Comes to Re-election

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, April 19 

 BODY:
Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania has never been President Bush's dream Republican. 
 Mr. Specter, a member of an endangered species of Capitol Hill centrists, did not support Mr. Bush's full tax cut. He voted against removing former President Bill Clinton from office and counts among his supporters such well-known Bush foes as George Soros, the financier, and Harold M. Ickes, Mr. Clinton's onetime deputy chief of staff. 
 Most pointedly, Mr. Specter supports revising parts of the antiterrorism legislation known as the Patriot Act, which Mr. Bush said on Monday must be left intact.
 But never mind. On Monday night in a crowded Pittsburgh convention center, there were Mr. Bush and Mr. Specter side by side, heaping praise on each other as if their political futures depended on it.
 In many ways, they do. 
 Mr. Specter needs the president to support him in his toughest primary challenge since his election in 1980. And Mr. Bush needs Mr. Specter to ensure that he has a veteran Republican in place to try to help him win a critical swing state in November.
 ''I'm here to say it as plainly as I can: Arlen Specter is the right man for the United States Senate,'' Mr. Bush said at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center in downtown Pittsburgh, speaking to a crowd of cheering Republicans who raised $400,000 for Mr. Specter's campaign.
 Mr. Bush added that Mr. Specter was ''a little bit independent-minded sometimes, but there's nothing wrong with that.'' Mr. Specter, the president said, is ''a firm ally when it matters most.''
 Mr. Specter in turn piled accolades on Mr. Bush. ''President Bush's leadership has been tremendous on the war against terrorism,'' Mr. Specter said. He added that Mr. Bush had made a ''courageous stand'' in Iraq, where ''the establishment of a democracy'' will be a ''historic event.'' 
 Mr. Specter is facing Representative Patrick J. Toomey, a conservative who has attacked Mr. Specter as a Ted Kennedy liberal too supportive of abortion rights and the United Nations. ''I represent the Republican wing of the Republican Party,'' Mr. Toomey said recently.
 Mr. Specter has said Mr. Toomey is ''not far right, he's far out.''
 Republican officials said Mr. Bush was inserting himself into a Republican primary campaign, something the White House has done infrequently and with mixed results, because Mr. Specter had a five-term record of success and could help Mr. Bush attract moderates. Bush campaign officials also believe that Mr. Specter would do better than Mr. Toomey against a Democratic challenger in the general election and so would help Republicans hang on to their majority in the Senate.
 Supporting Mr. Specter is not that much of a stretch for Mr. Bush, since Mr. Specter is fairly low on the list of Republican senators who regularly irritate the White House. Mr. Specter is easily outdone by John McCain of Arizona, Chuck Hagel of Nebraska and Trent Lott of Mississippi.
 Perhaps more important, Mr. Specter does not irritate the White House as much as Stephen Moore, president of the antitax group Club for Growth, which happens to be the biggest financial supporter of Mr. Toomey. Mr. Moore has been a frequent critic of Mr. Bush's economic policies, and has angered Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's powerful political aide.
 Earlier on Monday in Hershey, Pa., Mr. Bush called on Congress to renew major provisions of the Patriot Act. ''Congress must give law enforcement all the tools necessary to protect the American people,'' Mr. Bush told a crowd of 2,000 in the Chocolate Ballroom at the Hershey Lodge and Convention Center.
 Although the major provisions of the law do not expire until 2005, Mr. Bush is using his strong support of the act to portray himself as tough on terrorism. The White House goal is to set up a national security debate in an election year with the Democrats, who oppose provisions of the act that they say undermine civil liberties.
 For his part, Mr. Specter said in an interview last week that there had to be more balance between enforcement of the act and civil rights and that he was particularly concerned about a section of the act that gives the F.B.I. greater power to demand records from businesses and institutions like libraries.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Senator Arlen Specter, all differences aside, at the airport yesterday in Harrisburg, Pa. (Photo by Agence France-Presse - Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PATRIOT ACT (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); TERRORISM (62%); ABORTION (50%) Primaries; Elections; Election Issues; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); PAT TOOMEY (79%); GEORGE SOROS (71%); TED KENNEDY (59%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; Arlen (Sen) Specter; Patrick J (Rep) Toomey

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Pennsylvania; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



440 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Accuses Bush of 'Secret Deal' With Saudis on Oil

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and JODI WILGOREN; David M. Halbfinger reported from Atlanta for this article, and Jodi Wilgoren from Florida.

DATELINE: ATLANTA, April 19 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry attacked the Bush administration on Monday for what he called ''a secret deal'' with Saudi Arabia to cut oil prices in time to help the president in the November election.
 Two days after an Israeli missile strike that killed the leader in Gaza of the militant group Hamas, Mr. Kerry also spoke of his record of support for Israel and promised that he would end what he called the United States' ''sweetheart relationship'' with Arab nations that support Palestinian terrorists.
 Campaigning in South Florida before flying to Atlanta to raise money, Mr. Kerry seized upon a new book by the journalist Bob Woodward that recounts an Oval Office discussion of a potential invasion of Iraq. In that discussion, Mr. Kerry said, ''the president, the vice president, the secretary of defense made a deal with Saudi Arabia that would deliver lower gas prices.'' 
 ''But here's the catch,'' Mr. Kerry, the presumed Democratic presidential candidate, said at a gathering in Lake Worth, Fla. ''The American people would have to wait until the election, until November of 2004,'' for the Saudis to lower oil prices.
 ''If this sounds wrong to you, that's because it is fundamentally wrong,'' Mr. Kerry declared before more than 1,000 people at Palm Beach Community College. ''And if, as Bob Woodward reports, it is true that gas supplies and prices in America are tied to the American election, tied to a secret White House deal, that is outrageous and unacceptable to the people of America.''
 The book, ''Plan of Attack,'' quotes Mr. Bush as saying ''I'm worried about the capacity of the oil market'' after an invasion of Iraq, and says the president ''asked about the excess production capacity'' of the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. It says the Saudi Arabian ambassador, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, said his country ''hoped to fine-tune oil prices over 10 months to prime the economy for 2004.''
 ''What was key, Bandar knew, were the economic conditions before a presidential election,'' Mr. Woodward, of The Washington Post, wrote, ''not at the moment of the election.''
 Mr. Kerry noted that he had called for pressing the Saudis to increase the oil supply as part of a broader plan to reduce gas prices. ''Right now,'' he said, ''there are people all over this country who are literally going through their purses and pockets -- looking behind the sofa, under the cushions -- to find the pennies and the extra money to be able to pay the additional costs of gasoline.''
 In a briefing Monday, the White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, said Prince Bandar had visited the White House and pledged to protect the world economy from oil shocks. But he referred questions about whether there was a politically timed deal to Prince Bandar. In an interview on CNN, the prince denied the accusation.
 And Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, said on CNN that ''there was no secret deal,'' adding, ''It seems Senator Kerry is more interested in trying to do book reviews about books he hasn't written.''
 Indeed, Mr. Kerry has been mentioning Mr. Woodward's book at nearly every appearance for the past two days. It is a sharp contrast to last month, when he appeared to be trying to stay out of the way of critical coverage of President Bush's handling of terrorism by refusing for more than a week to comment on ''Against All Enemies,'' the book by the administration's former counterterrorism chief, Richard A. Clarke. 
 The Washington Post and ABC News reported Monday that their new poll found greater public confidence in Mr. Bush's ability to deal with Iraq and terrorism. Mr. Bush was found to have the support of 48 percent of registered voters, compared with 43 percent for Mr. Kerry and 6 percent for Ralph Nader. Five weeks ago the numbers in the same poll were reversed. On the economy, the president pulled even with Mr. Kerry after having trailed by 12 points in March. The margin of sampling error in the latest poll is plus or minus three percentage points.
 Also Monday, at a breakfast fund-raiser in Juno Beach, Fla., Mr. Kerry said he had a ''100 percent record of sustaining the special relationship and friendship with Israel.''
 ''I can guarantee you that, if president, I understand not just how we do that but also how we need to end this sweetheart relationship with a bunch of Arab countries that still allow money to move to Hamas and Hezbollah and the Al-Aqsa brigades,'' he said. ''We a need a president to stand up and lead the world to a more responsible place to create an entity to make peace within the Middle East.''
 Mr. Kerry was joined by Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, a hero among South Florida's elderly Jewish Democrats because of his groundbreaking status as a Jewish vice-presidential nominee in 2000.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry campaigning yesterday in Lake Worth, Fla., where he criticized President Bush's talks with Saudi Arabia on oil prices. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); TERRORISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HAMAS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); WRITERS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); LITERATURE (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Books and Literature; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (58%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) David M Halbfinger; Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Dan Bartlett; Bandar Bin Sultan (Prince); Bob Woodward

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%) SAUDI ARABIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



441 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: North Korean and Chinese Leaders Meet

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 19 

 BODY:
The North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, and President Hu Jintao of China discussed the international crisis over North Korea's nuclear program over lunch here on Monday, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported. It was the beginning of an unannounced four-day visit by the reclusive North Korean leader. 
 The meeting, in China's main government compound in central Beijing, came less than a week after Vice President Dick Cheney made the North Korean crisis a central focus of his visit to Beijing. Mr. Cheney told Mr. Hu that the United States remained committed to a series of six-nation talks sponsored by China but that the process must begin to show ''real results.''
 Mr. Kim, who last came to China in 2001, is also expected to meet with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and to tour a high-tech business park in Beijing, South Korean news organizations said. He is also expected to meet with former President Jiang Zemin, who remains the head of China's military.
 China is North Korea's principal ally, and the United States has urged the Chinese to use their leverage to apply pressure for a breakthrough on the nuclear talks. Mr. Kim is expected to seek economic, energy and food aid, the South Korean news reports said. 
 ''There are little points of pressure that they can apply,'' a Western diplomat said of China's influence with North Korea. ''But I don't think the Chinese necessarily see it as all the problems being on the North Korean side.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%); KIM JONG IL (90%); DICK CHENEY (79%); WEN JIABAO (58%) Kim Jong Il; Hu Jintao (Pres); Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) North Korea; China; Beijing (China)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



442 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: An I.R.S. Promotion for Bush at Tax Time

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
As the deadline for filing tax returns approached, news releases from the Internal Revenue Service included a little something extra, a sentence promoting the administration's tax policies that said, ''America has a choice: It can continue to grow the economy and create new jobs as the president's policies are doing, or it can raise taxes on American families and small businesses, hurting economic recovery and future job creation.''
 ''Stating our position is appropriate,'' said Rob Nichols, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, which oversees the I.R.S. ''The administration's views on fiscal policy are that lower taxes have helped strengthen the economy and led to an environment of increased job creation.'' 
 Earlier this year, the Treasury Department was criticized after its analysis of a tax plan similar to one proposed by Senator John Kerry was used to attack Mr. Kerry as he sought the Democratic nomination for president.
 ''This administration is abusing the public trust and campaigning on the taxpayers' dime,'' Phil Singer, a spokesman for the Kerry campaign, said Monday. The Kerry campaign has started an online petition to protest the White House's use of federal resources for the president's re-election effort.
 The sentence about President Bush's tax policies showed up on four April 9 news releases that were labeled ''April 15th Tax Day Reminders'': ''Treasury and I.R.S. Work To Make Paying Taxes a Little Easier,'' ''The 2001 and 2003 Tax Relief Plans Will Impact Income Tax Returns Filed,'' ''Millions of Individuals and Families Are Benefiting From Tax Relief Plan'' and ''Tax Relief Reinvigorated the U.S. Economy and Is Driving Job Creation.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a sentence promoting the Bush administration's tax policies that was included in four news releases about the April 15 tax deadline misstated the source of the releases. They were from the Treasury Department, not the Internal Revenue Service. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PETITIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ETHICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%) Taxation; Election Issues; Ethics; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Jennifer 8 Lee; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2004



443 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: Europe Borrows A Cup of Inspiration 

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: GREAT MILTON, England 

 BODY:
NEARLY 30 years after California wines showed their stuff to skeptical Europeans at the famous Paris tasting of 1976, a group of ranking chefs, food experts and others from the United States traveled to the English countryside this month for a weeklong effort to convince their French and British counterparts that American gastronomy has also come of age.
 For the most part, they succeeded. After taking part in panel discussions on the state of the restaurant art on both sides of the Atlantic, and tasting the food of chefs like Wylie Dufresne and Thomas Keller, with Alice Waters and Charlie Trotter still to come tomorrow, the Old World was handing out compliments to the New. 
 The gathering, unprecedented in the memory of food journalists, was the brainchild of Raymond Blanc, a French-born British chef whose grand, garden-girded country hotel near Oxford, the Manoir aux Quat'Saisons, has one of Britain's most applauded dining rooms. He spent two years assembling an all-star cast of 100-plus participants for the conference, called "The American Food Revolution," which was designed to celebrate what he described as the maturity, diversity and excitement of American cuisine. 
Among the luminaries on hand were Pierre Troisgros, the avuncular French chef, who recounted the invention in the 1960's of salmon scallops with sorrel sauce, perhaps the most famous nouvelle cuisine dish, making it sound as if it happened yesterday; Heston Blumenthal, the British whiz kid, who described his use of lab gear to produce crisper French fries; and Theodore Zeldin, the great social historian, who called for the reinvention of restaurants as "hives of activity where people interested in painting, literature and other arts can mutually inspire each other" while eating well.
Plenty of Yankee surprises popped up on menus. Charlie Palmer, the proprietor of Aureole in New York and restaurants across the country, even worked peanuts and peanut butter into a sophisticated chocolate dessert that everybody lapped up.
At a time of deep fissures in the Atlantic political and economic alliance, occasioned in part by the war in Iraq, Gerard Errera, the French ambassador to London, opened the proceedings at dinner last Thursday night with the comment, "If we can solve between our three countries the questions of cuisine, then perhaps we can solve everything that divides us."
Mr. Dufresne, the innovative 33-year-old chef of WD-50 in Manhattan, wowed Gary Rhodes, one of the most prominent younger British chefs, with his smoked mashed potatoes and his slow-poached egg in Parmesan broth. "That poached egg," Mr. Rhodes confided to a reporter from The Daily Telegraph, "knocked me sideways."
Paul Bocuse, one of the founders of nouvelle cuisine, told me, "I've eaten marvelous food here." He turned up later, in a gesture of homage, wearing one of the trademark red bow ties of Lee Jones, the Ohio farmer who grows designer vegetables for American chefs.
Daniel Boulud, who grew up near Lyon but has built his career in New York, turned the head of Derek Brown, director of the Michelin guides, who was born in Britain but holds one of the most influential posts in French gastronomy. A dazzling six-course lunch, including unmistakably North American ingredients like Alaska salmon, Meyer lemons, Maryland soft-shell crabs and Oregon morels, prompted murmurs of "delicious, delicious" from the fastidious Mr. Brown, who cleaned his plate every time.
Not everything went smoothly behind the scenes, despite planning worthy of an amphibious invasion. Suspicious British customs officials confiscated meat, cheese and shellfish destined for the gala dinners here, but the chefs substituted and improvised.
A burly kitchen worker from Patrick O'Connell's Inn at Little Washington in Washington, Va., flew in at the last minute with replacement country hams secreted in his luggage, and Thomas Keller of the French Laundry in the Napa Valley brought in suitcases filled with soft-shells that Mr. Boulud later served with an almond custard.
Last-minute menu changes made life difficult for Larry Stone, the highly regarded sommelier at Rubicon in San Francisco, who assembled 180 cases of wine from 30 West Coast producers. Many came from little-known vineyards or are produced in tiny quantities; some had never been poured before in Europe. One big hit with the Europeans was a port-style zinfandel called Off the Charts from the Parker Family Ranch in California's Alexander Valley.
For many of the Americans, the event provided a thrilling affirmation of the work they have been doing in the last few decades, and a chance to counter the widespread European belief that American cuisine consists mainly of Big Macs.
"A few years ago," said Drew Nieporent of the Myriad Restaurant Group (Montrachet, Nobu), "a conference in Europe on the American Food Revolution would have been laughed off stage. No more."
Like Mr. Nieporent, Ruth Rogers, the American-born co-proprietor of London's River Cafe, deemed the opportunity for professional interchange even more important than European recognition of achievements in the United States. She said: "None of us can afford to be self-satisfied now. We all need dialogue, and this is a start."
Although Jacques Pourcel of the Michelin three-star Jardin des Sens in Montpellier said French chefs had little to learn from their American confreres, Gerald Passedat of the two-star Petit Nice in Marseille argued that the French, having taught generations of young Americans, now needed to study what the Americans were doing.
"Unfortunately, we are too rigid," he said. "Food is so central to the French way of life. There are different cultures, different clienteles, as well as intellectual and psychological barriers. But meetings like this will help us to breach them."
Mr. Brown of Michelin added: "The freshness and inventiveness in U.S. food will cross the Atlantic, as so many other elements of your culture have done. When they have been tried and tested, the best will be adopted, I hope, and the second-best rejected. Let's fuse what can be fused, not just anything. Look what's happened in the European wine industry because of developments in the United States and Australia."
One reason for French receptivity to American ideas may well be the daunting problems in their own restaurant industry, caused by a police crackdown on drunk driving (which has saved 1,500 lives in the last year, by government estimate) and what restaurateurs see as punitive fiscal and social policies, including a 35-hour work week, and taxes and social security payments higher than in neighboring countries.
"It is an absolute disaster," said Sir Terence Conran, who runs a number of hugely successful restaurants in England, other European countries and New York, and a well-patronized but struggling pair in Paris. "The French government espouses policies which encourage restaurateurs to be fraudulent because they cannot even hope to survive by being honest."
Several restaurateurs whose places stand atop the French food establishment, including Mr. Pourcel, said they had trouble filling tables even on Easter, traditionally one of the busiest days of the year. Andre Daguin, president of a French hotel and restaurant association, reported that 3,000 restaurants went bankrupt last year.
"Many of our best young people see a lack of freedom to work as they wish, freely and creatively," commented Regis Bulot, president of Relais & Chateaux, the French-based group of luxury hotels and restaurants. "They can go to Orlando, work two jobs, buy a luxury car and do what they like. Some come back, but many don't. As long as we have a mediocre political culture on the left and right in France, this difficulty will continue. We need a new revolution, like 1968."
Later, in conversation, Mr. Dufresne, who with four friends had paid $1,400 for dinner at Tom Aikens in London the night before, offered another diagnosis.
"Cost is the problem everywhere," he said. "Haute cuisine is pricing itself out of the market. We need to do away with all the pomp.Get rid of the white tablecloths, the expensive silverware and the masses of flowers. That style has had its day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: TALK, EAT, TALK, EAT -- A panel discussion, above, at the American Food Revolution conference in Great Milton, England. Right, Daniel Boulud and Patrice Martineau in the kitchen. (Photographs by Toby Wales for The New York Times)(pg. F8); FOOD THINK TANK -- Raymond Blanc, left, and Daniel Boulud meet in England. (Photo by Toby Wales for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); CHEESE (78%); WRITERS (69%); HISTORY (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); WALES (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



444 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Russia to Run 2,500-Mile Oil Pipeline In East Asia 

BYLINE:  By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 17 

 BODY:
A planned pipeline would stretch from Tayshet in the Irkutsk region, a former gulag hub in Russia's Siberian expanse, to Nakhodka, a port on the Sea of Japan, bringing much-needed oil to countries in East Asia.
 But Russia's Nakhodka pipeline represents far more than a $10 billion deal between Russia and Japan, which could take until the end of the decade to complete the pipeline of 2,500 miles, equivalent to the distance between New York and Las Vegas. "It's an Asian pipeline," Semyon Vainshtok, the president of Transneft, Russia's government pipeline monopoly, said. 
 But like every other new oil pipeline in Russia, this one will be built entirely by the government. The Kremlin is reasserting its control over Russia's oil exports, by banning private pipelines, leveraging access to the export network, even arguing that Russia's small- and medium-sized businesses will benefit from continued government control over energy tariffs. 
"There will be no private pipelines," Russia's prime minister, Mikhail Fradkov, said recently, adding that access to the national network should be unrestricted and fair.
Russia's private oil companies, like Lukoil and Yukos, until recently hoped they could build a pipeline from European Russia to Russia's far north port of Murmansk, from which they could send tankers to the United States. 
But this week, Mr. Vainshtok said the route should be changed. And the ability of Russian oil companies to fight back has been hampered by the arrest last fall of Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, the billionaire founder of Yukos, who advocated higher oil exports to the West and agreed last year to send more oil to China. Mr. Khodorkovsky is in jail awaiting trial, in what is widely believed to be a Kremlin-backed campaign to undercut his political ambitions.
The Kremlin views oil exports as a strategic national interest, and private pipelines as a threat. As a result, Mr. Fradkov implied that projects like a Murmansk pipeline might end up exclusively in the hands of Transneft. 
"All oil and gas producers will have access to the pipeline," said Sergei Grigoriev, a spokesman for Transneft in Moscow. But he added, "Russia's pipeline system should remain under government control."
That said, Transneft does not bar other investors from putting money into the Nakhodka pipeline, particularly oil companies seeking access to world markets. "We have private investors who have offered to invest money in the Nakhodka project, private investors from Europe and banks," Mr. Grigoriev said, declining to give names. "The whole world is interested." 
Potentially, the pipeline to Murmansk would export one to two million barrels a day or more, while a pipeline to Nakhodka could handle one million, plus an added 600,000 if an extension is built to China. 
But until those are built, Russia's oil companies must ship increasing quantities of oil by rail. And in making sure the pipeline will be government-owned, the Kremlin is trying to control how much oil is exported. 
"Transneft has brought on a lot of capacity, but it's still not enough," said Bruce Misamore, chief financial officer of Yukos, at this week's Russian Economic Forum in London. Western oil companies, meanwhile, are saying they do not care who owns the pipelines -- as long as the terms of who gets to ship oil are fair and open to everyone. "Open access to pipelines is key," added Sam Laidlaw, executive vice president for business development at ChevronTexaco. 
Russia's Parliament is expected to amend a law on natural monopolies and pass a new "Law on Main Pipelines" this fall. That could shed more light on government policy.
In the meantime, pipeline access will be the government's main lever to control the oil industry, and at the same time aim to help small business by controlling energy tariffs. "For small businesses, private pipelines won't help lower tariffs," Mr. Grigoriev said.
He pointed out that one pipeline run by Lukoil in the republic of Komi charges up to $6 a metric ton, while Transneft's average in Russia is 37 cents. 
Russia's decision to build a pipeline to Japan instead of China is largely political, industry analysts say. 
The pipeline to Nakhodka makes less business sense, since a pipeline to China would probably guarantee bigger demand for oil. "Ultimately, Russia just may not want the Chinese to have the oil," says Paul Collison, oil and gas analyst at UBS Brunswick in Moscow. "Nakhodka seems like the wrong decision, but I can understand politically why Russia wants to build it."
Japan aggressively sought out new sources of oil in Russia, offering to bankroll the construction of the Nakhodka on Russia's Pacific Coast. But the Nakhodka proposal would bring the pipeline only to a port city, while a proposed $3.2 billion Chinese plan would have stretched to yet another oilfield, the Daqing concession in northeastern China. 
The Russian government has never officially stated its final decision -- a pipeline to Japan or to China. And Transneft executives argue that the Nakhodka project has nothing to do with politics -- only economics. "It's a purely pragmatic decision" to build to Nakhodka, instead of to China, Mr. Vainshtok said in London. 
But Russia and Japan are already in serious talks on the Nakhodka project, Japan's foreign minister, Yoriko Kawaguchi, recently told the Russian newspaper Russky Kurier. The two nations have discussed it "during numerous high-level meetings," he said, "and they share an opinion on its strategic importance."
Mr. Collison added: "The Chinese have said they don't think their project has been competitive. And a number of comments seem to indicate that Nakhodka will be the one pipeline -- even though no official decision has been made."
Where does this leave China? The China National Petroleum Corporation, the country's largest oil producer, signed an agreement in March 2003 to import more oil from Yukos. The $150 billion, 25-year agreement was recently sped up, more than doubling the projected rail deliveries to 8.5 million tons in 2005 and 15 million by 2006. Yukos exported about 3 million tons of oil to China last year, accounting for 60 percent of Russia's crude exports to China in 2003.
Meanwhile, the Kremlin is satisfying itself that other Asian nations can buy Russian oil from the Nakhodka pipeline. "It's even possible to sell oil to America as well," Mr. Vainshtok said. 
But most important, the Kremlin keeps its hands on Russia's oil taps. "It's important to control the tempo of the export of oil," the Transneft spokesman added. "You won't find a single government in the world which doesn't control its own oil exports. Private companies can ask for pipelines, but Transneft will build them -- no matter what."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oil from wells like this one in Siberia's Sporyshevskoye oil field is likely to be carried to the port of Nakhodka on the Sea ofJapan through a 2,500-mile pipeline to be built by the end of this decade. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. W1); Semyon Vainshtok, the head of Russia's government-owned pipeline monopoly Transneft, said a pipeline would end at the Sea of Japan. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) Map of Russia highlighting proposed pipeline. (pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (93%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (87%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); UTILITY RATES (67%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (53%) RUSSIA; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

COMPANY: OAO LUKOIL (68%); OAO NK YUKOS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSNEFT 

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (68%); LKOD (LSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) PACIFIC OCEAN (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



445 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Why They Hate Us, Really 

BYLINE:  By Walter Russell Mead; Walter Russell Mead is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of "Power, Terror, Peace and War: America's Grand Strategy in a World at Risk."

 BODY:
For the last five weeks I have been traveling through the Middle East, meeting diplomats, officials, policy experts, military leaders, students and ordinary citizens. I learned something very important: the greatest single cause of anti-Americanism in the Middle East today is not the war in Iraq; more surprisingly, it is not even American support for Israel, per se. Rather, it is a widespread belief that the United States simply does not care about the rights or needs of the Palestinian people.
 "The Palestinian issue is really what discredits the United States throughout the region," a senior Western diplomat with years of experience in the Middle East told me. Or, as one student after another put it after the university lectures I conducted across the region: "Why do Americans have to be so biased?" 
 In Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Turkey and other countries, the large majority of people I spoke with are ready to tolerate the Jewish state -- most even understand that the final boundaries of Israel will include some of the heavily settled areas beyond the pre-1967 borders. They also understand that few if any Palestinians will return to the homes they lost after the war that erupted when Israel declared its independence in 1948. And they are prepared to accept, though not to relish, America's close relations with Israel. Beyond that, they want increased American support for their domestic political reforms and for initiatives to enhance regional cooperation for economic growth and fighting terrorism. 
But one thing sticks in their craw: Why doesn't America care more about the Palestinians' future? 
They have a point. America's Middle East policy is unnecessarily zero-sum. We can be more pro-Palestinian without being less pro-Israeli. Indeed, to the degree that American policies help create support for compromise among Palestinians, pro-Palestinian initiatives can help Israel too. 
Take compensation. United Nations resolutions call for financial compensation for Palestinians who cannot return to their family homes in Israel. Israel's position that it cannot accept millions of refugees and their descendants is reasonable enough, and the Bush administration's support of it is nothing new. But we should be equally clear about compensation. 
Many questions need answering: where can Palestinians go to have their claims for lost property adjudicated and certified? What tribunal will hear these claims? What principles will guide its deliberations? Where will the money come from to pay the claims when peace is finally made? 
The United States can and should take the lead in building an international consensus on the compensation issue and, working with allies in Europe and elsewhere, help raise money to ensure that it is more than a pious wish. 
There is more we can do. Millions of Palestinians are now stateless. (Jordan has integrated the refugees within its borders; other countries have not.) When peace comes, all Palestinians should be citizens of some state with full economic and social rights. The new Palestinian state will need financial help to absorb many of these refugees; and neighboring states who agree to integrate Palestinians should also receive international aid. 
In addition, while many Palestinians are well educated, many others are poor and lack skills. They depend on the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for basic services and support. Who takes the agency's place when peace comes and the Palestinians aren't refugees anymore? 
Taking the lead on these and other issues vital to the Palestinians would not bring quick progress toward peace in the region, nor would it undo overnight the consequences of decades of suspicion and resentment. But it would help to reduce anti-Americanism in the Muslim world and beyond, as well as to advance the cause of peace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); REFUGEES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); JORDAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); ALGERIA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



446 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
BlackstoneExpands Holdings in Long-Term Lodging

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
The Blackstone Group, a private equity firm in New York that recently sold its interests in four luxury hotels in London, is poised to become the dominant player in a fast-growing segment of lodging at the opposite end of the spectrum -- one that barely existed a decade ago. 
 Blackstone agreed last month to pay $3.1 billion to buy Extended Stay America, the nation's largest chain of hotels offering no-frills, low-priced rooms with kitchens to construction workers and other people who are away from home for weeks or even months at a time. 
 The purchase, which is expected to be completed in a few months, will add about 475 hotels under the Extended Stay America flag and two other brands, Studio Plus and Crossland Suites, to Blackstone's extended-stay portfolio, which already includes 132 Homestead Studio Suites.
Extended Stay America and Homestead are the leading chains catering to the lower end of the extended-stay market, where rooms can be had for about $500 a week or far less. Together, the chains make up more than half of this tier, according to Smith Travel Research of Henderson, Tenn. Unlike many other chains, Extended Stay America and Homestead own and operate their hotels. 
In 1995, when Extended Stay America was founded by H. Wayne Huizenga, the former chairman of Blockbuster Entertainment, and his partner, George D. Johnson Jr., who had led Blockbuster's consumer products unit, people on a long-term assignment had few lodging choices other than a regular business hotel, an efficiency apartment, a mom-and-pop hotel or higher-priced extended-stay lodging like Residence Inn, now owned by Marriott.
"In the 90's," said Mark Keiser, a lodging analyst at Bear, Stearns who advised Blackstone on the acquisition, "surveys found there was an enormous demand."
There were people who were staying at limited- or full-service hotels," Mr. Keiser said, "and had been there for weeks on end."
The company has grown rapidly since the first Extended Stay America hotel opened in 1995 in Spartanburg, S.C., where it is based; its 100th hotel opened 21 months after its first. It has 340 hotels under its brand and is in 42 states. Thomas McConnell, a senior managing director at Cushman & Wakefield's Hotels Transactions Group, said that no lodging company had ever built so many hotels so quickly. The company went public in 1996.
Since January 1998, the total number of extended-stay hotels in the lower price range has grown to 1,172 from 476, according to Smith Travel. The other leading brands are Candlewood Suites, owned by Intercontinental Hotels Group, with 110 hotels, and Marriott's TownePlace Suites, with 112 hotels. The average daily rate for this sector in February was $48.01, compared with $94.62 for the higher tier, and $87.21 for the hotel industry as a whole, according to Smith Travel Research. 
Robert I. Bowers Jr., a senior vice president at Smith, said that the higher-priced extended-stay sector consists of 781 hotels, with 89,526 rooms; of these, 436 are Residence Inns.
Like the rest of the industry, Extended Stay America and its competitors suffered lower occupancy rates because of the economic downturn and the terrorist attacks of 2001, with some of the decline attributable to new hotels being completed just as demand was falling off, industry specialists said. The average occupancy rates for this tier of the extended-stay market declined from 74.4 percent in 2000 to 64.4 percent last year. During this period, the lodging industry over all experienced less of a drop in occupancy -- from 63.2 percent occupancy to 59.2 percent -- but the extended-stay hotels filled a higher percentage of their rooms.
In recent years, as investment capital has become less available, the pace of construction has slowed. Last year, there were 3,303 lower-priced extended stay hotels under construction, compared with 4,299 in 2002, according to the Highland Group, a hotel consulting, research and appraisal company in Atlanta. As of December, Extended Stay America said it had 11 hotels in the pipeline. 
As Extended Stay America grew, lodging analysts say, the company did a good job of identifying sites near places that might attract temporary workers, like corporate office parks and training centers. At least 65 percent of the chain's clientele is made up of business customers, many of whom travel from one city to another installing software, building bridges and tunnels, representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency after a disaster or leading training programs, said Michael M. Wilson, the vice president for marketing atExtended Stay America. Others might be people who are relocating and have yet to find permanent housing.
About a third of the chain's customers, however, are people who need long-term accommodations for personal reasons -- because they are remodeling their home, say, or going through a divorce -- or leisure travelers who come with their children, Mr. Wilson said. "That's quite a surprise," he said, "because we are not a family-friendly sort of hotel." 
Unlike chains that cater to families, Extended Stay America hotels have no restaurants, meeting rooms, room service or swimming pools (except in some cases where zoning laws require pools). Studio Plus, a slightly higher-priced chain of 96 hotels that Extended Stay America acquired in 1997, has spas but no pools, Mr. Wilson said.
The chain's rates vary according to region but are typically about $179 a week for its lowest-priced brand, Crossland Economy Studios, to $299 for the highest-priced Studio Plus brand. The company can offer low prices -- even in the New York suburb of Secaucus, N.J., where rooms are available for $439 a week -- because of its low operating costs and lower turnover than traditional hotels. The average stay is 19 days, Mr. Wilson said, but many guests keep their rooms far longer.
In keeping with their spartan image, rooms are cleaned once a week, not every day; newspapers are not delivered to the door; and no points are issued to encourage repeat business. The typical sand-colored hotel in the chain has 110 units, most of them single rooms, and a laundry room with coin-operated machines. All have kitchens with a full-size refrigerator, but no oven or dishwasher, and a bathroom with a counter but no cabinets. 
In its bid for Extended Stay America, Blackstone agreed to pay $19.63 a share, a 24 percent premium over the stock price on the day that the company's board accepted the offer. Blackstone is paying $61,000 a room, less than the replacement cost of $65,000 a room, Mr. Keiser said. In November 2001, Blackstone paid Security Capital Group $740 million -- or $55,000 a room -- for Homestead Village Guest Studios, a chain that built its first extended-stay property in Dallas in 1992, and is now known as Homestead Studio Suites Hotels. Of its 132 properties in 33 states, 21 were acquired in 2002 and 2003.
The bid for Extended Stay America was announced one month before Blackstone and its partner, Colony Capital, agreed to sell the Savoy Group of London, including Claridge's, the Savoy, the Connaught and the Berkeley, to Quinlan Private, a group of real estate investors in Dublin. The price was set at $1.4 billion.
Blackstone executives declined to comment on the pending acquisition of Extended Stay America, but Mr. Keiser said there was still plenty of room for the company to grow, despite its size, by franchising its brand. Other industry specialists agreed that franchising might be a good strategy, but they noted that it could be risky.
"The negative side of owning your own hotels," said Sean Hennessey, a hotel industry consultant, "is that it slows your ability to grow. On the plus side, though, is that you maintain much stronger control over the quality and image and day-to-day operations of the properties."
Industry specialists also said that unlike most hotel chains, which give individual managers discretion in setting rates, rates at Extended Stay America are centrally controlled and uniform for all customers, whether corporate or individual. "That will change under Blackstone," predicted Mark A. Skinner, a partner in the Highland Group, the Atlanta hotel consulting company. "It's a good area to grow revenue."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the pending acquisition of Extended Stay America, the hotel chain, by the Blackstone Group misstated the role of Mark Keiser, a lodging analyst at Bear Stearns, who commented on the deal. While Bear Stearns advised Blackstone, Mr. Keiser did not.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Staying Longer, for Less"The 10 largest operators in the lower-priced end of the extended-stay hotel industry, defined as offering most rooms for $500 a week or less. The largest, Extended Stay America, which also owns both Studio Plus and Crossland Suites, is to be acquired by the Blackstone Group, which already owns Homestead, the second largest. Gray bars indicate properties owned or to be acquired by Blackstone Group Extended Stay AmericaHOTELS: 340ROOMS: 37,692 Homestead Studio SuitesHOTELS: 132ROOMS: 16,842 Candlewood SuitesHOTELS: 110ROOMS: 12,720 TownePlace SuitesHOTELS: 112ROOMS: 11,463 Suburban Extended StayHOTELS: 65ROOMS: 8,793 InTown SuitesHOTELS: 65ROOMS: 8,590 Studio PlusHOTELS: 96ROOMS: 7,722 Villager LodgeHOTELS: 70ROOMS: 7,504 Studio 6HOTELS: 40ROOMS: 5,082 Crossland SuitesHOTELS: 39ROOMS: 5,072 (Source by Smith Travel Research) Chart: "Data Update"Value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate through March. Graph tracks value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate, from 2000 through March 2004. NATIONAL IN BILLIONS MAR. '03: $257.0JAN. '04: 295.9FEB. '04: 303.6MAR. '04: 301.3 (Source by McGraw-Hill Construction/Dodge)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (79%); LODGING (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: EXTENDED STAY AMERICA INC (90%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (84%); RESIDENCE INN (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BLACKSTONE GROUP (X.BGP) 

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (84%); IHG (NYSE) (53%); IHG (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



447 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET-- Midtown Manhattan; 
Offices Rising Across From Library's Lions

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
Construction of a 27-story glass and concrete building has begun at the northeast corner of 42nd Street and Fifth Avenue -- on a lot vacant for more than a decade that once held the mansion in which Edith Wharton made her society debut in 1879.
 The building, whose address will be 505 Fifth Avenue, is being developed on three building lots by Kipp-Stawski, the development and property investment company. It will have about 275,000 square feet of space, mainly offices. 
 By acquiring unused development rights from adjacent properties for about $2.5 million, Dr. Axel Stawski, a partner in Kipp-Stawski, said the company was able to add a floor, the 27th, to the building. 
Kipp-Stawski is not the first developer to have its eyes on those lots, which are two blocks from Grand Central Terminal and diagonally across Fifth Avenue from the main branch of the New York Public Library. "We looked at that site for quite a few years," Dr. Stawski said, "but for various reasons it was inappropriate because we were involved with other construction projects." 
Eventually they bought the land from an entity controlled by Lehman Brothers for about $43 million, he said. The entire project is expected to have a cost of about $140 million. 
In an unusual strategy in today's market, the building is a speculative venture; unlike most developers, who will not build until they have signed up tenants, Kipp-Stawski has started construction without having signed leases from tenants.
"We build first and then we look for tenants," said Dr. Stawski, who was born in Germany, came to the United States in 1971 and earned a Ph.D. in international law from New York University in 1978. "We hope the quality of our buildings will attract the tenants." 
Dr. Stawski drew a distinction between this approach and that of developers of properties like the one the Durst Organization plans to build a block west, at 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas. It will be a 2.1-million-square-foot building with the Bank of America as the anchor tenant. 
"Buildings that are preleased require a fairly large tenant, and those tenants characteristically plan several years ahead," Dr. Stawski said. "We don't accept such tenants, nor will we, because large tenants tend to move out in a down market, and that's not a risk we're willing to take."
Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates has designed 505 Fifth Avenue, and the contractor is Pavarini McGovern. "What's really special about this site in New York," said Paul Katz, the Kohn Pedersen Fox principal in charge of the project, "is that most smaller buildings tend to be enclosed by the neighboring blocks. But this building opens out and has a wonderful vista over one of the most important intersections, 42nd Street and Fifth Avenue, and one of the greatest buildings, the New York Public Library." 
The lot has been vacant since the 1990 demolition of the six-story former mansion of Levi P. Morton, who had been both governor of New York and vice president of the United States from 1889 to 1893. 
In the 1980's, the Touko America Company, a subsidiary of the Touko Haus development company of Tokyo, planned to build an office tower on the site. But when the real estate market collapsed in the early 1990's and Japan underwent a recession, Touko lost the properties and its $41 million investment.
Paul N. Glickman, the executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, the agent for the building, said that the lot had subsequently traded hands many times.
The building is expected to be ready for tenants to start their interior work in late 2005 or early 2006. There will be about 20,000 square feet of retail space in the building's ground floor, first floor and basement, said Robert K. Futterman, chief executive of the concern that bears his name, who represents the retail portion of the building.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kohn Pedersen Fox is the architect for 505 Fifth Avenue, which is at the corner of 42nd Street. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (79%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); LIBRARIES (68%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; MANHATTAN (NYC) 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); KOHN PEDERSEN FOX ASSOCIATES PC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: KIPP-STAWSKI 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



448 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Federal Oceans Commission Finds Decline Along Coasts 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20 

 BODY:
The first major federal assessment of the oceans in a generation endorsed on Tuesday the gloomy scientific view of the nation's deteriorating coastal waters and offered a mosaic of 250 recommendations to reverse the decline, including a call for local and international action to curb the overfishing that has depleted fish stocks worldwide. 
 The report, by a commission whose 16 members were appointed by President Bush, also suggested increasingly stringent curbs on nutrient-rich runoff pollution that threatens to strangle the ecosystems of the Chesapeake Bay and creates a huge seasonal "dead zone" where the Mississippi River empties into the Gulf of Mexico. 
 "Our oceans and coasts are in serious trouble," the commission's chairman, Adm. James D. Watkins, a former chief of naval operations, said at a news conference here on Tuesday. 
Admiral Watkins described the existing management system as "a byzantine patchwork" of federal and state agencies and local fishing councils that "is simply not up to the task" of reversing degradation. 
He called for "ecosystem-based management" in local and regional decision-making, which would mean abandoning practices like assessing the prospects and perils of each species or habitat individually. 
The panel recommended establishing a trust fund that would draw up to $4 billion a year from royalties from offshore energy exploration. It also asked for a doubling of federal research spending, to $1.3 billion a year.
The report suggested that the powerful local and regional fisheries management groups be forced to follow the guidance of their scientific advisers on setting limits on fishing stock. And it recommended regulating the growing business of fish farms, making them get permits before operating and requiring them to contribute "a reasonable portion" of their proceeds to the government.
Most of the recommendations called for actions that would need approval by Congress or the president, including seeking to end the country's 22-year-old refusal to officially join the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, an international compact governing use of the oceans. 
To elevate the issue of ocean management and streamline interagency coordination, the commission urged Congress to create a National Oceans Council, made up of cabinet secretaries heading the relevant executive-branch agencies.
The oceans commission, a largely Republican group of scientists, businessmen and government officials, stopped short of endorsing some stringent controls suggested in a private study sponsored by the Pew Commission last year. That report recommended controls on bottom fishing, zoning sections of the ocean for limited uses and creating a web of "marine protected areas."
In a statistical portrait of the land and water on either side of the shore, the new federal report noted that "in the last 30 years, more than 37 million people, 19 million homes and countless businesses have been added to coastal areas," although the proportion of the United States population living in counties that are part of a coastal watershed has decreased slightly, to 51 percent, in the same period. 
As for coastal industries, recreation has been lapping the field in the past decade, almost doubling its economic output, to $59.4 billion in 2000 from $29.9 billion in 1990, the report said. The commercial fishing industry'stotal value exceeds $28 billion annually, it added, and recreational saltwater fishing is valued at $20 billion.
The report did not dwell on the specifics of the depletion of ocean resources, which have been widely reported elsewhere. For instance, a year ago, a study published in the journal Nature reported that the spread of industrial-scale commercial fishing over the past half-century resulted in a 90 percent decline in the large fish at the top of the ocean food chain, including the cod that is part of New England's identity. 
The new report accepted the implications of these earlier conclusions. And interest groups ranging from commercial fishermen to the White House to some large environmental groups have embraced the report, although most offered some qualifications.
Linda Candler, a spokeswoman for the National Fisheries Institute, representing commercial fishing groups, said in an interview: "We are generally pleased with most of the recommendations. We are genuinely pleased that the commission recognizes that fishing is not the only human impact on our oceans."
John Adams, the president of the Natural Resources Defense Council, a major environmental group, said in an interview that he welcomed the report and would not dwell on any differences he had with specific recommendations. "The overall message," Mr. Adams said, "is that there's a crisis out there. And it's a very important crisis because we're losing a food supply and a huge economic base for this country."
James L. Connaughton, chairman of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, said in an interview that he rejected the idea that joining the international sea compact would be a problem for the White House, even though several conservative senators strongly oppose the move.
"President Bush has put the treaty on the top priority list for ratification, Mr. Connaughton said, adding, "We're working hard with the Congress to assuage their concerns" on issues of intelligence gathering and national security.
David Sandalow, a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution who was assistant secretary of state for oceans, environment and science in the Clinton administration, termed the panel's report "striking."
"This is a Bush-appointed, Republican-leaning commission," Mr. Sandalow said, "that's come out with fairly strong recommendations -- for new funding, for focusing federal efforts. And an encyclopedia of strong new ideas."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Coastal Pollution Around the U.S."The condition of the coastal waters of the United States, by region. The Southeast coast received the best rating. Maps of the United States rates the waters of the Northeast, Great Lakes, Southeast, Gulf Coast, and West as: POORFAIRGOOD (Source by Environmental Protection Agency, National Coastal Condition Report II)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); OCEANS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); LAW OF THE SEA (78%); FISHES (78%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (77%); FISHERIES (77%); AQUACULTURE (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (73%); NAVIES (73%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (72%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); FINFISH FARMING (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); ROYALTIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



449 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 929 words

PERSON: J. Max Bond Jr. 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Breaking Molds, and Then Designing New Ones

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
NOT long before he graduated from Harvard with a master's degree in architecture, J. Max Bond Jr., whose firm Davis Brody Bond was named associate architect for the ground zero memorial last week, recalls being chummily taken aside by one of the gurus of Harvard's architecture program and receiving an unfriendly shock. The professor advised him to exit the architect business before he'd even dipped his toe in it. Talent and intelligence weren't his liability; toe color was. 
 African-American architects of note, the professor casually informed him, were virtually nonexistent. A bright young man like him--he had a diploma from Booker T. Washington High School in Atlanta at 13 and entered Harvard at 16--would do himself a favor by picking another profession and chasing a different dream. Just another case of life not being all that fair in the late 50's, not even for the trilingual (English, French and Spanish) son of a pair of progressive Southern educators who raised him to believe that there were no limits. It was in Tuskegee, Ala., that he first became intrigued by large-scale architecture: the objects of his attention were warehouses for World War II fighter planes. 
 Mr. Bond, now 68 and a bit of a graying guru himself, elected not to take the professor's advice and segregate himself from the unfair side of life. Just as he elected not to take the hint when a cross was burned on the lawn in front of his dormitory in the spring of his freshman year at Harvard. Beneath that crisply pressed lavender shirt lurks a steel spine: 50 years removed from the insults, he does not excuse them, but he comes close to laughing them off. Certainly he has outgrown them. Besides, how could his Harvard professor not have known that the institution's own library was built by a black architect, Julian Abele? That still stumps him. 
"Welcome to Harvard," says Mr. Bond, contemplatively, which is how he says most things. Hilarity and irony aren't his style. His manner is professorial; no wonder, as he had spent six years as dean of the School of Architecture and Environmental Studies at City College and has also been chairman of Columbia University's Graduate School of Architecture and Planning. 
But he evidently bears his alma mater no great grudge: his college became his client when he was hired to renovate the Harvard Club in Manhattan, an official New York City landmark. He says it came as no surprise that the old diversity bugaboo cropped up at blueprint time: the club's facilities for women were woefully inadequate because, of course, women were not on the original membership list. These "subliminal slights conveyed by the architecture," as Mr. Bond refers to them, have been noted and corrected. He took pleasure in the process. 
At least he felt welcome when he became Davis Brody Bond's first and only black partner (he admits he'd love to see that second thing change) in 1990 after his partner, Don Ryder, retired from their own firm, Bond Ryder & Associates, after two decades. "Architecture was and remains one of the more segregated professions," he says, "and too much of architecture is sort of dictatorial. Certain architectural decisions have a larger economic and social impact than people realize."
Cases in point: At the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem, he used sapele, a wood from Africa, for the interior paneling. At the Martin Luther King Jr. Center in Atlanta, he used wood indigenous to the South and, in deference to the wishes of Dr. King's parents and widow that the memorial not be intimidating, the only "fancy" material is the marble of the crypt. For his first widely recognized project, the Bolgatanga Library in Ghana, he experimented with a parasol-shaped roof that made it possible for the library to protect its collection even if its air-conditioning faltered. He spent four years in Ghana and both his children were born there.
HE is perched on a red chair in his office at 315 Hudson Street, where the river provides a protean backdrop and his favorite photograph of Miles Davis, a haunting candid by Frank Stewart, hangs at eye level across from his desk. His bookcase and files take up an entire wall, and he anticipates that the World Trade Center memorial will generate another wall's worth of paperwork. Mr. Bond is partner-in-charge of a pool of 20 Davis Brody Bond professionals who will work with the memorial's creators, the architect Michael Arad and the landscape architect Peter Walker.
Mr. Bond stresses this is a collaboration, not a takeover. "We're not coming in as critics," he says. "And we're not particularly diva-ish. Our objective is to take their concept and figure out how to realize it, to keep the design's integrity intact but also figure out all these problems, everything from infrastructure to security to lighting to fountains to the hardware on the doors. It's a wonderful opportunity to implement something that is going to carry great historical and emotional meaning." 
He was delighted when Mr. Arad won the competition with "Reflecting Absence." Mr. Bond said, "So many young people died in the twin towers that day, that it seemed wonderful to me that the memorial competition was won by a young designer." 
Mr. Bond, who is on the quiet side, -- no flashy hobbies -- lives in Washington Heights with his wife, Jean Carey Bond. He does not go by his first name, which happens to be James, and that's just as well. "The last time I had a martini was 25 years ago," he says. "I drank two, and when I went to stand up, I couldn't get out of my chair."

GRAPHIC: Photo: J. MAX BOND JR. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); MULTILINGUALISM (67%); WORLD WAR II (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Architecture 

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



450 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Fees Help Lift Banks' Profits In FirstQuarter 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Wells Fargo & Company, the Bank One Corporation and U.S. Bancorp said yesterday that first-quarter profits rose as fees from credit cards, bank accounts and consumer loans bolstered revenue.
 Wells Fargo, the nation's fifth-biggest bank, based in San Francisco, said net income increased 18 percent to $1.77 billion. Chicago-based Bank One, the sixth-biggest United States bank, recorded a 51 percent increase in net income to $1.2 billion. Seventh-ranked U.S. Bancorp, based in Minneapolis, said first-quarter net income rose 14 percent to a record $1 billion. 
 Nine of the nation's 10 largest banking companies -- including Citigroup, the world's biggest financial company by assets, and the Bank of America Corporation, the biggest United States consumer bank -- have reported higher profits in the quarter. Tax cuts and a rising stock market have encouraged consumer spending and borrowing, buoying bank revenue.
 Fears over interest rates kept the three companies' shares in check yesterday. Wells Fargo shares fell 55 cents, to close at $56.36. Bank One fell $1.27, or 2.5 percent, to $50.29, and U.S. Bancorp fell 16 cents, to $25.83.
 Wells Fargo's net income increased to a record $1.03 a share, from $1.49 billion, or 88 cents a share, a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected it to report earnings per share of 98 cents. Revenue rose 7 percent, to $7.1 billion, from a year earlier.
 Noninterest income rose 9 percent to $3.1 billion, driven by higher revenue from deposit service charges, investment fees and credit card charges. Net interest income, which the bank makes from lending, increased 5 percent to $4.05 billion.
 Bank One, which will be bought by J.P. Morgan Chase for $55 billion this summer, said net income rose to $1.09 a share, from $818 million, or 71 cents a share. Card services profit gained 29 percent, to $319 million. Excluding some investment and commercial-banking gains, the company would have had a profit of 87 cents a share. On that basis, Bank One was expected to earn 81 cents, the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 U.S. Bancorp profit rose to 52 cents a share, from $884.8 million, or 46 cents a share, a year earlier. That was higher than the 51-cent average forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); U S BANCORP (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%)

ORGANIZATION: WELLS FARGO & CO (WFC); U.S. BANCORP 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); WFC (NYSE) (95%); USB (NYSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



451 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Arbitrators Find Merrill Was Biased Against Women
Merrill Lynch & Company, the nation's biggest brokerage firm, discriminated against women who worked as stockbrokers, according to a panel of arbitrators who awarded $2.2 million to one of them.
 The decision was the first legal ruling to find that a Wall Street firm engaged in systematic discrimination. It could be used to bolster the claims of about 40 current and former Merrill brokers who have not settled their discrimination claims against the firm. Merrill has already paid out more than $100 million in class-action settlements. Page A1. 

Motorola Earnings More Than Triple
Motorola said profits in the first quarter more than tripled because of a rebound in cellular phone sales. C10.

Lucent Technologies, the telecommunications equipment maker, posted a profit for its fiscal second quarter. C4.

G.M. Results Exceed Expectations
General Motors reported a decline in first-quarter profit, but the results were much better than expected, driven by a record performance in its financing business, surging Asian auto sales and a shrinking tax bill. In light of those factors, the company raised its profit estimate for the full year, to $7 a share from a previous range of $6 to $6.50 a share. C4.

Three large banks, Wells Fargo, Bank One and U.S. Bancorp, said first-quarter profits rose as fees from credit cards, bank accounts and consumer loans bolstered revenue. C13.

Pfizer Inc., the drug maker, said its quarterly profit fell. But acquisitions helped fuel a 47 percent rise in revenue. C17.

Top Editor of USA Today Resigns
Karen Jurgensen, the top editor of USA Today since 1999, resigned, citing a failure to intercept repeated fabrications in articles by Jack Kelley, a former foreign correspondent. A1.

Ex-Air Force Official Pleads Guilty
A former top official of the United States Air Force pleaded guilty to conspiracy for discussing a job with Boeing while still overseeing its business dealings with the Air Force. C4.

US Airways Board Weighs Changes
A day after the resignation of the chief of US Airways, the airline's board approved a framework for a streamlining program that includes concessions by its labor unions, people briefed on the board's action said. C4.

MCI Emerges From Bankruptcy
MCI shed the name WorldCom as it emerged from 21 months of bankruptcy protection, the largest corporate bankruptcy case in United States history. C13.

Former Secretary Is Found Guilty
A former Goldman Sachs secretary in London, Joyti De-Laurey, was found guilty of embezzling at least $7 million from her bosses in an elaborate fraud in which she secretly wired blocks of money to bank accounts in Cyprus. The judge in the case called her behavior so despicable he refused to grant her bail before a sentencing hearing. C4.

Stocks Fall on Interest Rate Fears
Stocks tumbled on comments by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. The Dow shed 123.35 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 10,314.50. The Nasdaq composite index sagged 41.80 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,978.63. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 17.67 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,118.15. C13.

Hopes for a Turnaround at Alitalia
As it hovers near bankruptcy, Alitalia, Italy's flagship air carrier, gave some hints of a turnaround plan. World Business, Section W.

Rising From a Vacant Midtown Lot
Construction of a 27-story building has begun at 42nd Street and Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, on a lot that has been vacant for more than a decade. Commercial Real Estate. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,314.50 down 123.35Nasdaq composite -- 1,978.63 down 41.8010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.46% up 0.07The euro -- $1.909 down 0.0112The dollar -- 108.38 yen down 0.42 Graph tracks the daily closing price of General Motors shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); VERDICTS (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); AIR FORCES (86%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (85%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (79%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); EMBEZZLEMENT (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); CONSPIRACY (69%); SALES & SELLING (69%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%); APPROVALS (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); AIRLINES (66%); CONSUMER LENDING (65%); SENTENCING (63%); JUDGES (62%); BAIL (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (93%); PFIZER INC (82%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (71%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); U S BANCORP (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); WELLS FARGO & CO (55%); BOEING CO (53%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (82%); PFEB (BRU) (82%); PFE (NYSE) (82%); VZC (LSE) (71%); VZ (NYSE) (71%); ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); USB (NYSE) (67%); GS (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%); WFC (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); LCC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (71%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



452 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Tops Expectations, but Profits Decline 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 20 

 BODY:
General Motors reported a decline in first-quarter profit on Tuesday, but the results were better than expected, driven by a record performance in its financing business, surging Asian auto sales and a shrinking tax bill in the United States.
 In light of those factors, the company raised its profit estimate for the full year, to $7 a share from a previous range of $6 to $6.50 a share. 
 In the first quarter, G.M. had net income of $1.28 billion, or $2.25 a share, compared with $1.48 billion, or $2.71 a share, in the period a year earlier. Last year, the sale of an armored military vehicle division added $505 million to G.M.'s net income. Excluding that sale,the company would have earned $1 billion, or $1.84 a share, in the first quarter of 2003. 
 Analysts had expected earnings of about $1.79 a share for the quarter, according to Thomson First Call.
 Shares of G.M. rose $1.62, or 3.5 percent, to $47.77. 
 G.M., the largest automaker in the nation and the world, still faces considerable challenges in its two biggest markets, North America and Europe. 
 The company also spent $200 million more than it expected to cover the cost of recalls in the first quarter. In the United States, the company has recalled more cars and trucks this year than it did in all of 2003, undercutting progress made in industry quality surveys in recent years. 
 "We're not happy at all with the level of recalls," said John M. Devine, G.M.'s chief financial officer. "We think it doesn't reflect the current levels of quality we have on our products, but we're addressing them as quickly as we see them."
 "It does impact our profitability," he added. 
 The company's revenue rose 1.3 percent, to $47.78 billion for the quarter.
 Worldwide market share was 13.7 percent, up from 13.6 percent a year earlier. There were no special items in the quarter. 
 G.M. saved $65 million on its worldwide tax bill in the quarter, largely because of Medicare legislation passed last year that has the government helping G.M. and other companies pay the cost of prescription drugs for retirees. 
 The new law reduced G.M.'s future health care liability for retirees to $63.4 billion from $67.5 billion as of the end of last year. Because the government is providing the benefit tax free, and because G.M.'s health care liability is so large, it reduces G.M.'s overall effective corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 26 percent. 
 G.M. spends about $1,400 a vehicle on health care in the United States -- more than steel -- a significant disadvantage in competing with automakers based in countries with nationalized health care systems. Though Toyota and Honda -- G.M.'s more profitable competitors -- assemble many vehicles in plants in the United States, they have much younger work forces and almost no retirees. By comparison, G.M. pays health care benefits for 1.2 million workers, retirees and family members in this country. 
 "It's a nice benefit," Mr. Devine said, "but it only accrues to those of us carrying a lot of weight on our shoulders."
 Gary Lapidus, a analyst at Goldman Sachs who has a cautious outlook on the company, has referred to the domestic automakers as "H.M.O.'s with wheels" because of the health care costs. 
 But in a note to investors on Tuesday, he said G.M. "trounced" his expectations for the quarter. Among other things, he said he was pleased that the company was not leaning as heavily on its mortgage lending business. 
 "China has the potential for significant near-term earnings upside," he said, "North America is holding ground, and the company did not rely on mortgage." 
 The General Motors Acceptance Corporation, G.M.'s financing services division, made more money financing auto purchases than it did from its mortgage business, a reversal from the period a year earlier. G.M.A.C. continues to be G.M.'s most profitable business; the division reported net income of $786 million, up from $699 million. 
 "The only wrinkle appears to be Europe," Mr. Lapidus said. 
 Losses at G.M.'s extensive European operations increased to $116 million from $65 million in the quarter a year earlier. 
 "What's happening in Europe is certainly a slower recovery than we had hoped to see from an economic standpoint, and our own share and profitability is still limited," Mr. Devine said. 
 G.M. hopes for help from its new Opel Astra, which started arriving at dealerships in March. The Astra, a compact hatchback, might seem Lilliputian in the United States compared with G.M.'s Hummers and Chevrolet Suburbans but competes in the heart of the European vehicle market.
 "We think the full-year impact of the Astra will make a significant difference in both our sales outlook and our profitability," Mr. Devine said. 
 In the United States, the most lucrative auto market in the world, a glut of products, as well as high levels of rebates and zero percent financing, continues to sap profits. North American automotive results fell to $451 million from $548 million in the quarter a year earlier. 
 G.M. held its market share steady in the United States but relied more on sales to corporate and government fleets, a less lucrative business than retail sales. 
 Improvements in Asia made up ground for weakening results elsewhere. Driven by surging demand in China, earnings in the Asia Pacific region jumped to $275 million from $75 million.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Driving Strong"General Motors reported better-than-expected first-quarter profit and total automotive earnings despite a widening loss in Europe and weakening results in North America. REGION: North America1ST QTR. EARNINGS (MILLIONS)2003: +$5482004: +451 REGION: Asia Pacific1ST QTR. EARNINGS (MILLIONS)2003: +752004: +275 REGION: Latin America, Africa, Middle East1ST QTR. EARNINGS (MILLIONS)2003: -122004: +1 REGION: Europe1ST QTR. EARNINGS (MILLIONS)2003: -652004: -116 REGION: Total automotive1ST QTR. EARNINGS (MILLIONS)2003: +5462004: +611 (Source by Company report) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); MEDICARE (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (65%); PRODUCT RECALLS (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP (GM) 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: JOHN M DEVINE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



453 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Oil-for-Food Inquiry Wins Russian Backing; Volcker to Take Over 

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 20 

 BODY:
Russia has dropped its objection to a proposed investigation of the scandal-ridden United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq, clearing the way for Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, to take up his post as chairman of the inquiry on Wednesday.
 The allegations of corruption and cover-up have damaged the reputation of the United Nations just as it is being asked to take the lead in shaping the interim government that is to take power in Iraq on June 30 and to assist the country in planning elections and drawing up a constitution. 
 Critics of the United Nations have said the charges raise questions about the fitness of the organization for the Iraqi assignment and cast doubt on the willingness of Secretary General Kofi Annan to permit a thorough investigation. 
According to a report last month by the General Accounting Office in Washington, Saddam Hussein's government pocketed more than $10 billion from the program between 1997 and 2002.
An accusation that United Nations officials themselves might have benefited emerged in February when documents from Iraqi ministries reportedly cited Benon V. Sevan, a career United Nations official who led the program, as having accepted oil allotments himself. He denied the charges in a written statement.
ABC News reported Tuesday that a letter it had obtained from the Iraqi Oil Ministry described Mr. Sevan as giving directions indicating which company should handle his personal oil deal, estimated to be worth as much as $3.5 million. Two other people identified only as "senior U.N. officials" were suspected of taking "multimillion-dollar bribes," ABC reported.
Responding to the news report, Stephane Dujarric, a United Nations spokesman, said Tuesday night, "An extremely important aspect of the U.N.'s inquiry is to investigate allegations against any U.N. officials."
That inquiry begins officially on Wednesday with the formal appointment of Mr. Volcker, 67, along with Mark Pieth, 50, a Swiss law professor with expertise in investigating money laundering and economic crime, and Richard J. Goldstone, 65, a South African judge who served as prosecutor for the International Criminal Tribunals for the Former Yugoslavia.
They were appointed last week, but the nominations stalled Friday when Russia said it would not agree to a Security Council resolution that Mr. Volcker said he needed to give him the necessary authority. The other veto-bearing members -- Britain, China, France and the United States -- said the resolution was acceptable to them.
Mr. Annan interceded over the weekend, placing a telephone call to Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, who until last month was the country's ambassador to the United Nations. On Monday, Russia withdrew its opposition, and a vote on the resolution is scheduled for Wednesday.
The scandal was first reported in January by a Baghdad newspaper, which published a list of prominent people and businesses that it said had illegally profited from the program. In a statement at the time, Moscow denied any wrongdoing by Russians.
The Security Council began the oil-for-food program in December 1996 to enable Iraq to sell oil to ease the impact of the sanctions imposed after the Persian Gulf war of 1991. The proceeds were to go to the purchase of food and other goods, but they ended up financing payoffs, favoritism and kickbacks with systematic smuggling, illegal surcharges and inflated port fees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCANDALS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); BRIBERY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); JUDGES (70%); VETO (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



454 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: NextWave Pact With F.C.C. Ends Airwave Dispute 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20 

 BODY:
The government forged an agreement with NextWave Telecom Inc. on Tuesday that will free valuable airwave licenses vital to improving the nation's cellphone system.
 The agreement, announced by the Federal Communications Commission and approved by the Justice Department, provides a windfall potentially worth billions of dollars to NextWave, which has battled the government over the licenses for nearly eight years. The company, which has been in bankruptcy protection since 1998 and has no other significant assets, will be allowed to keep some of the most valuable of the disputed licenses in the largest cities. 
 The agreement ends a fierce legal, regulatory and political battle over the licenses that NextWave won in 1996 but never paid for. It will return to the commission more than 75 percent of the licenses that for years have gone unused. They will be re-auctioned, a process that ultimately could be a significant benefit to phone users. 
The government will also receive $1.1 billion on top of the $500 million down payment it received years ago from NextWave, and could get additional money if NextWave sells its remaining licenses at sufficiently high prices.
The settlement will relieve overcrowded airwaves, which have either made it difficult to complete calls or resulted in a high number of dropped calls, especially in the biggest cities. For years, the nation's largest phone companies have been clamoring for more licenses to make greater use of the spectrum. The problems have worsened as consumers are increasingly turning to the airwaves for browsing the Internet from handheld and laptop computers and for transmitting e-mail messages and other data. 
"After eight long years, we can finally end the litigation and begin the innovation," said Michael K. Powell, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. "This landmark agreement takes valuable spectrum resources out of the courts and will put it in the hands of consumers who can finally use it."
The settlement is also a significant victory for NextWave. The company will be able to erase its debts to the government and retain licenses in many of the largest and most lucrative markets, including Baltimore, Boston, Detroit, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia and Washington.
Those licenses were valued at $7.2 billion in an auction in 2000 that was nullified last year by the United States Supreme Court, according to Douglas P. Teitelbaum, one of NextWave's largest investors and a managing principal of Bay Harbour Management, an investment firm specializing in distressed securities. He played a leading role in negotiating the deal on behalf of the company. Some analysts said that because of market declines, the licenses are now valued at less than half that amount.
"This deal is a win-win for everybody," Mr. Teitelbaum said on Friday from his cellphone in Midtown Manhattan during a call that was dropped once before being completed. "The F.C.C. will get to auction off licenses that are vital to the economy. We get to hold licenses in cities such as New York, Philadelphia, Detroit, Baltimore, Washington and Boston."
Analysts expect that NextWave will sell those licenses, but it is also possible that the company will lease them or act as a wholesaler and sell space on the airwaves to the cellphone providers.
The agreement resolves one of the longest running and lucrative lobbying and legal battles in the telecommunications industry.
"This is telecom's version of 'Bleak House,' which is to say the litigation has gone for so long that it's hard to remember what it was about," said Blair Levin, an analyst at Legg Mason and former senior official at the F.C.C. "The great irony is that mistakes were made by every party. The government made some mistakes. The parties themselves made some bad calculations. Yet competition in the wireless sector has done well." 
NextWave was founded in 1995 by Allen B. Salmasi, a former top executive at Qualcomm, and financed by a group of veterans of Drexel Burnham Lambert, the defunct investment banking firm, and a group of hedge funds. A year later, NextWave won the licenses in two auctions under a plan in which it agreed to pay $4.7 billion over 10 years. 
But the company said the licenses were devalued by later F.C.C. auctions. It refused to pay for them and sought bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11. A stream of litigation and lobbying by the company and industry rivals ensued. 
The government ultimately confiscated the licenses, and resold them in an auction in 2000 for about $16 billion. The biggest winner was Verizon, which bought $9 billion in licenses. Other winners included business partners of AT&T Wireless, Cingular, VoiceStream and Sprint.
But NextWave challenged the auction and said that federal bankruptcy law prohibited the F.C.C. from taking the licenses back. When the Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, Mr. Powell reached a preliminary deal to settle the dispute that failed after Congress refused to adopt the necessary legislation to put it in place. (No such legislative action is required for the deal announced today.) The court ultimately concluded that the F.C.C. violated bankruptcy law by taking the licenses and auctioning them again.
The long-running fight has yielded millions of dollars in fees to lobbyists and lawyers and also provoked a significant political battle in which both sides raised huge sums of money for many of Capitol Hill's top lawmakers.
Lawyers and lobbyists working for NextWave over the years have included Theodore B. Olson, who is now solicitor general; Haley Barbour, the new governor of Mississippi; and Robert L. Livingston, the congressman who was elected House speaker butresigned before taking the post. Their opponents included a battery of lawyers and lobbyists on the payroll of the nation's telephone companies. They included James Cicconi, a former top aide to the first President Bush; Anthony Podesta, brother to one of President Clinton's chiefs of staff; and the firm formerly headed by Nicholas E. Calio, who also worked for the first President Bush.
Executives in the cellphone industry praised the settlement.
"The Department of Justice, Chairman Powell, and his colleagues at the F.C.C. should be applauded for clearing up these unsettled issues and finally bringing to an end the eight years of uncertainty regarding the use of this valuable spectrum," said Steve Largent, president and chief executive of the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association, the industry's main trade organization. "It is great news for American consumers that the wireless industry can now put this extremely valuable spectrum to use in delivering innovative, competitive services to urban and rural areas." 
One of the breakthrough steps leading to today's agreement was a recent deal that NextWave reached with Cingular. Earlier this year, the company closed a $1.4 billion agreement to sell 17 percent of the licenses to Cingular in a transaction in which more than $700 million was turned over to the government and more than $600 million went to NextWave.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); LITIGATION (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (65%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%); HARBORS & PORTS (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%) NEXTWAVE TELECOM INC (X.NWV) 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



455 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Pentagon Prepares Plans For New Troops in Iraq
The Pentagon has drawn up plans to send fresh troops quickly to Iraq in case it decides it must keep 135,000 or more American troops deployed beyond July, senior officials said. The plans were driven partly by the lack of new foreign troops and the unexpected difficulties of training Iraqi forces. A1

Three car bombs exploded in front of Iraqi police stations in the southern city of Basra, killing about 20 people and wounding more than 60, according to police and witnesses. One of the blasts hit a school bus. A1

Two American generals warned that the occupation authority's policy of barring former Baath Party members from government jobs was self-defeating and was breeding resentment against the American-led efforts in the country. A11

A tenuous peace deal between the American occupation and the embattled city of Falluja got off to a slow and, at times, chaotic start. A10

Oil-for-Food Inquiry to Begin
Russia has dropped its objection to a proposed investigation of the United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq, clearing the way for the investigation to begin today. ABC News reported that a letter from the Iraqi oil ministry described a U.N. official who led the program as giving directions indicating which company should handle his personal oil deal, estimated to be worth as much as $3.5 million. A9

4 Killed in Jordan Shootout
Jordanian security forces killed four suspected militants in a shootout in Amman, the government reported. A12

5 Palestinians Killed in Gaza
Israeli soldiers killed five Palestinians as the Israeli Army sent tanks into the northern Gaza Strip to try to halt repeated Palestinian rocket fire coming from the tense territory, the Israeli military and Palestinian hospital officials said. A6

More Qaeda Link Accusations
Judge Baltasar Garzon, who indicted Osama bin Laden and 34 others in September in Spain, charged five more people with belonging to or supporting a Qaeda cell there. A12

4 Terror Suspects Arrested
The police in Sweden arrested four people in connection with what officials called Islamic terrorism. A Swedish newspaper reported that the suspects had been seized at the urging of the United States because they had helped organize attacks on American occupation forces in Iraq. A12

Financing War on Iraq
Senator Robert C. Byrd, the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, said the Bush administration may have broken the law by failing to inform Congressional leaders in mid-2002 of its use of emergency antiterror dollars to prepare to invade Iraq. A11

Turkey Backs Unified Cyprus
Turkey has endorsed a United Nations proposal to reunite Cyprus despite widespread public criticism that its stand amounts to a betrayal of the island's Turkish population. A3

NATIONAL A14-21

Justices Appear Unmoved By Arguments on Detainees
The Supreme Court appeared distinctly unreceptive to the Bush administration's argument that the federal courthouse doors must remain closed to the foreign detainees at the Guantanamo Bay naval base in Cuba. A1

USA Today Editor Resigns
Karen Jurgensen, the top editor of USA Today since 1999, resigned abruptly, citing her failure to intercept the apparent fabrications in articles by the newspaper's former star foreign correspondent. A1

Bush Backs Down on Overtime
Facing a deluge of criticism in an election year, the Bush administration scaled back its plans to deny overtime coverage to hundreds of thousands of workers. A14

President Bush, who set a fund-raising record in this year's race, has now set a record for monthly spending as well, laying out almost $50 million in March. A18

Kerry to Release Navy Records
Aides to Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign said they would release all of his military records, including evaluations by his Navy commanders. A19

Texas May Tax Topless Bars
Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, called the Legislature into special session to change the way public education is financed in Texas, proposing billions of dollars in property tax reductions to the most affluent homeowners while collecting a tax of at least $5 each time a patron enters a topless bar. A14

Parents Agree to Cooperate
The parents of an elementary school teacher who has admitted involvement in a March 31 hit-and-run crash that killed two youngsters avoided jail by vowing in court that they would tell prosecutors all they know about the accident. A14

Diocese to Sell Headquarters
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston announced plans to sell much of its headquarters complex, including the archbishop's residence, for more than $100 million to pay off $90 million in loans it took out to finance sexual abuse settlements. A21

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

City Reaches a Deal With Big Labor Union
The Bloomberg administration and the city's largest municipal union reached a tentative contract that would increase the wages of 121,000 city workers by roughly 5 percent over three years while requiring newly hired workers to accept lower starting salaries. A1

Blame for Rail Accident
Railroad officials said that Monday's accident at Penn Station, in which an empty Amtrak train rammed into the rear of a Long Island Rail Road train full of rush-hour commuters, injuring 127 people, was caused by human error. B6

Storms Slow Maiden Voyage
The Queen Mary 2 is running late on its maiden voyage to New York after two cyclonelike weather systems in the North Atlantic. B3

Bush Visit Buoys Pataki
Governor Pataki, who has been battling for two years to get the Legislature to pass a set of laws that he says will help combat terrorism, sought to bolster his case during a visit by President Bush to Buffalo. B5

DINING OUT F1-12

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Nets Win Game 2
The Nets beat the Knicks, 99-81, at the Meadowlands in Game 2 of their N.B.A. playoff series. The Nets lead the series, 2-0. D1

EDUCATION B11

OBITUARIES B9

ARTS E1-10

Singer to End Long Run
Bobby Short, the singer whose name has become synonymous with a kind of timeless New York elegance, announced that he will end his 36-year run at the Cafe Carlyle. E3

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Award in Merrill Bias Case
Merrill Lynch, the nation's biggest brokerage firm, discriminated against women who worked as stockbrokers, according to a panel of arbitrators that has awarded $2.2 million to one of them. A1

Fed Chief Stirs Markets
Alan Greenspan declared that the threat of deflation was "no longer an issue" and that the economy seemed to be strengthening on many fronts, sending shivers through the stock and bond markets at the prospect of rising interest rates. C1

The Dow declined 123.35 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 10,314.50. The Nasdaq lost 41.80 points, or 2.1 percent, to close at 1,978.63. C13

Airwave License Deal Reached
The F.C.C. forged an agreement with NextWave Telecom that will free up airwave licenses vital to improving the nation's cell phone system. C1

Disney Fires ABC Managers
Walt Disney fired the entire top management of the entertainment division of ABC. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Politics and the Patriot Act; privatizing warfare; the asbestos challenge; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the wide benches of southwestern Montana.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); ARRESTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); INDICTMENTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); AL-QAEDA (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); APPROPRIATIONS (64%); HOSPITALS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); RELIGION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); ROBERT BYRD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%); TURKEY (93%); JORDAN (92%); CYPRUS (92%); SWEDEN (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



456 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Says Bush Undercuts Environment 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: BAL HARBOUR, Fla., April 20 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry accused the Bush administration Tuesday of "playing dirty" in what he described as its undoing of 30 years of environmental regulation, and declared that ocean pollution was jeopardizing Florida's vital tourism industry.
 As Mr. Kerry opened a three-day push on the environment timed to the observance of Earth Day, this Thursday, his campaign also worked to play down two new polls that showed President Bush's standing with voters improving relative to the senator's, even after a month of damaging news for the White House. 
 Across the state from here, with dolphins surfacing in the waters of Tampa Bay behind him and a seagull shrieking overhead, Mr. Kerry gave a spirited defense of environmental advocacy. 
"Being responsible about the environment is not some goo-goo, do-gooder, silly notion that you embrace once a year on Earth Day; it's important to life itself," he told about 100 people at an invitation-only appearance. 
"The same old tired argument keeps coming at us," Mr. Kerry said of opponents of tough environmental regulation. " 'If you want a strong economy, you have to stop doing some of these things,' which they call extreme."
He said his plan for promoting alternative energy sources would cut American dependence on oil from the Middle East and create 500,000 jobs, "something that is right for our economy, right for our environment and right for our national security."
"We don't have to choose between having a job and protecting the environment," Mr. Kerry said. "It can go hand in hand."
Mr. Kerry has been arranging themed events to coincide with what is essentially a fund-raising tour: after the appearance Tuesday on Tampa Bay, he raised money in Tampa at a luncheon and at a reception for him held by supporters of Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. He then flew to Miami for events here on Florida's east coast, accompanied by Mr. Edwards and two other senators mentioned as possible running mates: Bill Nelson and Bob Graham, both of Florida.
Aides said Mr. Kerry had brought in $5 million over two days in Florida, $2.1 million of that for the Democratic National Committee and the rest for his campaign.
The environmental theme allowed Mr. Kerry to pound the president on an issue close to the hearts and wallets of voters in this battleground state. He said a new government report showed that Florida's beaches generated $50 billion in economic activity and 900,000 jobs, but that there were 1,700 beach closings in 2002. And he said Mr. Bush's policies threatened to make matters worse.
"This president, to show his love of Florida waters -- well, he rolled back the cleanup requirement for rivers, lakes and estuaries," Mr. Kerry said.
Nationally, the environment rarely ranks high in surveys of voters' priorities, but Mr. Kerry said he would press his attack on the issue.
"For the first time in history," he said, "our generation may pass this country on to our children in worse shape than we were in fact handed it by our parents. And I believe that is an unacceptable principle worth fighting about, worth having an election about, worth changing the direction of this country for."
As he spoke, Mr. Kerry's aides sought to minimize the impact of the two new polls showing Mr. Bush improving his campaign standing despite weeks of bloodshed in Iraq and criticism of the administration's handling of intelligence before the Sept. 11 attacks.
A USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll showed that the president had gone from trailing Mr. Kerry by eight percentage points in early March to leading him by five points, while an ABC/Washington Post poll showed a 10-point swing in the president's favor.
The ABC/Post survey also showed a noticeable shift toward Mr. Bush when voters were asked which man they trusted more to handle major issues.
The Kerry campaign responded by releasing a memorandum from its pollsters, Mark Mellman and Tom Kiley, advising that "polls fluctuate often in meaningless ways" and asserting that the "best way to look at the plethora of public polls is to simply average the results" of a variety of recent ones. By that measure, the pollsters assured the campaign, Mr. Kerry trails Mr. Bush by a single point, "essentially a tie."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry, joined by two Senate colleagues, John Edwards, center, and Bob Graham, after their arrival in Miami yesterday on a flight from Florida's west coast, where Mr. Kerry stumped along Tampa Bay. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTH DAY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BEACHES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); RIVERS (74%); LAKES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); TOURISM (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL NELSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



457 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Labor Dept. Revises Plans To Cut Overtime Eligibility 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Facing a deluge of criticism in an election year, the Bush administration yesterday scaled back its plans to deny overtime coverage to hundreds of thousands of American workers. 
 With many police officers, firefighters and higher-paid blue-collar workers fearing that the administration's draft regulations would make them exempt from overtime pay, Secretary of Labor Elaine L. Chao announced revised regulations that she said would ensure those workers still qualified. 
 The administration also said workers earning more than $100,000 a year would almost automatically be disqualified for overtime pay, increasing that threshold from the $65,000 it proposed a year ago. There currently is no ceiling. 
Ms. Chao said the new rules, the first broad revision of overtime regulations in 50 years, would protect workers and would merely modernize and simplify regulations governing more than 100 million working people. 
"Our intent is always to strengthen overtime protections," Ms. Chao said at a news conference in Washington. "We do not expect that many people will lose their overtime." 
But many Democratic officials and labor leaders said the new rules favored corporate America and denied overtime pay to many middle-class workers just when they were feeling an economic squeeze.
When the Bush administration proposed new overtime rules a year ago, Labor Department officials estimated that an additional 644,000 workers would be ineligible for overtime pay. But the liberal Economic Policy Institute said the administration had deliberately underestimated the number, predicting that eight million workers would lose eligibility.
Ms. Chao said yesterday that the new rules, which take effect in 120 days, would deny eligibility to only 107,000 workers. But the administration's critics asserted that she was again underestimating the number. 
"This is an administration that had no reservations about repealing overtime for eight million workers," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader. "So it's hard for us to believe that they now have some transformation in that position and have been converted to an advocacy of overtime for these people."
In a statement, Senator John Kerry, the likely Democratic presidential nominee, said, "The Bush administration's changes to overtime pay strike a severe blow to what little economic security working families have left as a result of Bush's failed policies."
Under the Fair Labor Standards Act, workers are generally to receive time-and-a-half pay when they work more than 40 hours a week, except when they are salaried workers in certain executive, administrative or professional positions. 
The new rules modify the tests determining who qualifies for overtime pay, with the criteria including the amount of managerial responsibility and professional training. 
The pay level below which workers are automatically eligible for overtime pay will rise to $23,660, from $8,060. The administration said this threshold would guarantee overtime eligibility to 1.3 million workers who do not now receive it.
Under the current regulations, many assistant store and restaurant managers with salaries of about $20,000 do not qualify for overtime pay, even when they work 60-hour weeks. 
Corporate and union officials acknowledged that it was unclear which workers earning between $23,660 and $100,000 would still qualify for overtime pay.
American corporations have pressed President Bush to revise the overtime rules, saying those regulations were so unclear that they encouraged hundreds of lawsuits in which low-level managers asserted that they deserved overtime pay.
"We're pleased that after having to live with 50-year-old regulations that no longer fit today's workplace, we finally face an update," said Katherine Lugar, vice president for legislative and political affairs with the National Retail Federation. "I expect at the end of the day we'll have more clarity."
Critics and supporters of the new rules, which are 500 pages long, said it would take days to assess exactly how many workers would be disqualified from overtime pay.. There was widespread agreement that fewer would lose eligibility than under the original proposals.
Saying the administration was heeding political concerns, Bill Samuel, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s legislative director, said, "We think there are some partial fixes in areas where the Labor Department was under attack."
The Labor Department received more than 75,000 e-mail messages and letters commenting on its draft proposal.
Ms. Chao said the new rules would continue to provide overtime eligibility to police officers, firefighters, emergency medical technicians, blue-collar workers and licensed practical nurses, groups that said language in the draft regulations might have exempted them. 
The new rules indicate that some workers earning between $23,660 and $100,000 will almost automatically be exempted, including claims adjusters, funeral directors and many computer administrators.
The original proposals angered veterans' groups because they said that training received in the military could be counted as professional education that might disqualify workers from overtime pay. The new regulations omitted that language.
Under the new rules, white-collar employees who earn at least $100,000 will be exempt from overtime pay if they regularly perform some duties of an executive, administrative or professional employee. But white-collar workers earning more than $100,000 will still receive overtime pay if covered by a union contract that provides for it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (98%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); FAMILY (66%); LIBERALISM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); ELAINE CHAO (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



458 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Optimism By Fed Chief Stirs Markets 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, roiled the financial markets on Tuesday by declaring that the threat of deflation was "no longer an issue" and that the economy seemed to be strengthening on many fronts.
 Mr. Greenspan's brief but buoyant comments about the economy, during testimony at a Senate hearing, sent shivers through both the stock and bond markets, as investors interpreted his words as additional evidence that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates before the end of the year. 
 Treasury prices tumbled after Mr. Greenspan's comments, driving up their yields, which move in the opposite direction. The yield on the 10-year note, a benchmark for many consumer borrowing rates, rose to its highest closing for the year -- 4.46 percent, up from 4.39 percent on Monday. 
The major stock indexes were each down more than 1 percent. And in currency markets, the dollar rose to its highest level against the euro in five months, on the prospect of higher interest rates in this country. 
Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan said he agreed with predictions of many private economists that the job market was finally recovering and economic growth was improving.
More significantly, Mr. Greenspan flatly declared for the first time that lingering worries about the risks of a Japanese-style deflation had essentially disappeared. Worries about such an economic stagnation were one reason that the central bank reduced the Federal funds rate on overnight loans to just 1 percent, its lowest level in 58 years. The central bank kept rates down even after the economy picked up momentum last summer.
"It is fairly apparent that pricing power is gradually being restored," Mr. Greenspan said, in response to question from Senator Richard Shelby, Republican of Alabama and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. "Threats of deflation that were a significant concern last year by all indications are no longer an issue before us."
The hearing on Tuesday, although devoted primarily to the topic of bank regulation, provided an opportunity for Mr. Greenspan's first public comments about the economy since the release of data earlier this month that showed both job creation and inflation were unexpectedly high in March.
Fed officials have made it clear for months that they would eventually have to raise interest rates, but the central bank has also said it could afford to be "patient" and wanted to see more solid evidence of a job recovery and greater ability of companies to raise their prices.
To the apparent disappointment of investors, Mr. Greenspan paid no lip service yesterday to the idea of being "patient" and said the economy appeared to have undergone a change in "the last number of weeks."
He also told lawmakers that banks were generally well positioned to manage an increase in interest rates. "The industry appears to have been sufficiently mindful of interest rate cycles and to have exposed itself to undue risks," he said.
Bond investors, increasingly convinced lately that the Fed will retreat from its policy of cheap money as early as this summer, have been driving up rates on longer term Treasury bonds for the last month. As recently as March, the 10-year yield was as low as 3.68 percent, more than three-quarters of a percentage point below yesterday's close.
Mortgage rates have edged up about a half-percentage point in the last month, with the average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage up to 5.97 percent, according to Bankrate.com.
"The market was caught off-guard" by Mr. Greenspan's comments, said Lou Crandall, the chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, a bond-market research concern in New York City. "There had been some hope in the market that Greenspan would suggest the sell-off in Treasuries had been overdone. Instead, he chose to say that things had changed in the past few weeks. He just snatched away the hope that he was going to be more friendly." 
That said, Fed officials have also suggested that they are not likely to start tightening policy as early as the next meeting -- on May 4 -- of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest rates.
Roger Ferguson, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, noted in a speech last month that it remained unclear whether the surprisingly strong job growth in March, with 308,000 additional jobs, was the start a true turnaround in the labor market.
And even though Mr. Greenspan declared that the specter of deflation had been put to rest, he showed little concern that inflation was a threat either. In response to questions yesterday, the Fed chairman reiterated his view that the sharp rise in commodity prices during the last year was unlikely to be a serious indicator of inflation. 
But Mr. Greenspan also pegged his optimism about inflation to the continued growth of productivity.
"Inflationary pressures will be reasonably well-contained so long as productivity is moving along at a reasonably good clip and unit labor costs are going down," he said.
Despite the rise in longer-term interest rates, they are still lower than they were last September. At that time, bond investors were shaken by what they viewed as a new reluctance by the Fed to take special measures aimed at keeping long-term rates low -- despite the Fed's stated commitment last August to keeping rates low for "a considerable period." 
In January, the Fed inched away from that commitment by announcing that it would be "patient" before it moved away from its easy-money policy.
The big question now is whether the central bank will raise rates this summer, before the presidential elections, or wait until next year. Mr. Greenspan may provide additional guidance to that issue on Wednesday, when he testifies in more detail about the economy at a hearing of the House-Senate Joint Economic Committee.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified before the Senate Banking Committee yesterday. (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); DEFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING LAW (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); EURO (71%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); RICHARD SHELBY (58%) GREENSPAN, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



459 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2004
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; 
U.S. Generals Fault Ban on Hussein's Party

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: TIKRIT, Iraq, April 20 

 BODY:
Two American generals warned Tuesday that the occupation authority's policy of barring former Baath Party members, including senior Iraqi Army officers, from government jobs was self-defeating and breeding resentment against the American-led efforts in the country. 
 The generals stopped short of criticizing the policy. But their remarks reflect a growing anger and frustration among many senior United States commanders that the policy is excluding many of the skilled Iraqi professionals needed to help the country's political and economic reconstruction, especially in the restive Sunni heartland, even as American officials seek to broker a transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqis after June 30. 
 "There are a number of Sunnis who are very good, courageous and determined people, who, if given a chance, would be part of the solution in Iraq," said one of the generals, Maj. Gen. John R. S. Batiste, commander of the First Infantry Division, at his headquarters here in one of Saddam Hussein's former palaces overlooking the Tigris River. "They would be schoolteachers. They would be engineers." 
General Batiste also said there were a "huge number" of former Iraqi military officers who have been "completely marginalized" by the decision last year by L. Paul Bremer III, Iraq's civilian administrator, to disband the Iraqi Army. "These are proud officers with enormous energy and capability," General Batiste said. "If we harness their capability, it'd be a good thing."
In Mosul, where 60 percent of the city's 1.8 million residents are Sunni, the other general, Brig. Gen. Carter F. Ham said, "I'd like to see a policy that deals with individual cases rather than have a blanket policy." 
General Ham, who commands nearly 20,000 American and Iraqi forces in the north, said the "de-Baathification" policy has caused many Sunnis to feel "disenfranchised" from the emerging Iraqi government. "That creates a somewhat destabilizing effect," he said. 
Of Iraq's 25 million people, about 2.5 million belonged to the Baath Party during Mr. Hussein's rule. After the fall of his government, Mr. Bremer and the Iraqi Governing Council decreed that the top three levels of the party membership could not be on the government payroll. More than 120,000 people lost their jobs. 
Some were loyalists of Mr. Hussein's, but many others were doctors, nurses, university professors, and other professionals who argued that they had joined the Baath Party only to feed their families or advance their careers, not out of loyalty to Mr. Hussein. General Batiste said 70 Baathists on the faculty of a college here in Tikrit remained unemployed. "We need to draw up a list of those Baathists who must be held accountable for their crimes, but let the rest of the Baathists have a future in the new Iraq," said a senior American military officer in Iraq. 
Administration officials said Mr. Bremer tried to ease some of the restrictions on former Baathists some months ago, but met with a furious response by the Governing Council members, especially Ahmad Chalabi, the former Iraqi exile with a history of close Pentagon ties, who has taken a lead in the process.
At a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday, Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said, "Most experts agree that the de-Baathification program went beyond what was needed to assure that the Baathist leadership was not maintained." He also noted that the United Nations envoy to Iraq, Lakhdar Brahimi, had said last week, "It is difficult to understand that thousands upon thousands of professionals who are sorely needed have been dismissed within the de-Baathification process." 
Former Baathists can petition the council to be allowed government work, but General Batiste said that the process was long and cumbersome. The American military is taking some steps with former senior Iraqi military officers. Gen. John P. Abizaid, the top American officer in the Middle East, has ordered that 500 experienced former Iraqi officers be recruited and placed in American units in Iraq, down to the platoon level, to gain experience to take back to their Iraqi units. They are to be closely vetted before taking up their posts.
General Batiste said he was also studying the possibility of enlisting retired two-star and three-star Iraqi generals to assist with military units, or to assume new political jobs, like sitting on a city council. He said he wants to recall retired Iraqi police academy trainers to help instruct the new police forces. 
The problem for American commanders in the Sunni heartland is not just with re-employing former Baathists. American officials are battling a general sense of hopelessness that leads many young Iraqi men to take up arms against United States troops, out of anger or for hire.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maj. Gen. John R. S. Batiste, foreground, said yesterday that barring former Baath Party members from Iraq government jobs was backfiring. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); DISMISSALS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); LAYOFFS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2004 



460 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: As Wealthy Fill Top Colleges, Concerns Grow Over Fairness

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

 BODY:
At prestigious universities around the country, from flagship state colleges to the Ivy League, more and more students from upper-income families are edging out those from the middle class, according to university data. 
 The change is fast becoming one of the biggest issues in higher education.
 More members of this year's freshman class at the University of Michigan have parents making at least $200,000 a year than have parents making less than the national median of about $53,000, according to a survey of Michigan students. At the most selective private universities across the country, more fathers of freshmen are doctors than are hourly workers, teachers, clergy members, farmers or members of the military -- combined.
 Experts say the change in the student population is a result of both steep tuition increases and the phenomenal efforts many wealthy parents put into preparing their children to apply to the best schools. It is easy to see here, where BMW 3-series sedans are everywhere and students pay up to $800 a month to live off campus, enough to rent an entire house in parts of Michigan. 
 Some colleges are starting to take action. Officials long accustomed to discussing racial diversity are instead taking steps to improve economic diversity. They say they are worried that their universities are reproducing social advantage instead of serving as an engine of mobility. 
 ''It's very much an issue of fundamental fairness,'' Lawrence H. Summers, the president of Harvard, said in an interview. ''An important purpose of institutions like Harvard is to give everybody a shot at the American dream.'' 
 The University of Maryland recently said it would no longer ask students from families making less than $21,000 a year to take out loans, and would instead give them scholarships to cover tuition. Officials at Harvard, the University of North Carolina and the University of Virginia all recently announced similar, even more generous policies.
 Stanford and Yale have altered early-admission programs, partly out of a concern that they give an unfair advantage to students who do not need to compare financial-aid offers before they can commit to a college.
 Over all, at the 42 most selective state universities, including the flagship campuses in California, Colorado, Illinois, Michigan and New York, 40 percent of this year's freshmen come from families making more than $100,000, up from about 32 percent in 1999, according to the Higher Education Research Institute. Nationwide, fewer than 20 percent of families make that much money.
 The recent increase has continued a two-decade trend that extends well beyond the best-known colleges.
 In 2000, about 55 percent of freshmen at the nation's 250 most selective colleges, public and private, were from the highest-earning fourth of households, compared with 46 percent in 1985, according to the institute, which is based at the University of California, Los Angeles. 
 The number from the bottom fourth dipped slightly over that period, while those from the middle 50 percent fell sharply. In many cases, the less wealthy students went to less selective schools, including lower-ranked campuses of state universities. 
 ''There has been over the last several decades a whole slew of efforts to level the playing field for college admissions,'' said Alexander W. Astin, a professor of higher education at U.C.L.A. ''In spite of all these efforts, access for poor kids and kids of less well-educated parents has not improved. And for kids in the middle, it's actually declined.''
 ''This isn't good news, and it's somewhat surprising,'' he added.
 If anything, some college officials said, the statistics may understate the level of student wealth because they rely on a survey of freshmen. When officials at Binghamton University, part of the State University of New York, matched survey data with financial-aid forms, they found that students often listed their parents' income as lower than it really was, said Cheryl Brown, the director of undergraduate admissions.
 At Harvard, for instance, financial-aid forms suggest that the median family income is about $150,000.
 The increasing wealth on the nation's most prestigious campuses has gone largely unnoticed until recently, though, obscured by two other trends, education scholars say.
 Over the last 40 years, colleges have become more diverse in other ways, admitting far more Asian-American, black, Jewish and Latino students than they once did. Many colleges also draw from a broader geographic base, with Michigan taking more out-of-state applicants, for example, Ivy League universities relying less on students from the Northeast and almost all colleges recruiting more foreign students.
 Colleges have meanwhile increased tuition rapidly, causing the number of students on financial aid to jump and creating an impression that they are from a wider economic spectrum than in the past. In reality, financial aid simply stretches far higher up the income ladder than before.
 At Michigan, admissions officers created a new section of the university's application where high school students can say how much money their parents make and whether any of their grandparents went to college. Michigan started devising the questions last year when the Supreme Court was considering its affirmative action policies. The court ultimately upheld affirmative action but required the university to eliminate a point system that gave extra points to minorities. 
 With the new questions, Theodore L. Spencer, director of undergraduate admissions, said Michigan wanted to give proper credit to students who had compiled good academic records without the advantages that others had. ''We certainly want to look at ways to create a better distribution of students,'' he said.
 Michigan is still not dominated by wealth as some private colleges are. Almost half of its students are from families earning less than $100,000 a year, the student survey shows. But the changes are still unmistakable, say professors and others here. 
 ''When most people think of a typical college student, they're thinking about eating peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and having massive debts,'' said Scott E. Mendy, a junior from Tigard, Ore., who receives financial aid. At Michigan, he said, ''people live very well.''
 Summer jobs? Many undergraduates do not think twice about accepting an internship that barely covers their expenses. Many can afford to take spring break trips to Mexican resorts or Europe. Extracurricular activities often seem to be run by students who can devote dozens of hours to them each week without trying to hold down a campus job, said Angela Galardi, a senior who recently completed a term as president of the student government. 
 The forces behind the rising wealth on many campuses seem to be both economic and psychological, university officials say. As the income of college graduates has risen much faster than that of less educated workers, getting into the right college has become an obsession in many upper-income high schools.
 With the help of summer programs, preparation classes for college entrance examinations and sometimes their own private admissions counselors, students in these schools assemble more impressive applications than they once did. They also apply to more top colleges. 
 The advantages of campuses with increasingly wealthy student bodies are obvious, educators say: the colleges have more resources for research and student activities, more professors doing cutting-edge work and more students who received solid high school educations.
 But they also have much steeper tuition bills than in the past, and this seems to have turned off many middle- and low-income families. Some students are not willing to take on the tens of thousands of dollars of debt that is often necessary. Others, studies show, underestimate the available amount of financial aid.
 ''We were founded on the principle of allowing larger numbers of students to go to college in an affordable way,'' Mr. Spencer, Michigan's admission director, said. ''But having said that, the price of college has gone up, and many of the truly needy will not bother to apply.''
 That concerns people here and on other campuses because of what it could mean for the variety of campus life and for the broader economy. 
 ''We're very worried,'' said William Fitzsimmons, Harvard's director of undergraduate admissions. ''There are some very, very talented kids in the bottom quartile who aren't even going to college. It's a huge waste of talent.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott E. Mendy, a junior at the University of Michigan, says students there ''live very well.'' (Photo by Tony Ding for The New York Times)(pg. A21)Chart: ''FOR THE RECORD -- Rising Wealth''Income distribution of the parents of freshman classes entering the 250 most selective colleges and universities.Highest 25 percent1985: 46.1%2000: 54.9Middle 50 percent1985: 40.9%2000: 33.2Lowest 25 percent1985: 13.0%2000: 11.8(Source by Alexander W. Astin and Leticia Oseguera, Higher Education Research Institute, University of California, Los Angeles)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TRENDS (77%); SEDANS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); RELIGION (55%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Scholarships and Fellowships; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (59%) University of Maryland; Harvard University; University of Virginia; University of North Carolina

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



461 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Losing Our Edge?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I was just out in Silicon Valley, checking in with high-tech entrepreneurs about the state of their business. I wouldn't say they were universally gloomy, but I did detect something I hadn't detected before: a real undertow of concern that America is losing its competitive edge vis-a-vis China, India, Japan and other Asian tigers, and that the Bush team is deaf, dumb and blind to this situation.
 Several executives explained to me that they were opening new plants in Asia -- not because of cheaper labor. Labor is a small component now in an automated high-tech manufacturing plant. It is because governments in these countries are so eager for employment and the transfer of technology to their young populations that they are offering huge tax holidays for U.S. manufacturers who will set up shop. Because most of these countries also offer some form of national health insurance, U.S. companies shed that huge open liability as well. 
 Other executives complained bitterly that the Department of Homeland Security is making it so hard for legitimate foreigners to get visas to study or work in America that many have given up the age-old dream of coming here. Instead, they are studying in England and other Western European nations, and even China. This is leading to a twofold disaster. 
 First, one of America's greatest assets -- its ability to skim the cream off the first-round intellectual draft choices from around the world and bring them to our shores to innovate -- will be diminished, and that in turn will shrink our talent pool. And second, we could lose a whole generation of foreigners who would normally come here to study, and then would take American ideas and American relationships back home. In a decade we will feel that loss in America's standing around the world. 
 Still others pointed out that the percentage of Americans graduating with bachelor's degrees in science and engineering is less than half of the comparable percentage in China and Japan, and that U.S. government investments are flagging in basic research in physics, chemistry and engineering. Anyone who thinks that all the Indian and Chinese techies are doing is answering call-center phones or solving tech problems for Dell customers is sadly mistaken. U.S. firms are moving serious research and development to India and China. 
 The bottom line: we are actually in the middle of two struggles right now. One is against the Islamist terrorists in Iraq and elsewhere, and the other is a competitiveness-and-innovation struggle against India, China, Japan and their neighbors. And while we are all fixated on the former (I've been no exception), we are completely ignoring the latter. We have got to get our focus back in balance, not to mention our budget. We can't wage war on income taxes and terrorism and a war for innovation at the same time.
 Craig Barrett, the C.E.O. of Intel, noted that Intel sponsors an international science competition every year. This year it attracted some 50,000 American high school kids. ''I was in China 10 days ago,'' Mr. Barrett said, ''and I asked them how many kids in China participated in the local science fairs that feed into the national fair [and ultimately the Intel finals]. They told me six million kids.''
 For now, the U.S. still excels at teaching science and engineering at the graduate level, and also in university research. But as the Chinese get more feeder stock coming up through their high schools and colleges, ''they will get to the same level as us after a decade,'' Mr. Barrett said. ''We are not graduating the volume, we do not have a lock on the infrastructure, we do not have a lock on the new ideas, and we are either flat-lining, or in real dollars cutting back, our investments in physical science.''
 And what is the Bush strategy? Let's go to Mars. Hello? Right now we should have a Manhattan Project to develop a hydrogen-based energy economy -- it's within reach and would serve our economy, our environment and our foreign policy by diminishing our dependence on foreign oil. Instead, the Bush team says let's go to Mars. Where is Congress? Out to lunch -- or, worse, obsessed with trying to keep Susie Smith's job at the local pillow factory that is moving to the Caribbean -- without thinking about a national competitiveness strategy. And where is Wall Street? So many of the plutocrats there know that the Bush fiscal policy is a long-term disaster. They know it -- but they won't say a word because they are too greedy or too gutless.
 The only crisis the U.S. thinks it's in today is the war on terrorism, Mr. Barrett said. ''It's not.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); RELOCATIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); TERRORISM (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); PHYSICS (61%); CALL CENTERS (60%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%) Science and Technology; Relocation of Business; Tax Deductions; Science and Technology

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%) Intel Corp

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman; Craig R Barrett

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (94%); INDIA (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ENGLAND (69%) India; China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



462 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: Bright Spots in the Rain Forest

BYLINE: By Brian Kelly and Mark London. 
Brian Kelly, the executive editor of U.S. News & World Report, and Mark London, a lawyer, are co-authors of ''Amazon.''

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The rallying cry, ''Save the Amazon!'' rang out again this month when the Brazilian government reported that clearing of the rain forest had reached near-record levels -- with an area bigger than the state of New Jersey disappearing last year. This Earth Day, global environmental groups are covering their Web sites with the usual predictions of how long it will take for all the trees there to vanish (20 to 50 years). Recently, the Brazilian government announced yet another initiative to get serious about the problem.
 But the news was welcomed by others who also care deeply about the environment. Most of them actually live in the Amazon. 
 The reasons for the surge in deforestation are a lot more complicated than they used to be, and the solution for saving the rain forest may be more development, not less. 
 The facts have changed, as we discovered while traveling thousands of miles across the Amazon this year. At one time, use and abuse of the region were synonymous. In many instances, the best development was no development at all: there were few alternative uses of the forest that justified its destruction.
 Not anymore. Technically savvy Brazilian farmers have created profitable large-scale cattle ranches and soybean farms that reach to the horizon. Cotton, corn and rice, when rotated properly, flourish in the delicate soil. Last year, Brazil passed the United States in soybean exports.
 The facts on the ground give every indication that the Amazon can be used for multiple purposes. Perhaps 60 percent to 70 percent of the territory -- as much as a million square miles -- should be left untouched, set aside because the soil is too poor or the biodiversity too rich. The rest, however, can be used. There's a lot there: a promising new agricultural frontier, giant mineral deposits of iron ore and bauxite, fish farming, hydroelectric power, even some substantial oil and natural gas reserves. 
 To take a do-not-touch position ignores reality and makes it impossible to work with those who have the capital to make productive changes to the environment. Though recent discussions among aid organizations, the private sector and the Brazilian government about new road development have been promising, too much of the debate remains locked in old mythologies. The World Bank and the European Community, for example, are intent on strict preservation or, sometimes, ''sustainable development,'' a term that is so open to interpretation as to be meaningless. 
 What's more, Western governments have been slow to help Brazil in an area of genuine importance: law enforcement. Brazil has progressive environmental laws, but lacks the resources to see to it that they are followed. Development is chaotic.
 Brazilians have long been conflicted about how to deal with the Amazon and become defensive when discussing it with outsiders. At the same time, they have a point. The Europeans and Americans ''cry when we cut a tree, but they don't cry when children die or do not have an education,'' says Blairo Maggi, a large soy producer and governor of the southern Amazon state of Mato Grosso. ''If they want to help us,'' he adds, ''then help us help ourselves.'' 
 And what do you say to the pioneer families slashing and burning their way through the forest in search of a better life? That the frontier is closed? That they should go home to the slums that ring Rio and Sao Paulo?
 The real news from the Amazon is that the news is not all bad. The region has the potential to be the next breadbasket of the world -- and it can remain the earth's most important virgin rain forest. For that to happen, though, people will have to update their assumptions about the region, bringing them into line not with romance but with reality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); FINFISH FARMING (87%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (87%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (85%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); DEFORESTATION (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); EARTH DAY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); SOYBEAN FARMING (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); AQUACULTURE (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); RIVERS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (51%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Forests and Forestry; Area Planning and Renewal; Land Use Policies; Agriculture; Steel and Iron; Bauxite; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fish Farming; Forests and Forestry; Fishing, Commercial; Electric Light and Power; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Hydroelectric Power

PERSON: Brian Kelly; Mark London

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) Amazon River Basin

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



463 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1; DESIGN NOTEBOOK

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: Softening the Cutting Edge With Petals and Pattern

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER HAWTHORNE

DATELINE: MILAN 

 BODY:
FOR the last couple of years, designers at the Salone Internazionale del Mobile here have tried various ways to tweak or even subvert high-end minimalism, which has enjoyed a long run as home decor's default style. 
 At this year's furniture fair, which ended on Monday, some of those strategies were still in evidence. Attention-grabbing figures like Philippe Starck and the Dutch group Moooi archly undercut the smooth look with baroque decoration, blasts of color and pattern or razor-sharp edges. At Edra, there were chairs and sofas that seemed happy to take on any form, from tangled to crinkled to lumpy, as long as it was not a streamlined one. 
 A more surprising and compelling challenge, though, came from designs with a sensibility reminiscent of Sofia Coppola's film ''Lost in Translation'': genuine and even sweet, but with more than a touch of wistfulness. Brightly colored odes to childhood and fantasy-filled displays that used new technologies and materials to look low-tech drew the most attention, along with designs that sought to provide a bit of refuge or calm. Irony or too-clever posturing seemed to hit the wrong note. 
 ''After all these years of severe and clean design, we don't have to become baroque,'' said the Spanish architect and designer Patricia Urquiola, whose work seemed to be everywhere. ''People are intelligent enough to understand a design that doesn't try too hard to be funny or come on too strong.'' 
 She added: ''There are many of us now who are not afraid to do something in a more sweet and simple way.'' 
 Ms. Urquiola's Usame table for Kartell certainly fit that description. At first glance, the small, low table was upstaged by brasher neo-Baroque pieces, by Mr. Starck and Ferruccio Laviani, placed near the front of Kartell's display area. Yet with its floral tracing, Ms. Urquiola's design, in transparent polycarbonate, had a genuine, delicate honesty that the others lacked. It will be available in May at Kartell stores for about $300. 
 Moroso unveiled a chair by Ms. Urquiola called Bloomy, whose form is as optimistic as its name. It is based, Ms. Urquiola said, on the petals of some desert flowers she saw last year while working on a design for a hotel near Palm Springs, Calif., a project that ultimately fell through. 
 Overall, the feeling at the fair this year -- which flooded Milan with 189,655 visitors from the trade, up 10.6 percent from last year, with foreign attendance up 15 percent -- was one of real if tentative hopefulness. Emerging signs of a turnaround in sales were checked by continued worries about war and terrorism, not to mention the shadow cast by the sale of the struggling Italian manufacturer Cappellini, which gave its display a somber tone instead of its usually rollicking feel. Italian furniture exports were down 6.5 percent in 2003 over all, but grew in the last quarter of the year, according to Cosmit, the company that operates the fair.
 Industry members who attend the fair annually reported seeing more energy and less angst. ''I really felt a focus on the designs themselves this year,'' said Rob Forbes, a founder of Design Within Reach. ''Two years ago, after 9/11, it was just sad. And last year, everybody was speculating about the economy. This time I saw an effort just to sort through this huge eclectic mix of designs and influences.''
 Murray Moss of the New York design store Moss agreed. ''It seemed very dense this year, with a lot to see,'' he said. ''Companies were showing more than they have been in the past, and that means the investment and optimism are there.'' 
 Even so, several designers sought this year to create private, fantastical realms sealed off from the rest of the world. One example that fairgoers raved about came from Tord Boontje, a 35-year-old Dutch designer who is based in London. At the cocktail party celebrating ''Happy Ever After,'' his installation at the Moroso showroom, a young crowd drained Champagne straight from the bottle as they draped themselves across his new bench, swivel chair and swings hanging from the ceiling, which were themselves draped with colorful laser- and water-jet-cut fabrics. Mixed in were one-off chairs in wedding-gown lace and other fabrics inspired by high fashion. 
 ''I wanted to connect to memories, especially happy childhood memories,'' Mr. Boontje said at the opening, in a voice that was barely audible over the din of conversation and music. ''At the moment I'm reading many bedtime stories to my little girl, and I'm thinking about that.'' 
 But along with some willful naivete, Mr. Boontje was displaying a sophisticated use of technology. Pieces of fabric hanging from the ceiling, for example, were covered with patterns from his watercolor painting that he had scanned into a computer. ''The pattern is printed right on the cloth with a digital printer,'' he said. ''Traditionally with screen printing you could use five or six colors. With this technique you can use thousands.'' 
 For Alice Rawsthorn, the director of the Design Museum in London, Mr. Boontje was very much the star of the show. ''The work had a gentleness, like Tord's own personality,'' Ms. Rawsthorn said. ''But the fact that he wielded technology so sharply kept it from being too sweet or kitschy.'' That combination of craft and technology, she added, while not entirely new, ''really touched a nerve this year.'' 
 An even more clearly digitized version of nature could be seen in the work of the French designer Matali Crasset, an alumna of Mr. Starck's office, who held what she called a garden party at a small gallery. She made low chairs that looked like miniature houses and dark-green cones of synthetic fabric hanging from the ceiling to suggest a forest. ''The idea is not to recreate nature exactly but to explore why we feel comfort and harmony in natural forms,'' she said. 
 Other designers were drawn to natural forms that were less idealized. At Edra, the Brazilian brothers Fernando and Humberto Campana showed a new bench called Coral, made from orange wire bent into a wild tangle that Mr. Moss compared to ''a three-dimensional scribble.'' 
 Somewhat more comfortable was the architect Frank Gehry's aluminum Superlight Chair for Emeco, which has a wispy profile and is designed to move a bit, rocking slightly back and forth and side to side. 
 To be sure, there were examples of exuberance and more aggressive whimsy. Markus Benesch, a designer from Munich, showed Colorflage, a sort of wallpaper that puts warped, almost psychedelic patterns all over a room, including floor, ceiling and furniture. The idea, he said, is to make the room's architecture disappear. 
 And at a small gallery show that also included work by Robert Stadler and Konstantin Grcic, the Dutch designer Jurgen Bey showed a pair of chairs, commissioned by a Belgian insurance company, with exaggerated earflaps extending from the front. Facing each other, the chairs, covered in a riotous gray pattern that was repeated in the carpet, on a wall panel and even on an oversize lampshade overhead, created what Mr. Bey called a space for private dialogue.
 At Paola Lenti, designers seemed to want to hold on to minimalism a bit longer. But the woven forms of Francesco Rota's outdoor Wave chaise -- in a thick yarn the company calls Rope -- gave the pieces some welcome heft and tactility.
 The German lighting designer Ingo Maurer showed a chamber for solitary meditation made from hanging sheets of a shimmering gold color. The interior was lined with pillows, and next to them sat a bottle of vodka, glasses and limes on a tray, and a small pile of design books. 
 Sometimes you have the desire to be alone but in nice surroundings,'' Mr. Maurer said, gesturing toward the glowing gold room. ''You go in there, have a vodka gimlet, read, or just relax.'' 
 While Mr. Maurer offered drink, food was a dominant theme throughout the fair this year, beginning with the Dining Design show organized by the New York architect Adam D. Tihany. In a separate exhibition called Street Dining Design, 10 architectural firms, mostly based in Italy, produced stand-up, high-design food stalls. 
 While those structures were for quick, often solo meals, other designers looked to food as a means of exploring the kind of social interaction and more humane pace that is found around a dinner table. Even Droog, the Dutch design collective known for operating on the cutting edge, used food to display a thoughtful side this year. 
 The group combined a small cafe with a shop selling T-shirts under $20 alongside far more expensive limited-edition pieces, like Joris Laarman's ornate radiator. The theme in the cafe was slow design, the group's answer to the slow food movement. Visitors were asked to put large felt slippers over their shoes, which made it impossible to walk quickly. 
 A young woman at the entrance was stitching the letters of the menu items onto a two-foot-high particle board, and the food was served by friendly waiters over the age of 65, from the Netherlands. Signs around the room, also stitched by hand, read ''Eat Slowly,'' ''Drink Slowly'' and ''Look Slowly.'' 
 ''These people who are sitting here eating are very brave, I think, because they have 100 different shows to get to in Milan,'' said Renny Ramakers, the director of Droog. 
 But as always at the Salone, where art surfaced, commerce was never far behind. Though there was one last sign near the front door urging them to shop slowly, Droog fans were lining up to buy the more affordable items, and the cash register was ringing nonstop. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: MOOD MAKERS -- Partying at ''Happy Ever After,'' Tord Boontje's installation at the Moroso showroom, top left
Jurgen Bey, above, with his Dutch Pieces, commissioned by a Belgian insurance company
Paola Lenti, right, with Wave, a chaise designed for her company by Francesco Rota
Matali Crasset, below right, at her ''garden party''
Markus Benesch, below, with Colorflage
''Go Slow'' at a cafe installed by Droog, the Dutch collective, below left
Ingo Maurer's solitary meditation chamber, left. (Photographs by Alice Fiorilli for The New York Times)(pg. F6)
 ARRIVEDERCI AUSTERITY -- In Milan, designers sought childlike retreats from the world. Tord Boontje, far left, draped his swivel chair, above, with laser-cut felt. Patricia Urquiola, left, based her Bloomy chair on desert flowers. Her Usame table, bottom left, is polycarbonate with floral tracing. (Photographs by Alice Fiorilli for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); TERRORISM (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



464 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Deal Is Reached to Protect Adirondacks Land and Economy

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
In the largest land protection deal in New York State history, more than a quarter million acres of privately owned spruce forest, untamed river and true back country wilderness scattered across the heart of the Adirondack Mountains will be forever protected from development and opened for camping, hiking and other public uses, Gov. George E. Pataki will announce today. 
 After generally being off limits for most of the last century, the 257,425 acres of forest and wetlands -- covering parts of nine counties and substantially larger than all the land within the boundaries of New York City -- will be thrown open and made available for a wide range of public recreation. Traditional, privately owned Adirondack camps, built on leased land, will be preserved and, under strict conditions, allowed to expand. 
 The land New York State is protecting at the cost of millions of dollars is some of the most magnificent landscape in the Adirondacks, a striking blend of wild rivers, hidden lakes and vast stretches of trees -- spruce and fir in the northern sections; birch, oak and other hardwoods in the south. 
 The deal includes an important change from past land acquisitions, a shift that some environmental groups say could be a model for the rest of the country: the company that owns the land, International Paper, will retain the right to harvest wood using sustainable methods, which generally means selectively cutting trees and planting new ones to replace them. 
 Besides preserving jobs in the timber industry, a declining but still important part of the Adirondack region's economy, the conservation easements mean that the company will continue to pay taxes on the land, though at a reduced rate reflecting the loss of development potential. By law, the state then makes up the lost revenues so the 34 towns in nine counties where the land is located will not be financially hurt by the transactions. In addition to the conservation easements, the state is buying 2,000 particularly sensitive acres in several places throughout the Adirondacks. The parcels adjoin existing parkland and forest preserve and include striking natural environments like Silver Lake Mountain, which rock climbers have long dreamed of scaling, and about two miles of pristine frontage along the fabled Sacandaga River. 
 In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Pataki said the deal with International Paper strikes the right balance between conserving the environment and protecting the region's economy. 
 ''We're purchasing key environmentally sensitive areas, if for economic reasons or strategic reasons, and we're preserving the other property against development while sustaining a strong regional economy,'' said the governor, who is scheduled to announce the deal in Albany. ''It's exactly the way to move forward.'' 
 Since its creation in 1892, Adirondack State Park has represented an unusual effort to balance wilderness with limited development and public access. Sprawling over six million acres, it is the largest wilderness by far in the lower 48 states, and home to the last sizable old growth forest in the Northeast. 
 The park is also home to more than 130,000 year-round residents and 110,000 more seasonal residents in more than 100 towns and villages. 
 Over the last few years, large paper companies, facing increased global competition and a large-scale restructuring of the way they do business, have been shedding large tracts of land they have held for a century or more. In some cases, this has raised the threat of development, as land was sold to the highest bidders. 
 Five years ago, the financially troubled Champion International Company sold nearly 300,000 acres of forest land spread over Vermont, New Hampshire and the Adirondack region of New York to a combination of public and private entities to raise cash. Champion was taken over by International Paper in 2000.
 Nonprofit land conservation groups have stepped in to broker deals with the big companies so the land can be protected while jobs are preserved. The transaction in New York is considered an important step in developing a more sophisticated approach to land conservation. 
 ''It's fair to say that it's a historic transaction, not only for Adirondack Park and the State of New York but way beyond that in setting a tone for future conservation projects across the country,'' said Larry Selzer, president of the Conservation Fund, a private group in Virginia that helped arrange the deal with International Paper. The group will provide some of the bridge financing needed to buy the easements until the state comes up with the money. 
 Under the agreement, New York will pay fair market value for the land it is buying and for the conservation easements. State officials said the land, which is made up of 21 parcels, has not yet been appraised, but the total estimated cost is about $25 million. The money will come from the state's Environmental Protection Fund and the federal Forest Legacy program, officials said. 
 The Conservation Fund, which also brokered the 1999 transaction with Champion International, has helped protect more than 3.7 million acres of land and water resources across the country since 1985. Mr. Selzer said the Adirondack deal would help redefine land conservation in the 21st century. ''Working forests are now recognized as a desirable outcome precisely because they keep large landscapes intact and balance economic and environmental objectives,'' he said.
 Thomas C. Jorling, International Paper's vice president for environmental affairs, who was commissioner of New York's Department of Environmental Conservation from 1987 to 1994, said that selling the easement rights would lower the company's taxes and reduce carrying costs on the land, part of some 19 million acres in its worldwide holdings. The $1.3 million in property taxes the company now pays is expected to be reduced after it sells the rights to develop those holdings. 
 Mr. Jorling said the company has worked with other states on similar deals, but nothing approaching the magnitude of this one. 
 ''This shows an evolution of the orientation of the forest products industry toward capturing all the multiple values of managing forests rather than focusing just on the production of fiber,'' Mr. Jorling said. 
 All the timber taken from Adirondack Park is processed at the company's mill in Ticonderoga, N.Y., which employs about 700 people. Independent loggers, under contract to International Paper and certified in sustainable forestry practices, cut the trees. 
 The easements will double the amount of working forest within the Adirondack park that can never be developed. There will be two broad categories of easements. The state will acquire full recreation rights to about 82,000 acres, and partial rights to build hiking and snowmobiling trails on about 173,000 acres. 
 Mr. Pataki, a Republican who has pledged to leave a good environmental legacy in the state, said the deal with International Paper fulfilled several goals. 
 ''When I took office, there was enormous resentment in the Adirondacks to downstate people coming in and dictating how local people live their lives,'' he said. ''''Keeping the paper company land a working forest is an example of reaching common ground and not imposing measures without considering their economic consequences.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Great Sacandaga Lake in Saratoga County, a conservation easement in the state's land preservation deal with International Paper. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B1)Map of New York highlighting Adirondack Park: Nine counties across Adirondack Park, north of Albany, will be affected by the land accord. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (92%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); PLANT CONSERVATION (78%); CAMPING (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); LAKES (78%); HIKING (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (76%); WETLANDS (73%); CLIMBING (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



465 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2; Economic Scene

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Selection ranks above price among the benefits of shopping online.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness'' (HarperCollins).

 BODY:
WHAT is so great about Internet commerce?
 To many economists, the answer is simple: lower prices. With a world of suppliers available at the click of a mouse, buyers can easily find out who has the best deals. Online commerce looks something like the blackboard model of perfect competition. 
 ''When I first started doing work on how the Internet is affecting commerce, like a lot of people, I was really excited by this nearly perfect market,'' said Erik Brynjolfsson of the Sloan School of Management at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 His early research found that prices on the Internet were 6 percent to 16 percent lower than prices off-line.
 But when he thought about how people actually shop online, and what they find valuable, he realized that low prices are not the big story. Selection is. The Internet offers variety that is simply impossible in traditional stores.
 When I wanted a contemporary light fixture in copper, I used Google to find a specialty retailer that had one I liked. I recently did the same thing to find a particular brand of Velcro-sealed envelope that I use for receipts when I travel. I regularly turn to Amazon.com and Alibris for books I cannot find in local bookstores or even libraries.
 Online shoppers are not just buying the same stuff for less money. They are buying different stuff. And they are much more likely to be getting exactly what they want than are off-line shoppers. Wal-Mart has low prices, but Walmart.com carries six times as many items as the largest Wal-Mart store, the article says. ''Amazon's slogan is world's biggest selection, not world's cheapest prices,'' said Professor Brynjolfsson, who has done pioneering research on information technology and productivity.
 All this variety could be overwhelming. But consumers do not have to sort through item by item. Online shopping includes tools like search engines and customer review sites, or Amazon's many referral services.
 You are not only more likely to find what you are looking for online. You are more likely to discover something you like that you did not already know about, Professor Brynjolfsson said. Partly through links and referrals, the Internet increases sales of obscure products. In 1997 and 1998, in the early days of Internet commerce, The MIT Press reported 12 percent annual increases in sales of backlist books, thanks to Internet retailers.
 ''In effect, the emergence of online retailers places a specialty store and a personalized shopping assistant at every shopper's desk,'' write Professor Brynjolfsson, Yu Hu, and Michael D. Smith in a November 2003 article in Management Science. ''This improves the welfare of these consumers by allowing them to locate and buy specialty products they otherwise would not have purchased due to high transaction costs or low product awareness.'' (The article, ''Consumer Surplus in the Digital Economy: Estimating the Value of Increased Product Variety at Online Booksellers,'' is available at http://ebusiness.mit.edu/erik/.)
 In the article, the authors, all economists, estimate just how much better off consumers are because of the variety available online. They look specifically at ''obscure titles,'' books that rank below the top 100,000 in Amazon.com sales and probably would not be carried in a traditional bookstore. (The typical Barnes & Noble or Borders superstore carries about 100,000 titles, while large independent bookstores stock about 40,000.)
 Using Amazon rankings and publisher data on 324 titles, the researchers determined that nearly half the book sales at Amazon, 46 percent in 2000, were of obscure titles.
 They then ''tried to calculate what people would have been willing to pay for these books versus what they actually did pay,'' Professor Brynjolfsson explained. That's the concept economists call ''consumer surplus.'' If you buy an ice cream cone for $2 but would have been willing to pay $5, you get $3 of consumer surplus.
 By estimating what the demand curve for books looks like, using well-established techniques, the researchers could estimate the consumer surplus for all buyers in this market.
 The results are striking. People are really happy to find obscure books, and would be willing to pay far more for them.
 ''The consumer surplus was about 70 percent of the purchase price for each book sold,'' Professor Brynjolfsson said. ''If a book was purchased for $20 on average, consumers would have been willing to pay on average up to $34.''
 All those benefits add up to big money -- around $1 billion in 2000. By comparison, Amazon's lower prices saved consumers about $100 million that year.
 ''So they got about 10 times as much value from the selection as they got from the lower prices and competition,'' Professor Brynjolfsson said. ''An order of magnitude more value was created from the increased choice and selection.''
 The same thing is almost certainly going on for goods like music CD's and DVD's. More speculatively, he suggests, we can imagine something similar happening with job services like Monster or even online dating markets.
 The combination of more choices and easier searches creates big benefits for consumers.
 ''I won't endeavor to try to measure the value of those relationships, but certainly there are a lot of people finding matches who previously maybe wouldn't have found matches or wouldn't have found as good matches,'' he said.
 Clearly, the implications of this research go far beyond Amazon or books. More and more economic value seems to be coming from giving consumers greater choice, off-line as well as online. Yet these intangible benefits, which represent real increases in the standard of living, are not picked up in most economic measures.
 ''If you spend the exact same dollars but you spend it over a broader set of choices, economic theory, and, to some extent, common sense, tells you you're getting more utility out of that -- if you can buy different flavors of ice cream instead of just one, or different colors and sizes of shirts,'' Professor Brynjolfsson said. ''Our methodology tries to quantify that for one piece of the economy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers at Strand Book Store at 12th Street and Broadway. A new study says independent, traditional stores like Strand carry fewer titles than online book vendors. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); BOOKSTORES (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); BRANDING (72%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (72%); LITERATURE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); BOOK SALES (66%); PERSONAL SHOPPER SERVICES (65%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Books and Literature; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%) Amazon.com Inc

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: Virginia Postrel

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



466 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Investor's Pullout Stirs Doubts About SCO Group

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The SCO Group received a large dose of cash and a vote of confidence for its anti-Linux campaign last October when BayStar Capital arranged a $50 million investment in the company.
 BayStar, a private investment firm in Larkspur, Calif., put $20 million of its own money into SCO, which is based outside of Salt Lake City, and convinced the Royal Bank of Canada to chip in another $30 million. The fact that BayStar made its investment after a referral from Microsoft, a Linux antagonist, only added to the impression of coordinated support for SCO and its strategy.
 But BayStar broke ranks last Thursday when it told SCO it wanted its money back, raising questions about the company's future and its ability to wage a lengthy legal attack on Linux. If SCO's legal campaign fades, the advance of Linux as a popular alternative to Microsoft as an operating system for computers used in business could accelerate as the threat of litigation recedes. 
 In an interview Wednesday, Lawrence R. Goldfarb, managing partner of BayStar, explained why his hedge fund originally invested in SCO and detailed for the first time what he regarded as the wayward corporate behavior on SCO's part that led to the recent split. 
 Mr. Goldfarb described a company that had become too engaged in publicity and debate with the passionate advocates of the free Linux operating system. SCO's management, he said, was traveling too much and spending too much when it should have been concentrating its efforts and resources on its legal strategy.
 ''The real issue for us was spending and focus,'' he explained. 
 The public statements from Darl McBride, SCO's chief executive, were too frequent and too grand for BayStar's liking.
 Linux is an operating system that is distributed free. It is improved and debugged by a worldwide network of programmers, who share the basic source code, in a model of software development known as open source. Linux has become a mainstream operating system for running server computers in data centers, competing with Microsoft's Windows and commercial Unix offerings, like Sun Microsystem's Solaris.
 SCO holds rights to Unix, and it asserts that Linux, a variant of Unix, violates its property rights. Others, including I.B.M., contend that SCO's legal rights are less far-reaching and that Linux is not in violation.
 In an open letter SCO put on its Web site last December, Mr. McBride took on the advocates of free software like Linux in terms that suggested the stakes in SCO's legal dispute are high indeed.
 ''There is no middle ground,'' Mr. McBride wrote. ''The future of the global economy hangs in the balance.''
 BayStar, it seems, would have preferred that managers pragmatically focused on running the business, mostly out of the limelight. The BayStar view was that courts would decide the validity of SCO's intellectual property claims eventually, and that having the company's executives embroiled in a running debate about the role of intellectual property rights was counterproductive.
 SCO was becoming a significant distraction for BayStar, a private hedge fund unaccustomed to publicity. BayStar was involved in 64 deals last year in technology, life sciences and media companies, with the average investment being $18 million. And SCO was only one.
 Microsoft initially recommended that BayStar take a look at SCO. But there is nothing unusual about that, Mr. Goldfarb said. BayStar often talks to the investment and venture arms of major technology companies like Microsoft, Intel and Cisco. ''It was evident that Microsoft had an agenda,'' Mr. Goldfarb said. 
 BayStar, he said, then did a lengthy assessment of SCO's intellectual property claims and whether, if the dispute ever came to a jury trial, the lawyer SCO has hired, David Boies, one of the nation's top litigators, could win.
 SCO's claims in suits against I.B.M., DaimlerChrysler and others that Linux is essentially an unauthorized version of Unix, which it holds the rights to.
 ''The issues for us were, first, is the intellectual property claim valid, and if it went to a trial would David Boies win or not?'' Mr. Goldfarb explained. ''Right, wrong or indifferent, it was our position that we would prevail.''
 Since its founding in 1998, BayStar has never before sent a letter to a company seeking its money back, as it has with SCO. In the letter last Thursday, BayStar asserted that SCO's behavior violated provisions of the investment agreement and that BayStar's convertible preferred stock be redeemed. In a statement on Friday, SCO said that it did not believe it had breached the provisions of its agreement with BayStar.
 ''We're unsure what their issues are,'' Marc Modersitzki, a SCO spokesman, said yesterday. He added that the BayStar letter was ''a notification, not a legal action,'' and that SCO hoped the two sides could settle the matter.
 For his part, Mr. Goldfarb said that with reforms in management practices to address BayStar's complaints, it might keep its funds in SCO. 
 SCO's stock price, which fell 38 cents yesterday to $6.80 a share, has dropped 30 percent since last Thursday, the day BayStar sent its redemption letter. And SCO's stock is down sharply from its high of more than $22 a share reached last October, shortly after the BayStar investment was announced.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Public statements from Darl McBride, the chief executive of the SCO Group, proved unsettling to the leadership of BayStar Capital. (Photo by Bloomberg News)
 Lawrence R. Goldfarb, managing partner of BayStar Capital. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (84%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); NETWORK SERVERS (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (67%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%); WEB SITES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Linux (Computer Operating System); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: SCO GROUP INC (92%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (72%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Microsoft Corp; Sco Group; Baystar Capital; International Business Machines Corp

TICKER: RY (TSX) (72%); RY (SWX) (72%); RY (NYSE) (72%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



467 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: A World Bank Mission To Bring Help to the Poor

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
When he visits foreign capitals, James D. Wolfensohn is treated like a head of state, given a red carpet welcome at the airport and police escorts, and banner headlines befitting the arrival of the head of the world's largest development agency.
 Back in Washington, in his gleaming headquarters two blocks from the White House, Mr. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, says he is treated like just another senior official whose mission to help the poor is decidedly out of favor, especially after Sept. 11.
 ''There is no doubt that today the priority is being given, and maybe correctly so, to terror, to conflict,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said in an interview last week. ''I would argue that there is also a need for a parallel and equally urgent attention to the question of development as a way to prevent terror, and to prevent conflict -- and I really passionately believe that.'' 
 At this weekend's annual spring meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Wolfensohn will be facing this familiar problem. 
 The United States, the most powerful member of both institutions, will be focusing on getting help for Iraq, even though the official agenda concentrates on global development issues.
 As he nears the end of a decade as president of the World Bank, Mr. Wolfensohn laments what he calls a growing imbalance in global spending by the world's governments -- with $900 billion spent annually on the military, $300 billion on support for the world's richest farmers, but only $56 billion on development assistance for the poor -- and he argues that if the priorities were reversed, the war on terrorism would be better served. People without hope, he argues, can be influenced by terrorists.
 Even as Mr. Wolfensohn, an appointee of President Bill Clinton, concedes that few people in the Bush administration share his convictions, he is bracing for a weekend of protests against him and the bank from the other side of the political spectrum: from activists who view him as selling out his early promise. Mr. Wolfensohn must also answer to the bank's board: the world's richest countries. 
 Yet this self-made millionaire investment banker, former Olympic fencer and accomplished cellist, has not given up the idea of a third term in the job.
 ''This is meaningful,'' he said. ''I'm not diminishing a career on Wall Street, but whether you do another deal is not important. This is important.''
 If President Bush is re-elected, Mr. Wolfensohn will not be considered the top choice for the post, however. Nor would his chances be much better if John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee, wins the White House and needs to repay people who helped him in the campaign.
 Even without a third term, Mr. Wolfensohn has left a considerable legacy, according to friends and foes alike, in unpredictable areas.
 ''In a funny kind of way, his most decisive contribution has been in the social sector, even though when he arrived he came with a great private investment reputation,'' said Mark Malloch Brown, the administrator of the United Nations Development Program and a former senior aide to Mr. Wolfensohn.
 A fireplug of a man with a thick shock of white hair at 70 years of age, Mr. Wolfensohn broke several taboos at the bank. He persuaded the bank to forsake infrastructure projects and move instead to finance public health, education and even culture projects, perhaps a natural inclination for the former head of Carnegie Hall and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
 His legacy includes an absolute drop in the number of people in poverty, a decline in illiteracy from 40 percent to 25 percent in the last 20 years and advances in public health throughout the poor world.
 He also got the bank to forgive two-thirds of the debt of 27 of the poorest nations, a pledge he made in his first meeting with nonprofit organizations, another precedent he set.
 John Cavanagh, the director of the Institute for Policy Studies, was at that first meeting and remembers that he was ''very impressed with Mr. Wolfensohn's openness, his willingness to open up the bank to new ideas.''
 Nonetheless, Mr. Cavanagh will be protesting on the streets this week because ''ultimately I think Jim has failed to transform the bank into an organ that can truly help poor people.''
 Nominated in 1995 to a post traditionally held by an American, Mr. Wolfensohn, who was born in Australia but is now an American citizen, has faced what many experts consider extraordinary challenges. With the cold war ended and globalization the rage, poor countries were told to place their faith in newly opening markets and expanded free trade, not handouts from wealthy nations.
 Money for development projects started to dry up, beginning with the Clinton administration.
 ''Jim has been one of the very few consistent public voices to speak out against the grossly irresponsible neglect of the world's poor by the United States, first and foremost, and other rich countries as well,'' said Jeffrey D. Sachs, the Columbia University economist.
 Mr. Wolfensohn proved to be a strict task master of developing nations, as well. When he first became president, he was told that any mention of corruption was verboten and was referred to only as the ''C'' word.
 ''So the first speech I made was about the cancer of corruption in poor nations,'' he said with a laugh.
 Perhaps appropriately, his role model is Robert S. McNamara, who served as president of the World Bank from 1968 to 1981 after seven years as Secretary of Defense during the Vietnam War and who also deplored the huge sums spent on arms.
 ''He'd always cry making his annual speeches about the human condition,'' said Mr. Wolfensohn, who lamented that the recent documentary ''Fog of War'' about Mr. McNamara failed to mention this second, redemptive act of public service by the former defense secretary.
 Like his role model, Mr. Wolfensohn tried to revive the human side of the bank's mission. And although the verdict is mixed around the world, with critics saying that his actions never measured up to his words, Nancy Birdsall, president of the Center for Global Development, said that in her travels she has been surprised by the slow but solid shift in opinion about the bank after Mr. Wolfensohn took over.
 ''The power of his personality and his persistence on these issues made people believe that the bank cared more about what was happening to them,'' she said.
 Jean-David Levitte, the French ambassador to the United States who has known Mr. Wolfensohn for many years, pointed to another side of Mr. Wolfensohn that explains his longevity in a difficult position: the organizational skills he learned as a businessman.
 ''He's a genius,'' Mr. Levitte said. ''And he speaks French beautifully.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James D. Wolfensohn says attention is needed ''to the question of development as a way to prevent terror, and to prevent conflict.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)Chart: ''James D. Wolfensohn''BORN -- Dec. 1, 1933, Sydney, AustraliaEDUCATION -- B.A., L.L.B., University of Sydney
 M.B.A., HarvardCAREER HIGHLIGHTS1963-77 -- Worked for a number of Australian and British investment banks1977-81 -- Executive partner, Salomon Brothers1981-95 -- President and chief executive, James D. Wolfensohn Inc.1980-91 -- Chairman of the board, Carnegie Hall1990-95 -- Chairman, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts1995-present -- President, World Bank GroupFAMILY -- Married to Elaine Botwinick, two daughters and one sonHOBBIES -- Playing the cello, fly fishing, going to concerts.(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); WAR ON TERROR (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TRENDS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Elizabeth Becker; James D Wolfensohn

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



468 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Opens New Attack Against Bush On 2 Fronts

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JIM RUTENBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry on Wednesday began what aides said would be an increasingly visible and combative challenge to President Bush, starting with a bus trip through the distressed Midwest and a television advertisement attacking Mr. Bush's Iraq record. 
 The moves, intended to define Mr. Kerry's candidacy, amount to a re-emergence of sorts by a candidate who largely yielded the spotlight to Mr. Bush after effectively winning the Democratic nomination in early March. 
 The television advertisement and the energized schedule came after two months in which Mr. Bush battered Mr. Kerry in advertisements intended to undercut him while he remained largely unknown to most of the country. 
 Mr. Kerry's aides repeatedly described Mr. Bush's spending as a waste, contending that voters were not paying attention to the race this long before Election Day.
 But two newspaper polls this week found that Mr. Bush had succeeded in raising doubts about Mr. Kerry's credibility and ideology. That finding, coming after three weeks of unwelcome news for Mr. Bush from Iraq and a commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks, unsettled many Democrats. Republicans said on Wednesday that Mr. Bush's overwhelming advantage over Mr. Kerry on the issues of terrorism and foreign affairs overrode any concerns voters might have had about the news that has besieged the White House in recent weeks.
 Evidence of Mr. Bush's continued strength renewed questions about the decision by Mr. Kerry's advisers to ignore the Bush attacks for now.
 As late as Friday, Mr. Kerry's campaign indicated that he would not begin his national television campaign until next week. Mr. Kerry's campaign announced Wednesday morning that instead, the advertisements would begin on Wednesday. An aide said that there had been no change in the timetable in response to the polls and that the advertisements began as soon as production was completed.
 The campaign said that Mr. Kerry would broadcast two advertisements in 17 states for 10 days at a cost of about $4.5 million. One advertisement attacks Mr. Bush's record on Iraq, while the other seeks to present Mr. Kerry as someone who could protect the nation from terrorists.
 Notably, Mr. Kerry's aides did not do what a number of Democrats have pushed them to do in response to attacks by the Bush campaign: run an advertisement that highlights Mr. Kerry's biography, in particular his war record, and begin to lay out some defining theme for his campaign.
 ''A minimum amount of positive information about Kerry is going to help,'' said Carter Eskew, a senior adviser to Al Gore in 2000. ''There's a certain hunger out there for information about this guy.''
 A Kerry adviser said the campaign would begin broadcasting a biographical advertisement when the campaign was ready, possibly as soon as next week.
 The adviser also said that the central theme of Mr. Kerry's campaign was in one of the spots released on Wednesday: ''Together, we can build a stronger America,'' Mr. Kerry says in the advertisement, speaking firmly and looking directly into the camera.
 Mr. Kerry's modest presence on the air was largely a matter of necessity. He has spent much of the last seven weeks raising money -- he raised almost $55 million this quarter, a record -- and hiring staff members to grapple with what has proved to be a relentless and efficient organization put together by Mr. Bush, who did not have an opponent in the primaries.
 Mr. Kerry's aides proclaimed that they would expand the number of states where they would seek to compete with Mr. Bush beyond the 17 or 18 that most parties view as the battlefields. Mr. Bush's advisers scoffed at the assertion as bravado, though some Democrats and Republicans said that such a calculation could not realistically be made until this summer.
 The developments underlined what has emerged as one of the critical strategic questions of this campaign: the extent to which television advertisements today shape the effect of an election seven months later.
 Advisers to Mr. Bush, who has spent roughly $45 million on advertisements attacking Mr. Kerry, said that recent history -- including, in particular, the 1996 election -- had proven the power of such advertisements. Mr. Bush's advisers, noting the polls this week, contended that the same thing was taking place now.
 ''This campaign will be close until the very end,'' said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's senior campaign adviser. ''But perceptions have begun to gel.''
 Mr. Kerry's advisers argued that the fact that the two men remained close in polls, despite the huge investment by Mr. Bush, suggested that most voters were not paying attention now. They argued that in such a volatile year voters will not start to form opinions until the fall.
 Tad Devine, a senior Kerry adviser, put it this way: ''If you're the incumbent president of the United States having spent $50 million in six to seven weeks trying to define yourself, and you're in a dead-heat horse race with a challenger who's just beginning to come into focus, I would submit you're in trouble.'' 
 Other Democrats, though, were not as sure. Stanley Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said that the period after Mr. Kerry effectively won the nomination was a time in which voters were paying attention. 
 ''This was a period of opportunity for Kerry and Bush,'' Mr. Greenberg said. He said that that window had not yet closed but that Mr. Kerry had a more difficult task now.
 ''I think it was a tough period for Kerry,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''He's been attacked on taxes and flip-flopping and on defense, and his personal negative has gone up significantly in the period. I'm assuming there will be an accelerating amount of information about Kerry and hopefully he'll win back some of that ground.''
 Aides said Mr. Kerry's decision to attack Mr. Bush's handling of the Iraq war reflected a conclusion that the conflict would continue to help define this contest, as it has for much of this campaign. Mr. Kerry's aides said he would follow up this television advertisement with a speech attacking Mr. Bush's Iraq policy next week, timed to coincide with the first anniversary of the appearance Mr. Bush made on an aircraft carrier to celebrate the fall of Baghdad. 
 In the other advertisement, he assures viewers he will remain committed to protecting the nation while focusing on improving the economy and health care, summing up by saying: ''My priorities are jobs and health care. My commitment is to defend this country.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry talked about what he said were Bush administration failures on the environment in a visit yesterday to Louisiana with Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, right. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Election Issues ; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2004; Finances

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (59%); MARY LANDRIEU (59%) Adam Nagourney; Jim Rutenberg; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



469 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Calms Investors On Growth

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, sent investors an implicit message on Wednesday: don't get ahead of yourselves.
 One day after Mr. Greenspan rocked financial markets by declaring that the threat of deflation had disappeared, investors in stocks and Treasury securities seemed calmed by the Fed chairman's strong hint that rising productivity and low inflation would allow the central bank to keep interest rates at rock-bottom levels a bit longer. 
 ''The crucial difference between now and in the past is an extraordinary productivity acceleration,'' Mr. Greenspan told the Congressional Joint Economic Committee. ''And that means that the price pressures are not anywhere near where they would be under normal circumstances.'' 
 Mr. Greenspan said that the economy had ''entered a period of more vigorous expansion.'' And later in the day the Federal Reserve's Beige Book, a compilation of anecdotal evidence from around the country, reported ''widespread'' growth from mid-February through early April.
 But Mr. Greenspan once again demonstrated his ability to keep his options open, projecting ambiguity without actually contradicting himself.
 The essence of his remarks on Wednesday was consistent with a theme voiced in recent weeks in official Fed statements and remarks by other senior Fed officials. That message was that economic growth appeared robust and job creation was likely to improve, but that the central bank would keep its policy of cheap money as long as the economy still had ''slack'' in the form of high joblessness.
 Investors are skeptical as they become more convinced that faster growth will force the Fed to raise rates as early as this summer to head off inflation. That is why the yield of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note -- to which many consumer rates are pegged -- jumped last week on the report of high inflation in March and surged again on Tuesday, after Mr. Greenspan said at a Senate hearing that there was no longer reason to worry about deflation. 
 On Wednesday, the yield on the 10-year note fell back, to 4.43 percent, down from 4.46 percent Tuesday, after Mr. Greenspan laid out a long list of reasons why the central bank might not have to raise interest rates in the next month or two. 
 Despite increased business confidence, for example, he said that ''many managers continue to exhibit an unusual reluctance to anticipate and prepare for future orders by adding to their capital stock.'' While corporate profits have climbed sharply in the last year, he said, corporations have been hoarding cash, and corporate reserves are higher than investment for the first time since 1975. 
 Mr. Greenspan was also skeptical about the surprisingly strong growth in employment in March, when the nation added 308,000 jobs. He noted that 85,000 unemployed workers exhausted their unemployment insurance benefits in the same month, more than double the number in September 2000. And he warned that unemployment, now 5.7 percent of the work force, might remain relatively high because companies were still squeezing productivity out of technology they bought in the late 1990's.
 ''The anxiety that many in our work force feel will not subside quickly,'' he told lawmakers. 
 Some committee members urged Mr. Greenspan to take his time before considering a rate increase. ''Wouldn't it be prudent to wait for more data before making changes in the accommodative monetary policy stance?'' asked Representative H. James Saxton, Republican of New Jersey. 
 The Fed reduced the federal funds rate on overnight loans to just 1 percent last summer, the lowest level since 1958. It is an easy-credit position that Mr. Greenspan has described as ''unsustainable'' over the longer term. On Wednesday he said that ''the federal funds rate must rise at some point.'' But he declined to say when that might be.
 But a growing number of analysts now question whether the central bank has been too lax for too long with its cheap money. Housing prices have soared in many parts of the country, as lower interest rates allowed buyers to bid up prices while keeping their monthly payments low. Household indebtedness has risen sharply, in large measure because low interest rates have allowed people to borrow more money without adding to their monthly debt-service payments.
 The issue now is whether cheap money has already fostered a ''housing bubble'' that could abruptly deflate if interest rates head higher. 
 Ron Paul, a Republican representative from Texas, sharply challenged Mr. Greenspan by suggesting that easy-money policies had lured people into assuming too much debt.
 ''We have a housing bubble,'' Mr. Paul told the Fed chairman, adding that the homeowners' rising debt was backed by the collateral of potentially inflated housing values. ''I don't see how we can have true wealth without savings,'' Mr. Paul said. ''I'm afraid we're confusing debt with assets.''
 The International Monetary Fund said Wednesday in its latest assessment of the world economy that the Federal Reserve would soon need to tighten monetary policy.
 ''If the recovery proceeds as expected, the time when the Federal Reserve will need to begin raising interest rates may be approaching,'' the fund said in its World Economic Outlook. The fund also reiterated its longstanding criticism of the United States budget deficits, saying that the Bush administration had yet to take ''credible measures'' in reducing the deficit. 
 And some analysts and even some lawmakers have expressed alarm about the sharp rise in commodity prices -- from steel scrap and rubber to farm products and oil.
 Inflation is ''not just looming, it's already here,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. ''It's not just commodity prices that are going up. It's producer prices and even consumer prices.''
 Mr. Greenspan insisted on Wednesday that commodity prices had only a limited connection to inflation, and that workers' wages were barely rising at all after adjusting for inflation. 
 Fed officials have in fact been eager to see companies exhibit greater ''pricing power,'' meaning a greater ability to raise prices. Even though Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that he was no longer worried about a broad-based stagnating deflation, he said the Fed's cheap-money policies had not yet ignited a broad-based rise in prices.
 ''As yet,'' he said, ''the protracted period of monetary accommodation has not fostered an environment in which broad-based inflation pressures appear to be building.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, left, talked with Senator Robert F. Bennett, right, and Representative H. James Saxton yesterday in Washington. (Photo by Doug Mills/ The New York Times)(pg. C12)Chart: ''Economic Conditions Improve''A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.Minneapolis -- Solid economic growth was reported, with gains in residential real estate, agriculture and consumer spending.San Francisco (Includes Alaska and Hawaii) -- Some businesses reported hiring or plans to hire additional permanent employees. Inflation stabilized in most sectors.Chicago -- Consumer spending and business investment increased. Producer and retail prices stabilized.Dallas -- Economic activity was helped by ''surprisingly strong'' retail sales. Businesses were optimistic but cautious.Kansas City, Mo. -- Solid improvements were made in the region's economy, with increases in retail sales, manufacturing and employment.St. Louis -- The region's economy ''expanded slowly.'' Some factory owners reported layoffs and plant closings. Retail sales increased.Cleveland -- The region's economy improved. Businesses successfully passed along higher production costs to customers.Boston -- Economic activity gained momentum, with manufacturers and retailers reporting increases from last year.New York -- Gradual improvements occurred in the labor market. Retail sales exceeded projections despite bad weather.Philadelphia -- Manufacturers reported increased orders and shipments. Businesses were optimistic about economic growth.Richmond, Va. -- Stronger growth in manufacturing was softened by fewer gains in the service sector.Atlanta -- Increases in transportation, manufacturing and construction costs were carried by businesses.(Source by Bloomberg News)(pg. C12)Map of the United States highlights the Federal Reserve's 12 districts. (pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); INFLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%) United States Economy; Productivity; Stocks and Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates; United States Economy

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); ROBERT BENNETT (54%); JIM SAXTON (54%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (77%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



470 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Multiple Suicide Attacks Kill Dozens in Iraq
Suicide attacks in Basra shattered a week of relative calm in Iraq. The death toll reached 68, including as many as 23 children on their way to school. More than 100 people, among them 4 British soldiers, were wounded in 5 coordinated explosions during morning rush hour. At least nine police officers were also killed. A1

The insurgency has driven two major contractors, General Electric and Siemens, to suspend most of their operations in Iraq, raising fresh doubts about the American-led effort to rebuild the country as hostilities continue. A1

The fragile peace effort in Falluja threatened to collapse as insurgents fired mortars and battled with marines, forcing the American military to stop the return of families who had fled the fighting. A15

The top Marine Corps general in Iraq said an American attack against insurgents in Falluja was ''inevitable'' within days unless the militants immediately surrendered their heavy weapons and ammunition. A15

Chirac Criticizes Iran
President Jacques Chirac of France criticized Iran for failing to comply fully with international inspections of its nuclear sites, and he suggested that Iran had violated the spirit of an agreement with France, Germany and Britain to curtail its nuclear programs. A10

Suicide Bombing in Riyadh
A bomber detonated explosives in a car in central Riyadh, killing at least 4 people and wounding 148. Similar recent attacks represent a shift in the war between the security services and Islamic extremists. A1

New Deaths in the Gaza Strip
Israeli troops killed at least 7 Palestinians and wounded about 25 in a second day of running clashes in the northern Gaza Strip. A10

North Korea to Continue Talks
The Chinese government acknowledged the secretive visit of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, and announced that he would continue with talks to defuse North Korea's nuclear standoff with America. A7

NATIONAL A16-25

Kerry Scolds Bush on Iraq And on Economic Policy
Senator John Kerry began what aides said would be an increasingly visible challenge to President Bush, beginning with a bus trip through the job-distressed Midwest and a television ad directly attacking Mr. Bush's Iraq record. A22

Deadly Storms in Midwest
Eight people were killed when a series of tornadoes tore through the Midwest, ripping off roofs, uprooting trees, tossing around cars and RV's and leveling the downtown section of rural Utica, Ill. A16

Jackson Indicted on Molestation
A grand jury in Santa Barbara indicted Michael Jackson on charges of child molestation, making it a virtual certainty he will stand trial in a case brought by prosecutors in December, officials said. A24

Pornography Actors Named
Investigators for the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services obtained a list of the legal names of 53 actors who were known to have had sexual contact with two actors infected with H.I.V. or with someone else who had sex with the two. A16

Asbestos Bill Faces Setback
A bill that would settle hundreds of thousands of asbestos lawsuits by creating a trust fund to compensate victims appears headed for a procedural defeat in the Senate. A18

Judge Blocks Medical Charts
Lawyers for the basketball star Kobe Bryant will not be allowed to get medical records or subpoena health care providers to testify about psychiatric treatment received by the woman who accused him of rape in Colorado last summer, the judge in the case ruled. A24

Bill Backs Generic Drug Imports
A bipartisan group of senators announced that they had reached agreement on a bill to allow imports of lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada and elsewhere. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Big Adirondack Land Deal Would Preserve Forests
More than a quarter million acres of privately owned forest, untamed river and back country wilderness in the Adirondack Mountains will be forever protected from development and opened to public uses, Governor Pataki plans to announce. B1

Alcohol Cited in Fatal Crash
An 82-year-old Nassau County man whose sport utility vehicle collided with a van full of young soccer players, killing himself and two of the children, had more than twice the legal limit of alcohol in his system, the authorities said. B1

Police Dial Translators
Officers in Queens were issued cellphones with access to a 24-hour service that offers translations in 150 languages in an effort aimed at domestic violence among immigrants. B1

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDUCATION

Rich Students Crowd Campus
Students from upper-income families are edging out those from the middle class at prestigious universities, according to university data. A1

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES C13

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

Heat, Bucks and Wolves Win
The Miami Heat beat the New Orleans Hornets, 93-63, in their N.B.A. playoff series. The Milwaukee Bucks defeated the Detroit Pistons, 92-88. The Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Denver Nuggets, 95-81. D3

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Software Chief Quits Posts
Sanjay Kumar resigned as chairman and chief executive of Computer Associates International as a criminal investigation into securities fraud and obstruction of justice reached the highest level of the company. A1

China Shelves Wireless Plan
China agreed to give up its plan to impose a software encryption standard for wireless computers that American giants like Intel and Microsoft have regarded as an unfair trade barrier. C1

Fed Chief Calms Investors
Investors in stocks and Treasury securities seemed calmed by comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan that suggested the central bank will keep interest rates at low levels for a bit longer. C1

Sony Is Said to Eye MGM
A consortium led by the Sony Corporation is in talks to acquire Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for about $5 billion in cash, executives close to the negotiations said. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Disclosure by the Kerrys; an indecent crackdown; Tony Blair's European ambition; making city pay raises count.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E9
Crossword E6
Weather D8
Public Lives B2


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (84%); INDICTMENTS (83%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INSPECTIONS (74%); TORNADOES (73%); SUICIDE (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); GRAND JURY (63%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); PORNOGRAPHY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); SIEMENS AG (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MICHAEL JACKSON (50%); KIM JONG IL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (71%) MIDWEST USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



471 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Leader Tells China He's Committed to Nuclear Talks

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 21 

 BODY:
The Chinese government on Wednesday finally acknowledged the secretive visit of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, and announced that he would continue with the six-nation talks organized by China to defuse North Korea's nuclear standoff with the United States.
 Until Wednesday, China had refused to confirm that Mr. Kim was even in Beijing, despite various reports and much tangible evidence of his presence. But after Mr. Kim left Beijing by train on Wednesday, the official Chinese media rushed out reports about the ''unofficial visit.'' 
 The accounts offered few hints of any major breakthroughs but suggested that North Korea was firmly committed to more talks. Mr. Kim told his hosts that he wanted a peaceful resolution to the crisis prompted by his country's nuclear program and that he would be flexible and patient in pursuing the six-nation negotiations, involving North and South Korea, China, Japan, the United States and Russia, the Chinese state media reported. 
 Reports in the South Korean news media said Chinese officials had urged Mr. Kim to be more flexible in negotiating with the United States. The reports also said Mr. Kim was willing to resolve the nuclear dispute during the next round of talks, scheduled for no later than June, but offered no specifics.
 Mr. Kim arrived in Beijing on Monday morning on his personal train and met with the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, at the Great Hall of the People, and attended a banquet with high-level officials. He also met with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao and former President Jiang Zemin, who remains the leader of China's military.
 Mr. Kim made a side trip to the city of Tianjin, and the South Korean media reported that he and Mr. Jiang ate Peking duck at a restaurant near Tiananmen Square. He also briefly visited a model farm on the outskirts of Beijing, before his train headed toward northeast China and, ultimately, North Korea. It was unclear when he would arrive in Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, and some reports indicated he might stop in the Chinese city of Shenyang.
 On Wednesday, Chinese television viewers, who had previously been given no information about Mr. Kim's visit, were suddenly shown images on state television of Mr. Kim shaking hands with Mr. Hu and embracing other leaders, including Mr. Jiang and Mr. Wen. The evening news dedicated more than 10 minutes of coverage to Mr. Kim, including videotape of him and other leaders at the banquet.
 On Mr. Kim's last visit to China, in 2001, a similar news blackout prevailed until he had returned to North Korea. On that trip, Mr. Kim paid a surprise visit to the Shanghai stock exchange. Chinese leaders have urged Mr. Kim to embrace the kind of market-driven economic reforms that have made China the world's fastest-growing economy.
 The first two rounds of the six-nation talks produced largely inconclusive results. Plans called for working groups from the nations to have begun their work, but the groups have not met yet. Some analysts said Chinese officials probably pressed Mr. Kim to commit to the working groups. Meanwhile, the United States has also been accused of dragging its feet on the working groups, a point denied by American officials.
 ''We are ready to move forward with a working group session as soon as all the parties, including North Korea, are ready for a meeting,'' said an official at the American Embassy in Beijing. ''We have long said that we will measure success in the talks through concrete progress.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); TRAINS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); TERRORISM (59%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; News and News Media

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (93%); HU JINTAO (78%); WEN JIABAO (57%) Jim Yardley; Kim Jong Il

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); NORTHEAST CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) North Korea; China; South Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



472 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Gets Labor-Pact Savings That Eluded His Predecessors

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The three-year deal that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg reached Tuesday night with the city's biggest municipal union, District Council 37, achieved a goal that has repeatedly eluded mayors over the last two decades: broad labor savings to help balance their budgets.
 Mr. Bloomberg not only persuaded District Council 37 to agree to lower starting salaries and benefits for newly hired workers -- important savings in themselves -- but also got the union to pledge to work closely with the administration to find additional workplace savings in the future.
 While Rudolph W. Giuliani and other mayors occasionally persuaded labor leaders to agree to savings, Mr. Bloomberg's predecessors did not make them a centerpiece of their administrations the way he has. Nor did those previous mayors achieve the wide-ranging labor savings that he obtained in the tentative contract with District Council 37, which has historically set the pattern for other city unions. 
 Independent analysts who examined the pact said yesterday that it broke significant new ground, particularly the provision for new workers to be paid 15 percent less in their first two years than current workers were. 
 ''This settlement in fact has cash savings from the 15 percent pay cut, and those savings are real,'' said Charles Brecher, research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed policy group. ''A lot of the productivity stuff we heard about in previous contracts wasn't real.''
 As part of the deal, the 121,000-member union also agreed to fewer sick days, holidays and vacation days for new workers. 
 City Hall officials insisted that they would seek to make the labor savings in Tuesday's deal a model for the agreements they negotiate with the city's other unions, including the teachers, firefighters and police. 
 ''This settlement for over 100,000 workers is an important one,'' said James F. Hanley, the city's labor commissioner. ''It stands for the proposition that productivity is a basic element in this round of bargaining.''
 Mayor Giuliani took a more scattershot approach to labor savings and obtained some, like stretching out pension contributions. But, budget experts say, Mr. Bloomberg has taken a more focused approach, trying in particular to scale back employee benefits and to a lesser extent wages for new workers -- tangible savings that will provide the city significant economic benefits down the road.
 ''What we've done is establish the principle, which I've said from the beginning was our basic belief -- we don't have any money, we've got to find ways to, if you will, create money,'' Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday. ''You do that by finding ways to do more with less.''
 After the District Council 37 deal was announced late Tuesday, two of the city's most powerful unions -- the United Federation of Teachers and the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association -- said they would not consider lower starting salaries for their members. 
 Officials from those unions noted that the city was already having a hard time recruiting enough teachers and police officers because pay levels are higher in the suburbs. Indeed, some labor leaders questioned the wisdom of District Council 37 officials agreeing to the lower starting salaries, saying it could eventually hurt the city's work force. 
 With regard to the police, Patrick Lynch, president of the patrolmen's union, said: ''I think a lower starting salary is wrong. It won't serve to solve the problem that the New York City Police Department faces: the city can't hire enough candidates to fill police vacancies. We cannot fill a recruitment class.''
 Bloomberg administration officials said they would not necessarily ask other unions to agree to the same provisions accepted by District Council 37.
 ''You don't have to be wedded to lower starting salaries,'' said one senior city official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ''D.C. 37 doesn't have sabbaticals, but the teachers do.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said last week that he considered teacher sabbaticals a luxury that should be scaled back to free money for raises and other spending.
 The District Council 37 accord, which union members will vote on over the next month, calls for no raise in the first year, but a one-time $1,000 cash payment that year. There would be a 3 percent raise in the second year and 2 percent in the third. District Council officials say their members' average salary is just under $30,000 a year. 
 As part of the deal, the city pledged an extra 1 percent pay increase in the third year if a panel of city and union officials agrees on specific productivity savings to pay for it. 
 The size of those savings and the means of achieving them are still undefined, but Dennis Sullivan, the chief negotiator at District Council 37, said yesterday that his union had some ideas. He spoke of having parking-meter workers collect more money in less time, trying a possible incentive program to encourage city workers to take fewer sick days, and administering the city's workers' compensation program less expensively. 
 Mr. Sullivan rejected use of the word concessions in discussing the lower starting pay and less generous benefits for new workers.
 ''I like to call them benefit modifications,'' he said. ''Obviously, they will help the city's bottom line.''
 Mr. Bloomberg negotiated the changes at a time when the nation's economy is growing, inflation has reached its highest level in years, and the city's budget picture is not as difficult as a year ago. In contrast, Mayor Abraham D. Beame obtained far-reaching, although temporary, productivity concessions in 1975, but that was when the city was near bankruptcy.
 To be sure, other mayors have negotiated labor savings, but their savings were generally more limited than the District Council 37 contract. In 1980, the sanitation union negotiated a deal with Mayor Edward I. Koch to save money by having two workers on a truck rather than three. Mr. Koch persuaded unions to agree to shorter vacations, but they won longer vacations in subsequent contracts.
 Carl Haynes, president of Teamsters Local 237, which represents 10,000 city workers, did not see the district council's contract as a model. ''I don't like the 15 percent pay cut,'' he said. ''At this point I can't say I'd accept the same thing. That contract serves as a framework for me to go on, but I want to negotiate about the nuances that affect my members.''
 Mr. Bloomberg originally said that all raises had to be offset by corresponding productivity increases, but on Tuesday he acknowledged that the first-year cash payment and second-year 3 percent raise would not be financed by labor savings. Still, he said proudly that every cent of the third-year raise would be financed by labor savings.
 City officials acknowledged yesterday that they had quietly created a $200 million labor reserve in recent years to help finance the District Council 37 contract and future accords.
 But Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan city agency, questioned whether the labor savings Mr. Bloomberg gained would be enough to pay for the district council's raises in the third year. 
 ''We're still waiting for details,'' she said.
 Yesterday some rank-and-file city workers criticized the District Council 37 accord. Eramis Cruz, 52, an assistant at the city's Housing Authority, said: ''I don't think it's fair for the new workers to get 15 percent less. It should be equal work for equal pay.'' 
 He said he feared that the district council's contract would adversely affect negotiations involving his own union, Teamster Local 237.
 ''Right now we're fighting just to keep what we have,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); SICK LEAVE (64%) Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Police; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (59%) District Council 37; United Federation of Teachers; Patrolmen's Benevolent Assn

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Steven Greenhouse; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



473 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; Sports of The Times

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Queens Is Better Than Manhattan for Jets-Olympics Facility

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
PLOPPING the Olympics in New York sounded like a bad idea, right from the start. Even when the Jets promised to subsidize part of the cost of the Olympic stadium, it still brought out my inner Nimby.
 I'm no urban planner. I'm just a journalist who has observed citizens getting so twittery about Olympic gold-medal ceremonies or touchdowns on the tube that they acquiesce to expensive new stadiums in their own backyards. The bills come due later. 
 But I never truly realized how impractical the plan for 2012 was until I spent last Friday at the Regional Plan Association's annual meeting, devoted to Manhattan's far West Side.
 Most of the planners seemed respectful of the Olympics, but many said it made no sense to plunk a costly facility alongside the Hudson River when so much else needs to be done.
 It has long been my opinion that my hometown, New York, does not need the Summer Games to put it on the map. The evidence is that, for good and for evil, people know where we are and what we do. 
 The push for the Summer Games here has always had the whiff of Wild West real estate madness. In a borough where the cost of an average apartment is now reaching seven digits, who would make money off expansion on the far West Side? And where would working-class people be shunted? Follow the money, not the Olympic torch.
 The conference, titled ''Make No Small Plans,'' came while the city and state governments are pushing to have shovels in the ground by July 2005, when the International Olympic Committee will choose the host for the 2012 Summer Games.
 New York probably has only a sliver of a chance, what with the strength of the opposition (Paris and London, for openers) as well as America's unpopularity overseas because of Iraq. Many I.O.C. delegates would not have been encouraged by the drift of the planning conference.
 What the city really needs, said Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat from Brooklyn, is comprehensive transportation linking Long Island and New Jersey to Lower Manhattan, plus an extension of the No. 7 subway line to the West Side.
 The proposed Olympic-Jets facility? ''I'm going to reserve judgment,'' Schumer said. 
 Also, Richard Ravitch, a war horse of 40 years of New York government and business, worried about diverting public funds from school construction and other projects. 
 At this stage of the game, the Schumer and Ravitch responses were like a couple of touchdowns early in the second half -- a definite attention-getter. 
 There was plenty of other skepticism. Charles Euchner of Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government talked about the ''stale old recipes'' of stadiums and convention centers, and he warned that sports do not generate even 1 percent of a city's economy, despite ''30 free pages of advertising every day,'' meaning the sports pages. 
 Jonathan Barnett of the Urban Design Program at the University of Pennsylvania predicted a lifeless ambience around the proposed facility and said, ''I'm afraid the whole West Side plan will work better if the stadium were not there.'' He also worried about cutting off the waterfront.
 Support for new stadiums came from Joe Berridge of Urban Strategies, based in Canada, who noted the flow of fans and money when the Skydome was opened on the fringe of downtown Toronto in 1989. Thad Sheely, a stadium development official with the Jets, stressed that the proposed facility would have a retractable roof that would accommodate many other events. And Ken McAvoy of Reed Exhibitions stressed the importance of conventions for New York's economy. 
 Several planners brought up the costs and problems from erecting a platform over the massive train yards and coping with bus traffic through the area and the lack of tunnels to move subway traffic westward -- three days before Monday's collision in maxed-out Penn Station.
 Perhaps the most practical comment came from Brian Hatch of New York, who, as deputy mayor of Salt Lake City, helped develop a modest light-rail system and an area west of downtown before the 2002 Winter Games. 
 The new goal of the I.O.C., Hatch reminded everybody, is for smaller, cheaper Games to accommodate potential host nations in Africa and Latin America.
 That hope seems counterintuitive, given the current scramble to get Athens up to speed. But Hatch urged the NYC 2012 people to ''fix the bid'' within the next year and stress a backup plan for an Olympic stadium at Shea Stadium and the site of the 1939 and 1964-65 World's Fairs, at a fraction of the cost. 
 The concept of an Olympic base in Queens may sound like small change to the land-rush promoters of NYC 2012 and it may sound like outer-borough tackiness to the Manhattan-centric ownership of the Jets. But I say: tough. 
 New York needs a lot of things, but not the 2012 Summer Games. The NYC 2012 people should downscale their improbable bid to hold this floating, extraneous circus, and fast.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Jets want a stadium for their home games and as a potential site for the 2012 Olympics on Manhattan's far West Side, above rail yards. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (73%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (77%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



474 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: A Call to Arms by Abortion Rights Groups

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
For the first time in 12 years, a coalition of abortion rights advocates will hold what they hope will be a major march in Washington on Sunday, trying to return the issue to the forefront of American politics -- and to highlight what they contend is the Bush administration's extremism.
 They say President Bush has stayed ''below the radar'' on abortion and reproductive-health issues, as Kate Michelman, president of Naral Pro-Choice America, put it, and are trying to convey their sense of threat to the voters, after several legislative defeats and months of battling a Congress and a White House that are led by allies of the anti-abortion movement.
 ''We have to march to make people stop and think,'' Ms. Michelman said Wednesday at a news conference. ''There are two facts that don't quite fit together: Most Americans support a woman's right to choose, and yet the most powerful political institutions of our government are in the hands of people who want to take that right to choose away.'' 
 The abortion rights movement faces several hurdles, including an election campaign debate dominated by issues of war and the economy, and an anti-abortion movement that has developed a strategy of restricting abortion by incremental and often politically popular steps.
 With Republicans in control of Congress and the White House, abortion opponents also have the advantage of allies who can set the legislative agenda and frame the debate. That was underscored Tuesday night, when Vice President Dick Cheney attended an awards dinner for the National Right to Life Committee and hailed it for leading ''a great movement of conscience.''
 Indeed, leaders of the anti-abortion movement said they were not perturbed by the march. ''Whatever happens Sunday, it will not shift where most Americans are on this issue,'' said Olivia Gans, director of American Victims of Abortion, an outreach project of the National Right to Life Committee.
 Ms. Gans and other anti-abortion leaders say that most Americans do not support the broad constitutional right to abortion set forth in the Roe v. Wade ruling 31 years ago.
 Similarly, Terry Holt, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said, ''The president's policies on family issues are right in the heart of the mainstream.'' The legislation that Mr. Bush has advanced -- like the ban on the procedure that critics call partial-birth abortion -- has ''overwhelming support'' among the American people, Mr. Holt said.
 In general, Mr. Bush has a record of opposing most legalized abortion, with exceptions for cases of rape, incest and when the life of the pregnant woman is threatened. He embraced a platform four years ago that calls for an outright ban on abortion, though he says the country is not ready for it. These days, he more typically speaks of building a ''culture of life.''
 Leaders of the abortion rights movement assert that Mr. Bush is actually pursuing an agenda that restricts both abortion and access to family planning and other reproductive health services, at home and abroad. His emphasis on programs that promote abstinence only, for example, is draining money from other family planning services, they say.
 ''The government's role in reproductive health care should be to ensure access, not to take it away,'' said Gloria Feldt, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, ''not to tell people what to do with their lives, not to put the long arm of the politician into the examining room.''
 Abortion rights leaders also say that Mr. Bush has nominated some staunch opponents of Roe v. Wade as federal appellate judges, contending that such selections indicate what he would do if a vacancy occurred on the Supreme Court. The winner of the presidential election may get the chance to appoint two or more justices.
 In short, many abortion rights leaders say that these rights are more imperiled than they have been since 1992 -- the year of the last large-scale abortion rights march, when the Supreme Court was considering a case that could have overturned Roe. The justices eventually affirmed Roe, and President Bill Clinton's election later that year gave advocates of abortion rights a firewall for the rest of the decade.
 The ''March for Women's Lives'' this Sunday will be led by a coalition of seven women's and civil liberties groups. They are the National Organization for Women, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Black Women's Health Imperative, the Feminist Majority, Naral Pro-Choice America, the National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health and the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. The march is also endorsed by more than 1,400 other groups, including unions and religious and health care organizations.
 The march has a new message intended for a younger and more diverse audience, focusing on privacy and access to a full range of reproductive health services, not just abortion. But the underlying goal is the same as most marches on Washington -- to flood the capital with a wide cross-section of Americans and send a powerful message.
 ''This is, to us, just a beginning,'' said Eleanor Smeal, president of the Feminist Majority. ''We are going to make women's rights, and especially reproductive rights, another third rail of American politics, just like Social Security. This is no longer going to be a political football debated every two or four years.''
 The marchers are to include a heavy contingent of celebrities, like Ashley Judd, Whoopi Goldberg and Julianne Moore. But organizers were also careful to highlight the more grassroots elements of the coalition.
 Tim Butz, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Nebraska, said he would join at least 300 Nebraskans at the march, including many who were coming by bus. ''They have to travel over 30 hours on the bus,'' he said. ''That really shows a lot of commitment.'
 Susan Hilt, 55, of Lenexa, Kan., also plans to attend. Ms. Hilt, a manager of a storage facility, said, ''I'm old enough to remember before Roe v. Wade. I live in fear that they might take that right away from people. It appalls me. Personally, I don't think that's a choice I could make, but it's sure as heck not my business to tell anybody else what they can do.''
 Christina Kucera, spokeswoman for Planned Parenthood of Louisiana and the Mississippi Delta, said she was playing ''mother hen'' to three busloads of protesters making the 20-hour trip from New Orleans and Baton Rouge. ''This is my first big reproductive rights march,'' Ms. Kucera said. ''I'm incredibly excited.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (73%); BUDGETS (70%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (66%); SEX OFFENSES (66%) Abortion; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Birth Control and Family Planning; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: NARAL PRO-CHOICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (57%) Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Washington (DC) 

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



475 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Chief Executive Resigns At Computer Associates
Sanjay Kumar resigned as chairman and chief executive of Computer Associates as a criminal investigation into suspected securities fraud and obstruction of justice reached the highest level of the company.
 His resignation came as directors tried to save Computer Associates from a criminal indictment that could seriously damage its business. [Page A1.]

A Mission to Bring Help to the Poor
James D. Wolfensohn has not given up on the idea of a third term as president of the World Bank, asserting that the mission of the bank is crucial. ''There is no doubt that today the priority is being given, and maybe correctly so, to terror, to conflict,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said in an interview. ''I would argue that there is also a need for a parallel and equally urgent attention to the question of development as a way to prevent terror, and to prevent conflict.'' [World Business, Section W.]

SCO Group Experiences a Setback
A firm that invested in the SCO Group wants its money back, raising questions about the future of SCO and its ability to wage a legal attack on the Linux operating system. [C5.]

F.A.A. to Order More Cuts at O'Hare
Because of continued delays at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, more reductions in traffic will be ordered there. [C3.]

Opposition Over Ecuador Oil Drilling
Burlington Resources' plan to drill oil wells in a remote part of the Ecuadorean Amazon continues to meet with intense opposition. [C2.]

Stock Indicators Rise Slightly
The major stock indicators rose as concerns about interest rates receded. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 5.94 points, to 1,124.09. The Nasdaq composite index gained 17 points, 1,995.63. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.77 points to 10,317.27 [C7.]

Microsoft Extends Provision in Deal
Microsoft agreed to extend a provision of its antitrust settlement with the Justice Department after concerns that the company was taking too long to enact the agreement. [C7.]

Weighing Rules That Govern Trades
If big institutional investors are allowed to do what they want to do, will individual investors suffer? That has emerged as a big issue for the S.E.C. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [C7.]

Testimony in Retrial of Ex-Banker
A prosecution witness against the former investment banker Frank P. Quattrone testified about the months before an e-mail message that is at the heart of his trial. [C6.]

Ford Profit More Than Doubles
Ford Motor said its first-quarter earnings more than doubled, in large part because of cost cuts and favorable pricing trends. Ford's results topped those of General Motors for the first time in three years. Both Ford and G.M., which reported its profit on Tuesday, easily beat Wall Street estimates. Ford broke from a recent cycle in Detroit by making more money in its automotive operations than it did from financing car loans. [C3.]

The Coca-Cola Company said first-quarter profit rose 35 percent. [C11.]

EBay Inc. said first-quarter earnings surged 92 percent, the most in a year. [C5.]

J.P. Morgan Chase said first-quarter profit was up 38 percent from a year earlier. [C3.]

A New Theme for the TBS Network
TBS, the cable network, is starting a campaign that introduces the theme ''Very funny'' and eliminates ''Superstation'' from its name. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C3.]

Beware of Swindles on the Web
Various frauds, like bogus loan brokers and fake invoices, can plague smaller companies. Small Business. [C6.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,317.27 up 2.77Nasdaq composite -- 1995.63 up 17.0010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.43% down 0.03The euro -- $1.1848 down 0.0061The dollar -- 109.35 yen up 0.97Graph tracks the share price of Ford Motor Co., since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); COMPANY EARNINGS (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CA INC (90%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); SCO GROUP INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (90%); FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (69%) ECUADOR (91%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2004



476 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Broadcast networks join forces against their cable rivals in a battle for commercials.

BYLINE: By Nat Ives

 BODY:
IT has been a spring of discontent for agencies and marketers, who are upset over the rising cost of advertising on broadcast networks at a time when viewers are steadily gravitating to cable. Starting Monday, the networks, in an unprecedented alliance, will strike back with a campaign that sticks up for broadcast and belittles cable's reach. 
 For at least several weeks, ads backed by ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC, UPN and the WB will appear with the theme, ''People who need people buy broadcast.'' The first ad, one of three initially planned, shows a New York City sidewalk packed with people. An arrow points to one man in the teeming crowd, and the accompanying text says, ''This guy saw your spot on cable.'' 
 Complaints from agencies and marketers are growing with the approach of annual negotiations between the networks and agencies to buy commercial time during the coming fall season. The process is known as the upfront market because networks sell as much as 80 percent of their commercial time in the spring or summer. 
 Last May, agencies agreed to spend more than $9 billion to buy commercial time on the six broadcast networks during the 2003-2004 prime-time season. That figure was roughly $1 billion more than they committed to spend the year before, even as viewers continued to gravitate toward cable channels as well as other media like the Internet.
 The cable upfront market last year brought in an estimated $6 billion, up from about $4.8 billion the year before.
 Fearing a repeat of soaring rate increases, agencies and marketers this month spoke out at the annual management conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, known as the Four A's. Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive at the WPP Group, which owns agencies like J. Walter Thompson and Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, told attendees, ''There is a tremendous amount of frustration amongst clients having to pay more for less.''
 ''There is no point in kidding ourselves'' that clients will accept increases up to seven times the inflation rate for commercial time on broadcast television, Sir Martin said.
 The Association of National Advertisers and the Four A's have formed a committee called the Network Upfront Discussion Group that is scheduled to meet Thursday to consider changes to the upfront market that might reduce the continuous pressure to pay more.
 The broadcast networks' campaign, with an initial budget of about $300,000, will appear in the trade publications Advertising Age, Adweek, Brandweek and Mediaweek as well as The New York Times. The ads were created by the New York office of The NBC Agency, NBC's in-house advertising and promotion division.
 The last time broadcast networks joined to advocate broadcast TV as an ad vehicle was in 1990, when ABC, CBS and NBC formed the Network Television Association. The association disbanded five years later.
 The new collaboration was started by the Television Bureau of Advertising in New York, the trade association of local broadcast network affiliates. ''Everybody was tired of hearing about cable's gains when we knew that the top-rated cable shows have ratings that are so small they'd be canceled if they were on a broadcast network,'' said Gary Belis, vice president for communications at the bureau. 
 The broadcast channels agreed to meet after Mr. Belis offered the bureau offices as neutral territory, writing in an e-mail message, ''It is high time we unite and take up arms against a common enemy.''
 Jon Nesvig, president for sales at Fox, which is majority owned by the News Corporation, said, ''This is the time, with all of us in broadcast TV taking the brunt of the charges, whether it's from cable guys or syndicators or other people, to tell our side of the story.''
 The co-chief executive at the WB, Jordan Levin, said that all the publicity about cable was unwarranted. ''You go back through and even shows like 'Queer Eye for the Straight Guy,' which was obviously a game-changer for Bravo, doesn't come close to what the networks deliver and can generate with a hit like 'The Apprentice,''' he said. 
 Bravo is owned and managed by Rainbow Media Holdings, a division of Cablevision Systems, and the NBC unit of General Electric. The WB is a joint venture of Time Warner and the Tribune Company.
 Even excluding a monster success like ''The Apprentice,'' broadcast networks dominate, according to data by Nielsen Media Research. The TNT network, the top ad-supported cable channel, in the season through April 11, attracted a weekly average of 1.036 million viewers in the highly sought-after 18-to-49-year-old age group, according to figures from Nielsen. By comparison, ''Good Morning Miami'' on NBC drew an average audience of nearly 4.8 million in the same age group.
 Broadcasters have not been entirely shy about suggesting prices should go up again. Leslie Moonves, chairman and chief executive at the CBS Television division of Viacom, said this month that the network might be able to increase prices by more than 10 percent.
 But cable channels continue to proliferate, single out new audiences and draw new advertisers. The latest entry was announced yesterday, when two longtime cable executives said they were forming a Gospel Music Channel. 
 Some advertisers do not consider the narrower appeal of some cable programs a disadvantage, because their ads can take aim at narrower audiences. 
 ''Over the past few years, we have increased our spending on cable because the audience is segmenting,'' said Ryndee Carney, a spokeswoman at General Motors. ''General Motors has such a broad product portfolio that we are trying to reach as many people as possible in every demographic.''
 But Ms. Carney stressed that G.M. had not cut broadcast spending. ''It's not so much that we're taking it out of Peter's pocket to pay Paul,'' she said. ''We have dollars we can choose to use in many ways.'' 
 Cable executives said that their programs could appeal to sharply defined market segments whose members are more engaged in the programs they have sought out than broadcast viewers are. ''It's more important to run a commercial in an environment that consumers are relating to than an environment where they may not have a connection with the program,'' said Paul Iaffaldano, a senior vice president at The Weather Channel in Atlanta.
 The complaints and campaign alike also reflect attempts to establish bargaining positions, said Michael Drexler, chief executive at Optimedia U.S. in New York, a media services agency. 
 ''Of course it's jockeying,'' Mr. Drexler said. ''The fact is that the broadcast networks are an effective medium,'' he added, while noting that cable is increasing its appeal, too. ''But there's a tipping point and we're fast approaching that tipping point.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Advertising column in Business Day on Friday, about a campaign to promote advertising on broadcast networks, included an outdated reference to the parent of the Bravo cable channel. It is fully owned by NBC, not by a partnership between the network and Cablevision Systems.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The six broadcast networks will run print ads in several publications, seeking to hold advertisers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Television; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); JWT (65%); WPP PLC (58%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



477 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Novartis Is Ready to Begin Merger Talks With Aventis

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Paul Meller, in Brussels, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: LONDON, April 22 

 BODY:
Novartis, the Swiss drug company, sought on Thursday to call the French government's bluff, saying it would enter talks with Aventis toward a merger that would create the world's second-largest drug company.
 French government officials have spoken in favor of a hostile takeover offer for Aventis, the French-German pharmaceutical company, made by Sanofi-Synthelabo in January. The officials say they want to ensure that France remains home to a leading pharmaceutical company.
 Novartis said last month that it would not bid for Aventis unless the French government stopped supporting Sanofi's $59 billion bid. 
 It is unclear what, if anything, has changed in Paris. But this week, Aventis's chief executive, Igor Landau, met with Patrick Devedjian, the French industry minister, while Novartis's chief executive, Daniel Vasella, met with Wolfgang Clement, the German economics minister. 
 And Raymund Breu, the chief financial officer of Novartis, in a conference call on Thursday, noted that Jacques Chirac, the French president, and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany had said in February that any deal for Aventis would be up to the markets. 
 Sanofi officials said they were unruffled by the Novartis announcement. ''We're completely on track with our timetable,'' Sanofi's chief financial officer, Marie-Helene Laimay, said on Thursday. One executive close to Sanofi said that the company had no plans to raise its bid in the near term, because it was awaiting the results of a French court decision about the legality of the bid. Novartis could take several months to actually make any bid, this executive added.
 Shares of Aventis rose 4.9 percent, to 65.8 euros, or $77.88 in trading on the Paris exchange. Sanofi's shares also rose, gaining 3 percent, to 55.85 euros. But shares of Novartis fell 2 percent, to 56.20 Swiss francs, or $42.76, in Zurich trading. 
 A combination of Aventis and Novartis would create a world leader second only to Pfizer of the United States. A combined company would be the leading manufacturer of cancer drugs. But some analysts and investors are skeptical that an acquisition makes sense for Novartis.
 ''In short term we have no need to look into acquisitions,'' Mr. Vasella of Novartis said in Thursday's conference call. ''But we have a duty to our shareholders to look beyond the next few years,'' and make sure Novartis is competitive, he said.
 ''We have always said we expect further consolidation in the industry, and there are benefits of size, in marketing in particular.'' 
 Mr. Breu, the Novartis chief financial officer, said the combination of Aventis and Novartis had a ''convincing industry logic, and creates value.''
 Novartis considered factors including ''research investment, employment and access to vaccines,'' Mr. Breu said. The two companies are in exploratory talks, and have not discussed price, he said.
 Aventis invited Novartis to enter into talks and is keen to thwart Sanofi's bid. Novartis, however, has a history of looking at possible deals but not following through, and investors and analysts question whether any combination with Aventis will actually happen.
 ''The three uncertainties are the timing, the structure, and the price'' of any deal, said Marc Booty, a pharmaceutical analyst with Commerzbank in London.
 Novartis has confirmed what the market has suspected for months, Mr. Booty added, ''but where does that get us?'' 
 If a deal is not reached between two of the three companies, some analysts say that one of them could eventually wind up in the hands of non-European competitors. 
 If the French government persists in opposing a deal, it may lead to a confrontation with the European Commission. If there were a deal between Novartis and Aventis, and the French government intervened, ''we'd need to see if that intervention is legitimate,'' said Amelia Torres, a European Commission spokeswoman, in a telephone interview Thursday evening. 
 Novartis is a much larger merger partner for Aventis. On Thursday, Novartis reported $1.29 billion in net income, a 22 percent increase from a year ago, on sales of $6.64 billion for the first quarter of 2004. Sanofi reported an 11.9 percent increase in sales for the quarter on Thursday, to 2.19 billion euros ($2.6 billion). Aventis's first-quarter results will be released next Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); MERGERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); CANCER DRUGS (73%); CANCER (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (96%); NOVARTIS AG (92%); NOVARTIS GROUPE FRANCE SA (91%); PFIZER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Novartis Ag; Sanofi-Synthelabo Sa; Aventis

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (96%); SANF (BIT) (96%); SAN (PAR) (96%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (96%); NVS (NYSE) (92%); NOVN (SWX) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (56%) Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); ZURICH (79%) FRANCE (98%); GERMANY (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



478 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices Rise More Than Forecast; Job Data Is Still Soft

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22 

 BODY:
Rising food prices helped push wholesale prices markedly higher last month, the Labor Department reported Thursday. But some analysts were reluctant to conclude that the report pointed to broad-based inflation.
 The Labor Department also said that initial claims for jobless benefits fell 9,000 in the week ended April 17, to 353,000 -- a figure weaker than the 340,000 analysts estimated. Economists say the job market has still not shown signs of sustained recovery. And while weekly jobless claims declined, the four-week moving average of filings, which smoothes out weekly fluctuations, rose 2,250, to 347,000, the second consecutive gain. 
 Still, the reports helped to moderate market worries that the Federal Reserve would move quickly to increase short-term interest rates. On Wall Street, stock prices closed broadly higher on Thursday. 
 The Producer Price Index, a measure of prices paid to farms, factories and refineries, climbed 0.5 percent in March. Excluding food and energy, the core index gained 0.2 percent.
 The price data proved stronger than Wall Street expected. Economists surveyed had looked for a 0.3 percent rise over all, with core prices up 0.1 percent. While the rise in core prices was above estimates, some analysts said this increase was mild nonetheless. Others, though, focused on near-term price acceleration. In the first three months of 2004, core wholesale prices increased at a 2.1 percent annual pace, well above last year's 1 percent.
 In a research note, Steven Wood of Insight Economics said, ''Producer prices have been rising more quickly, a signal that inflationary pressures are building.'' 
 Some wholesale prices posted steep rises. Food costs jumped 1.5 percent in March, the biggest increase since October, accounting for more than half the rise in overall producer prices last month. Energy prices continued higher. The cost of home heating oil rose 11 percent and gasoline prices were up 1.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (94%); PRODUCER PRICES (92%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); HEATING OIL (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%) United States Economy; Producer Price Index; Food; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



479 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 4; JOURNEYS

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours Charleston, S.C.

BYLINE: By RICHARD B. WOODWARD

 BODY:
WITH its well-groomed streets lined with Colonial and antebellum mansions, gardens of magnolias and hibiscus and top-drawer antiques stores, Charleston can seem more like a series of postcards than the center of a metropolitan area with a half-million people. But as host to local events that have had grave national ramifications -- the first shots of the Civil War were fired in its harbor -- the city also has a layered and turbulent history. Not all of it is attractive. For almost two centuries Charleston thrived as a central port in the slave trade. Still, with walker-friendly dimensions, dozens of bed-and-breakfasts, upscale shopping and maybe the South's best restaurants outside New Orleans, it reveals itself as more than a pretty place. RICHARD B. WOODWARD

Friday

3:45 p.m.
1) The Boys, and Girls, in Gray
Pat Conroy, a graduate whose book ''The Lords of Discipline'' is set at a school much like the Citadel, and Shannon Faulkner, who in 1993 sought to become the first woman to gain admission to its Corps of Cadets, have turned the Citadel (171 Moultrie Street, 800-868-3294), top, into a tourist must-see. Tour buses roll in to see the dress parade, Fridays during the school year (usually at 3:45 p.m.). Cadets in Confederate gray march around central Summerall Field, accompanied by bagpipers. Stroll the grounds at any time of day and you're likely to see the knobs (first-year cadets of both sexes with their hair cut extremely short) and other examples of an institution with its own set of peculiar traditions.

6:30 p.m.
2) A Drink and a Smoke
The long and accommodating bar at McCrady's (2 Unity Alley, 843-577-0025), in a former 1778 tavern, attracts a sleek business crowd at lunch and after work. Bartenders serve from a list of excellent wines, bottles of which are stacked to the ceiling. Glasses run from $6 for the sommelier's suggestion of the week to $15 for a Flora Springs Meritage from California. You can smoke indoors in Charleston, and many do.

7:30 p.m.
3) Deep-Fried Dinner
The old-fashioned menu at Hank's Seafood Restaurant (10 Hayne Street, 843-723-3474) will fry your brain with fried everything: grouper, flounder, oysters and sweet potatoes. There are also bouillabaisse and grilled fish. Hank's attracts a cheerful and mixed crowd -- racially and socio-economically -- and the wait around the bar during the peak dining hours can be crowded.

Saturday

9 a.m.
4) Getting the Basics Right
Nearly every food magazine has raved about Robert Stehling's Hominy Grill (207 Rutledge Avenue; 843-937-0930). The basics are so well done here that you realize how poorly they're often done elsewhere. Biscuits, eggs, cornbread, grits and salads are not only enlivened by the freshest ingredients, they're sparked with touches like ginger in the cole slaw and fried green tomatoes in the BLT's. The setting isn't fancy, and the neighborhood has been up-and-coming for years and still hasn't come up. But you can't go wrong at breakfast, lunch or dinner. The priciest dish at any meal is $19.95 (a strip steak) and most are under $10. Eat outdoors in temperate weather -- and expect to wait in any weather.

10:30 a.m.
5) The Big Houses
Two remarkable houses -- about two miles from each other in the city's historic district -- should be seen together because they embody such different preservation philosophies. Start with the mansion of Nathaniel Russell (51 Meeting Street, 843-724-8481), highly restored and one of the premier neoclassical buildings in America. It has a much-photographed free-flying spiral staircase and faux mahogany woodwork in the foyer. By contrast, the Aiken-Rhett House (48 Elizabeth Street, 843-723-1159) exists in a precarious state of semidilapidation. The slave quarters had a social hierarchy all their own -- the higher class lived above the kitchen, the lower above the horse stalls -- and are worth special attention. Admission is $8 each or $14 for both; open Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday 2 p.m. to 5.

12:30 p.m.
6) Where Slaves Were Sold
Don't let the smiling women in 18th-century costumes or the hokey animatronic pirates in the basement of the Old Exchange and Provost Dungeon (122 East Bay Street, 843-727-2165), below, fool you. This handsome building -- a short walk from the Russell House -- was one of the main transit points for slaves brought into the country during the 18th and 19th centuries. Guides will surely point out that George Washington was entertained in the ballroom on the second floor or that the Daughters of the American Revolution still meet in the parlor. Information about plantation life, though, is harder to pull out of them. It is a place where the Declaration of Independence was read aloud and human beings were sold and shipped.

1 p.m.
7) Southern, With a Twist
The strip north of Broad along East Bay Street has become Charleston's restaurant row. High Cotton Maverick Bar & Grill (199 East Bay Street, 843-724-3815), a popular weekend lunch and a daily dinner spot (with live jazz at night and at Sunday brunch) opened in 1999 and has fine and unusual Southern fare, including blue crab and bacon crepes ($9) and hangtown fry, a fried oyster omelet with smoked sausage ($10).

2 p.m.
8) Hit the Pavement
For a walking tour that takes in God and mammon, start at Meeting Street and Broad with a stop at St. Michael's Church, where the grandeur of the interior, with Tiffany stained glass, is matched by the grand shadows of those who have worshipped here -- including Washington and Robert E. Lee -- since its doors opened in 1761. Go up King Street, the main shopping avenue, to the Preservation Society of Charleston Book and Gift Shop (147 King Street, 843-722-4630) for books and sweets with a local flavor. The pricey wares in the dozens of antique stores are far beyond the means of casual shoppers. Better just to ogle the 18th- and 19th-century furniture and silver at Geo. C. Birlant & Company (191 King Street, 843-722-3842). And don't miss the Bob Ellis Shoe Store (332 King Street, 843-722-2515), which has almost any Blahnik or Choo that you could find in New York or Los Angeles. And, it's one of the few places where men can still find white bucks.

5 p.m.
9) A Taste of Colonial Life
A half-hour drive from Charleston is Middleton Place (4290 Ashley River Road; 843-556-0500), a former plantation and a National Historic Landmark. Sheep graze on the lawns, but the formal rose and camellia gardens are the draw. Henry Middleton, first president of the Continental Congress, had a home here. The family's guest house is now a museum with portraits of the Middletons by Benjamin West and Thomas Sully. The Middleton Place Restaurant offers dinner with dishes like pan-seared duck breast ($25) and roasted pork loin ($24).

Sunday

9:30 a.m.
10) Where Time Stopped
Back down the road toward Charleston is Drayton Hall (3380 Ashley River Road, 843-769-2600), a Palladian dream built in the 1730's by a rice planter. His family moved out during the Civil War but owned the property until the 1970's when the National Historic Trust took over. There are no furniture, electricity or running water -- the house was never modernized -- but guides are up-to-date on architectural history and know their egg-and-dart moldings from their guttae. Open daily year-round, 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tickets: $12 adults.

THE BASICS
Visiting Charleston
 Charleston International Airport is 12 miles from downtown Charleston. A taxi to downtown is about $22.
 Charleston is known for its bed-and-breakfasts. The South Carolina Bed & Breakfast Association (888-599-1234, www.southcarolinabedand
breakfast.com) has an extensive list.
 The Battery Carriage House Inn (20 South Battery Street, 843-727-3100) on the harbor has charm and a pedigree: the Charleston preservation movement began at a 1921 meeting in the main house. Rates for its 11 rooms and single suite vary seasonally from $179 to $279. 
 Out of the city is the Inn at Middleton Place (4290 Ashley River Road, 800-543-4774), which opened in 1987. Its 53 rooms, which combine warm wood and exposed cement, are set among woods and overlook the Ashley River. (The modern design won an award from the American Institute of Architects.) You can ride horses, kayak or take a guided nature hike. Rates vary seasonally and range from $189 to $275 -- or $400 to $500 for suites -- including free access to the gardens at Middleton Place, use of bicycles and breakfast.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Perry Baker for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Steven Shukow for The New York Times)Map of Charleston, South Carolina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (86%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); SLAVERY (73%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); WOMEN (73%); CITIES (72%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (69%); WINE (66%) Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (82%)

PERSON: Richard B Woodward

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (97%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%) Charleston (Sc) ; South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



480 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; Moscow Journal

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: The Great Russian Smoke-Out, Fit for Seventh Graders

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 22 

 BODY:
Well done! Nadezhda I. Ostafeyeva's seventh-grade theater and ballet class at School No. 981 has gone cold turkey.
 If they keep it up, the students have a shot at winning a scholastic competition that is one of Russia's belated and, critics say, half-hearted efforts to reduce a leading cause of death in a country whose citizens are dying relatively young.
 They are going to swear off smoking, and it is going to be a struggle.
 ''All my friends smoke,'' said Marina Yusova, prim and pretty and all of 12. Already tempted into trying cigarettes, she has now pledged not to smoke as part of a pilot project that began this spring at her school and 91 others in Moscow. 
 ''I realize it will not do me any good,'' she explained, embracing the program's mixture of health awareness and psychological evangelism. ''I want to achieve something in my life.''
 Marina's class may be a start, but to health officials and others, Russia has barely begun to address an epidemic of smoking that appears to be worsening, especially among young people.
 At a time when countries around the world have taken enormous steps to reduce smoking, even banning it in the smoky sanctity of the Irish pub, Russia has gotten around to extolling the smoke-free middle school.
 And the reason is clear. To the chagrin of those who detest smoking or, worse, who long to quit, Russia is a smoker's paradise. 
 According to official estimates, as many as half of all Russians smoke. But a soon-to-be-published survey by the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences found that among men between 25 and 34, the figure exceeds 70 percent -- the highest rate in the world, said David G. Zaridze, director of the academy's Institute of Carcinogenesis.
 Smoking rates were high during Soviet times as well, but according to Dr. Zaridze and other experts, a confluence of economic and social upheavals after but according to Dr. Zaridze and other experts, a confluence of economic and social upheavals after the Soviet Union's collapse has left Russia resistant to the downward trend seen in most countries. As a result, smoking-related diseases are among the reasons life expectancy for men in Russia has dropped to 58.6 years.
 Dr. Zaridze said that social hardships and the introduction of sophisticated marketing have all contributed to the high levels of smoking. Cigarettes also remain cheap, with local brands costing as little as 50 cents a pack. Taxes on cigarettes, measured in dollars per pack in the United States, run less than a few pennies a pack. 
 ''In this country, advertisements are something new, and people believe in them,'' Dr. Zaridze said. ''Advertisements affect young people, especially young women and people in lower socioeconomic classes. It is considered a luxury, and one people can afford.''
 Even worse, according to Nikolai F. Gerasimenko, deputy chairman of the Parliament's health committee and an antismoking crusader, is a social acceptance of smoking -- even among government officials -- that has all but disappeared in the United States and even in parts of Europe.
 In theory, a law passed in 2001 prohibits smoking in public places, but in practice it is routinely ignored and rarely enforced. And even then, the law's spirit is conflicted. It prohibits smoking at work places, but obliges employers to provide areas for smokers to smoke.
 The trouble here is not finding a place to smoke, but one where you cannot. Nonsmoking sections in restaurants are almost nonexistent. Rare is the stairwell in a Russian building that does not have a stub-filled jar or can on its landings. Aeroflot banned smoking on all its flights less than two years ago, but people still sneak smokes.
 It was Sergey V. Lavrov, the former Russian ambassador at the United Nations and now the country's new foreign minister, who led the rebellion last fall against a smoking ban imposed at the organization's headquarters in New York.
 Efforts to raise taxes and impose other greater restrictions on smoking have made little headway. ''Half of our deputies smoke,'' Dr. Gerasimenko, a surgeon who smoked for 30 years before quitting, said of his colleagues in Parliament.
 He and others have managed some modest steps, among them the pilot program at School No. 981. The gimmick is making quitting a competition among students (though in reality the classes are to be judged on the best antismoking campaign, using essays and posters, rather than a class's hard-to-verify abstinence). 
 The program came from Finland, but Evetta B. Trubachyova, a teacher at the school that oversees it, noted that it had to be modified for Russia to focus on even younger children -- those who are 10 to 12 years old, the age, according to surveys, when most Russians start smoking.
 Ms. Ostafeyeva's class underscored the point. When asked if they had ever tried cigarettes, seven of her 18 students raised their hands. One boy, Aleksandr Neuodachin, had already smoked for three or four months, before taking the pledge to quit. ''I started last year,'' he said shyly.
 Ms. Trubachyova said the program tried to instill a kind of antismoking peer pressure before the temptation, and then addiction, could take hold. The difficulty, she said, is the prevalence of smokers among older students and parents, its perceived glamour and the ease of buying cigarettes, even for children. 
 Zhanna A. Kaplina, the school's deputy director, welcomed the program but lamented that it was a merely three-month pilot project. A more concerted effort with more resources for teachers was needed to counteract the larger social pressures.
 ''If you plant a vegetable garden,'' he said. ''You have to tend it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A student enjoys a cigarette with friends before class outside School No. 29 in Perm, Russia. Some schools have begun a pilot program in which students compete to stop smoking. (Photo by Yola Monakhov for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SMOKING (90%); TRENDS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (84%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SMOKING BANS (76%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); BALLET (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); EPIDEMICS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Smoking and Tobacco; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Advertising and Marketing; Politics and Government; Social Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Smoking and Tobacco

PERSON: Steven Lee Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



481 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: Maine Takes A Cautious Path On Its Pensions

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
After being hammered in the financial markets for the last few years, many pension funds are turning to riskier investments, hoping that hedge funds, venture capital and the like will fuel returns and cover recent losses. But Maine has drawn a different lesson from the recent pension woes. Instead of shooting high, it is deliberately aiming for low, but guaranteed, investment income to pay for the retirement benefits of its workers. 
 Maine's pension fund recently put a portion of its money into very conservative bonds. The bonds pay a low interest rate, but their values will rise or fall in tandem with the value of the pensions the state must pay its retirees, no matter what the markets do. The bonds' durations match the scheduled payouts to retirees.
 It is a contrarian approach, but one that Maine thinks best serves its retirees and its taxpayers. ''It's a source of puzzlement to me that so few people have come to the same conclusion,'' said Rex W. Holsapple, chief investment officer of Maine's system of pension funds for public workers. He said he knew of no other United States pension fund doing what Maine was doing, a strategy known as matching. 
 Pension officials who dared suggest matching in recent years were scoffed at. Thomas Flanigan, formerly the chief investment officer at California's big pension fund for teachers, was dismissed in 1997 after pushing the idea at a time when stocks were red hot. 
 But academics have said the strategy, adopted early enough, could have prevented the recent collapse of the pension funds at US Airways, Bethlehem Steel and other companies. Had those companies matched their pension funds in the late 1990's, their pilots, steelworkers and other retirees would probably still be collecting full benefits. 
 Not only could it have saved those pension funds from failure, but it could have kept the recent pension crisis from erupting across corporate America, prompting Congress to ease requirements for funding pensions. In a properly matched pension fund, asset values cannot move down when benefit values go up.
 In Britain, the Boots Company, a retail drugstore chain, applied the strategy to its pension fund in 2000 with spectacular results -- Boots locked in a surplus and its pension fund rode out the bear market unscathed. But United States pension officials have dismissed Boots' achievement as a product of British accounting rules, with nothing to offer pension plans in this country. 
 Still, the concept of pension matching may be starting to gain currency. Earlier this year, the government agency that guarantees pensions announced it was matching its investment portfolio, to reduce the risk of a taxpayer bailout. 
 Now Maine appears to be the first pension fund in the United States to embrace matching since the long bear market began in 2000, raising questions about whether companies and governments are investing their employees' retirement money in the most prudent way.
 Maine made the conversion late last year. Before the change, the investment returns on Maine's assets varied from year to year, as with most pension funds, ranging from a gain of 25.7 percent last year, when the stock market rose, to a loss of 10.4 percent in 2002, when stocks fell. These swings will not be totally eliminated, because Maine is not using bonds to match its entire investment portfolio. So far, it has matched about a third of its assets. The remainder is still invested in stocks, on the assumption that over time, the stocks will grow faster than the conservative bonds. Maine is doing this because it has a pension deficit, and an allocation of stocks may close it over time.
 But even by matching a third of its investments, Maine has made an important break with the rest of the industry. ''It's a step in the right direction,'' said Jeremy Gold, an actuary who advocates matching for both corporate and public pension plans. ''Every pension plan would benefit from having more bonds. But there is considerable advantage in taking those bonds that you do have, and matching them.'' 
 To explain the new approach, Mr. Holsapple drew a comparison between the pension business and personal financial planning. Good personal planners do not urge their clients to shoot for big investment returns for the returns' own sake, he said. Rather, they find out what their clients are saving for, determine when they will need the money and then tailor investments to meet those goals.
 But the pension business works the other way around. For several reasons, pension professionals are geared to think in terms of investment returns and of peer-group rankings. The amount of money owed to retirees, and when it must be paid, do not typically enter into investment decisions. 
 At corporate pension funds, this single-minded focus on asset growth is fueled in part by accounting rules. The rules reward and encourage aggressive investing, by allowing companies to project their pension returns a year in advance, then use the projected returns to bolster the corporate bottom line. If companies matched their pension funds, using conservative bonds, they would miss out on this opportunity for a paper gain. 
 State and local pension funds use different accounting rules, but they may have other incentives to shoot for big investment returns. For one thing, the outside money managers who assist pension funds earn larger fees if they invest more aggressively. Also, many public pension officials are elected, and they know that a strong year-to-year investment performance is easy to grasp, and likely to impress pensioners, who vote. The virtues of a well-matched pension fund are nowhere near as immediately apparent.
 In fact, it should not make much difference to retired government workers whether their pension fund's investments soared or shriveled in a given year. Their benefits cannot be cut; governments are required to pay them the pensions they have earned, in good markets and bad. If a public plan's investments sour, and cash runs short, then the taxpayers have to chip in.
 That is happening in some places. The mayor of San Diego, Calif., has suggested a tax increase to fill that city's $1.1 billion pension shortfall. Colorado pension officials have asked the Legislature for an increase in the state's contributions, which are financed by taxpayers. The mayor of Syracuse has warned that the demands of New York State's pension funds could drive up city property taxes 45 percent.
 Other governments are engaging in financial gymnastics to avoid such tax increases. Texas officials have considered taking out life insurance policies on teachers, and using the payouts on those who die young to help finance retirement benefits for those who live well into old age. Many states and towns are selling bonds to generate cash for their pension funds. Still others are camouflaging their pension shortfalls by amending their funding laws.
 Mr. Holsapple's approach runs counter to such techniques. He acquired his point of view 20 years ago, when he worked in the corporate treasury department of Phillips Petroleum. First T. Boone Pickens, then Carl C. Icahn, mounted back-to-back takeover battles, and preserving the company's independence was extremely costly. Mr. Holsapple usually handled foreign-exchange transactions and short-term debt, but during the raids he was brought into the pension team, which was removing a $400 million surplus from the pension fund to pay down debt related to takeover defenses. 
 Doing this did not change the employees' benefits, Mr. Holsapple said. But his dealings with the pension fund introduced him to a startling fact: while all short-term debts are measured more or less the same way, there are many ways to measure pension debts to the work force, and seemingly small variations between them can make the benefits balloon, shrink or practically anything in between. 
 And make-or-break decisions could depend on which method was chosen. If Mr. Holsapple's team measured the benefits owed in the way the financial markets did, the benefits looked small relative to the value of the assets; that meant there was a $400 million surplus to be retrieved. But if they measured the benefits the way actuaries did, they were much larger, and there appeared to be little or no surplus at all. 
 Given the company's dire circumstances, the perils of measuring the pensions incorrectly were glaring. 
 ''I learned the ropes then, and it just made sense to me that you had to look at a pension plan that way,'' Mr. Holsapple said. ''That lesson has stayed with me.''
 That was the lesson he brought to Maine, when the state pension fund hired him as its first chief investment officer early in 2002. Soon, he initiated a broad review of investment policy.
 ''This was many hours' worth of meetings and discussions,'' recalled Kay R.H. Evans, the executive director of the system, which consists of a few large pension funds for Maine's teachers, judges and other state employees and more than 100 small pension funds for municipal employees. Much of the talk was about Mr. Holsapple's ideas on the need to focus on the size of the benefits to the work force, and the timing of the payouts. 
 The long discussions eventually brought Maine's trustees to the conclusion that they should not think about their investment portfolio in a vacuum. 
 ''It's there to fund the benefits,'' Mr. Holsapple said. 
 That may sound obvious to a nonspecialist, but in pension practice, it represents a watershed. It meant Maine would no longer think about its investments the way most of the industry does -- striving for high returns, and avoiding a low peer-group ranking. Instead, Maine would strive for returns commensurate to its obligations, and it would avoid drawing more tax dollars. 
 It also means, of course, that in some years Maine is likely to look bad next to other pension funds, because the rest of the industry still charts its health, and competes, in terms of investment returns. The trustees tried to picture what it would be like, in the inevitable quarters when their selection of long-term, inflation-indexed Treasury bonds landed them at the bottom of the peer-group rankings. They wanted to be sure they would not waver and sell out at the bottom of the market. After much soul-searching and discussion, they decided their resolve was firm. 
 The trustees then set about commissioning an asset-liability study, a standard tool that most big pension plans use every few years to reassess their investment strategies. That proved problematic at first, because virtually the entire industry does such studies in a way that applies one statistical method to the assets, and another to the obligations. 
 ''I don't know how to sugarcoat this,'' Mr. Holsapple said. ''Most asset-liability studies are done incorrectly.'' He thought the flaw was severe, and likely to bias the study in favor of riskier investments. 
 As it turned out, Maine's pension consultant, Richard M. Ennis, also had doubts about the way pensions were being measured. He brought in a new actuary who was willing to apply the same rigor to projecting the benefits as to projecting the assets. When the study was done, it confirmed the trustees' hunch that matching would be the most prudent course. 
 ''It showed that if they invested in bonds that had characteristics that were more like their liabilities, the risk of having an underfunded plan in the long run would be reduced,'' Mr. Ennis said. Not only was the risk of shortfalls lessened, he said, but in many instances Maine's cash contributions would be reduced too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (50%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Government Employees; Government Bonds

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (55%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (54%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Maine

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



482 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Share Prices Rise on Higher Forecasts for 2004 Earnings

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday after companies like eBay and Caterpillar raised their 2004 earnings forecasts, fueling optimism that profit will increase enough this year to warrant further gains in share prices.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.84 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,139.93. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 143.93 points, or 1.4 percent, to 10,461.20. Both benchmarks had their biggest gains in a month. The Nasdaq composite index added 37.28, or 1.9 percent, to 2,032.91. The Dow and the Nasdaq erased their losses for the year. 
 The benchmark indexes bounced between gains and losses in the first hour of trading after two reports from the Labor Department gave investors mixed signals about the direction of the economy and interest rates. One report showed that initial jobless claims declined less than expected, while the other showed a bigger-than-forecast increase in producer prices.
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said this week that deflation was no longer an issue for the United States. His comments prompted some investors to say interest rates may rise earlier than they had expected.
 ''The market is in a confusing state,'' said Peter V. Mancuso, a New York Stock Exchange trader with Performance Specialists Group. ''The earnings and estimates are better, the job market is better and the economy as a whole is much better. But the anticipation of a rise in interest rates is affecting investor sentiment.''
 Three stocks rose for every one that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.81 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 23 percent more than the three-month daily average.
 EBay led the S.&P. 500 higher, climbing $7.81 to $82.59. The company said late Wednesday that it expected net income in 2004 of as much as $1.06 a share on sales of up to $3.15 billion. Its previous forecast was for a profit of 99 cents a share and $3 billion in revenue. 
 Caterpillar added $3.02 to $84.10, pushing the Dow higher. Sales this year will rise 20 percent, while profit per share will surge 65 percent to 70 percent, the company said. Its previous forecast was for a 12 percent sales increase and a gain in earnings per share of 40 percent.
 Also lifting the Dow was the Boeing Company, the nation's second-largest defense contractor. The stock rose $1.42, to $42.27, after the company said first-quarter profit significantly exceeded analysts' estimates because of ''good performance across its core businesses.'' Boeing will release detailed quarterly results on Wednesday.
 Qualcomm, the world's second-largest maker of chips that power mobile telephones, jumped $2.04, to $67.88. Excluding its QSI wireless investment division, Qualcomm said second-quarter profit would have been 53 cents a share. On that basis, it was expected to earn 48 cents, Thomson Financial said.
 The Great Lakes Chemical Corporation surged $3.88, or 17 percent, to $26.75, for the biggest gain in the S.&P. 500. The company said first-quarter profit, excluding some costs, was 13 cents a share, 4 cents better than the estimate in a Thomson poll. 
 An S.&P. index of companies that produce raw materials jumped 3 percent for its biggest gain in more than four months.
 Not all companies rose after reporting results.
 Reebok International Ltd., the maker of athletic shoes, shed $3.86, or 9.2 percent, to $38.11 for the steepest decline in the S.&P. 500. The company said first-quarter profit increased less than 1 percent as costs rose and the bankruptcy of the American retailer Footstar hurt sales. The profit of 63 cents a share was less than the 67 cents that analysts expected in a Thomson survey.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Rise
(By Reuters)
 United States Treasury prices rose yesterday, drawing support from comments by Federal Reserve and Treasury officials that played down the threat of inflation, and from a second consecutive week of higher-than-expected jobless claims. The day's events cooled some of the concern in the market that the economy is heating up to the point that the Fed will need to raise interest rates this summer.
 Prices ticked higher after Treasury Secretary John W. Snow told a Bond Market Association meeting that inflation was not a cause for particular concern, echoing remarks from the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, on Wednesday. 
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note had risen 10/32 to 96 30/32. The yield fell to 4.39 percent, from 4.43 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Tax-Exempt Yields''Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly, since January.Revenue bonds: 5.20%General obligation bonds: 4.89%(Source by The Bond Buyer)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly, since January.30-year: 5.44%15-year: 4.75%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DEFLATION (77%); BONDS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: BOEING CO (80%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); QUALCOMM INC (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (80%); BAB (BRU) (80%); BA (NYSE) (80%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



483 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Russian Authorities Raid Oil Giant Again

BYLINE: By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 22 

 BODY:
The Russian authorities raided the headquarters of the oil giant Yukos on Thursday, further pressuring the stock price and the local equity market, and again stoking the debate on the company's long-range prospects.
 Investigators from the Russian interior ministry searched Yukos headquarters in central Moscow, part of a continuing inquiry into tax payments by several Yukos operating units and refineries. 
 But investors and analysts noted, however, that Thursday's raid of Yukos was just the latest by government authorities, part of a broader investigation into Yukos's founder and biggest shareholder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky. Since last summer, visits by the authorities to Yukos headquarters, to Mr. Khodorkovsky's investment company, Group Menatep, and to regional Yukos subsidiaries have become almost routine, as prosecutors try to build their case against the oil tycoon. 
 Both Mr. Khodorkovsky and his business associate, Platon L. Lebedev, are in jail awaiting trial. Mr. Khodorkovsky's arrest in October is widely seen as a Kremlin-supported effort to snuff his political ambitions. Mr. Khodorkovsky, who is Russia's richest man, has advocated more exports of crude oil to the West and has financed political parties that challenged Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin.
 Harvey Sawikin, co-manager of the Firebird Fund, a Russia-dedicated hedge fund in New York, said that the latest foray by the interior ministry police showed that there was no thaw in the government's approach to Mr. Khodorkovsky.
 ''It's been clear for weeks now that the battle wasn't over, in spite of Khodorkovsky's letter,'' a prison manifesto he dictated to his lawyers, which some viewed as a surrender to the Kremlin.
 Also on Thursday, a Moscow court postponed hearings on an appeal by Mr. Khodorkovsky's lawyers contesting the freezing of his Swiss bank accounts. The state has also frozen Mr. Khodorkovsky's $15 billion stake in Yukos, which he owns through Menatep, and some think the government may appropriate the stock.
 ''Most likely the state will wind up controlling all of, or the majority of, the Menatep stake in Yukos,'' Mr. Sawikin said, ''and then they'll use it to exercise leverage over the company, just the way they exercise control over UES and Aeroflot,'' Russia's national electricity monopoly and the flagship airline. The Russian government holds stakes in both companies.
 Meanwhile, the raid put further pressure a Russian stock market that had been falling for the last two weeks, a correction to what some people say is an overheated investment climate. The benchmark RTS index fell 2.3 percent Thursday to 680.09. Since April 11, when the RTS hit a record 781.55, the market has fallen roughly 15 percent. 
 Christopher Weafer, chief equity strategist at Alfa Bank, noted that while Yukos was a factor in the market's correction, the Russian market historically sells off after a bumper quarter, and was likely to recover.
 From July 2, when Mr. Lebedev was arrested, to July 17, the RTS fell 21.6 percent. At the time, the arrest was seen as a warning to Mr. Khodorkovsky that he should give up his support of opposition political parties ahead of parliamentary elections.
 In the ensuing three months, Russian equity prices increased 50.4 percent. Mr. Khodorkovsky was arrested on Oct. 25, a Saturday, and from Oct. 24 to Nov. 19, stock prices fell 25.3 percent. In the next four months, prices recovered 62.6 percent, Mr. Weafer said.
 ''This correction usually lasts until it has been extended 'enough' -- for traders, that seems to be around 20 percent -- or a senior government figure smoothes market nerves,'' Mr. Weafer said.
 This time, it may take longer for Russian stocks to recover. Emerging markets historically do well when interest rates are low and commodity prices are high, and the threat of higher interest rates in the United States has dented emerging markets overall, investors said.
 Peter Halloran, manager of Pharos, a Russian hedge fund, said Russian stocks had suffered with the dollar higher, less dovish comments from the United States Federal Reserve and falling commodity prices. 
 ''But Russia is still fine,'' he said, ''so long as we're not in a period where the global events overwhelm flows to the markets. It's one of the cheaper global emerging markets, with much better growth than most, and fiscally sound.''
 Separately, investor concerns that Yukos might be declared insolvent because the tax authorities have barred it from selling assets are not well founded, said Mr. Sawikin, who owns shares in the oil company. 
 Bruce Misamore, Yukos's chief financial officer, said that downgrades by credit rating agencies this week ''have in no way affected the company's current operations,'' and its creditors are not insisting on early repayment.
 Nevertheless, investors are starting to come to grips with the long-term outcome of the company, which may include government dominance. ''The state will get effective control'' of Yukos, Mr. Sawikin asserted.
 Yukos would not be run as efficiently under such conditions, he asserted. ''Look at Rosneft or Gazprom. These state-owned companies aren't as efficient or cost conscious as private companies,'' he said.
 On the other hand, he said, if the state has plans to take control of Yukos, they will probably not do it any ''mortal damage.'' He added: ''Talk recently about Yukos being picked apart or bankrupted is just hysteria.'' 
 In recent weeks, the Russian government has offset the jitters of the Yukos affair by dangling an entirely different carrot in front of foreign investors -- the prospect that Gazprom, Russia's massive natural gas monopoly, the largest in the world, would get rid of its two-tiered share system. Foreigners are permitted to hold only American depository receipts of Gazprom, while local investors can own cheaper Russian-listed shares.
 Still, political observers say a possible seizure of Yukos shares by the government would set a stark precedent -- though judging from the stock market's run-up for the last six months, investors may not care. 
 ''Certainly the Yukos affair has not had any significant macroeconomic impact,'' said Jessica Mathews, president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, at a conference in Moscow. She said it was unclear whether the affair would be seen as an instance ''that involves one man and one company,'' or one ''that speaks more broadly about the Russian government's adherence to the rule of law.''
 That precedent, she added, ''will have a deep effect on foreign investment and the entire Russian economy over time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Government agents searched the headquarters of Yukos in Moscow yesterday as part of an inquiry into tax payments by units of Yukos. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (61%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Taxation

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (90%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Yukos (Russian Co)

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) Erin E Arvedlund; Mikhail B Khodorkovsky

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



484 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: An Inside-the-Beltway Party

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Regarding your April 16 editorial ''Pork, Sweet and Sour,'' concerning the spending habits of Congress:
 Both liberal Democrats and so-called conservative Republicans have given up balancing the budget. Only Senator John McCain and a few others are seriously fighting the deficit. Everyone else believes that the best way to grease the wheels of re-election is to load up on billions of dollars' worth of pork-barrel projects. 
 Democrats and Republicans have morphed into one inside-the-Beltway party. Their philosophy is to continue to increase spending above the rate of inflation. Liberals won't say no to social welfare programs. Conservatives love any military spending. Both support corporate welfare subsidies. They are leaving the next generation an inheritance of government debt in the trillions of dollars. 
 No wonder a majority of Americans stays home on Election Day. We need the silent majority to vote this November.

LARRY PENNER
Great Neck, N.Y., April 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INFLATION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



485 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Mexico: Cement Business's Profit Rises

BYLINE: By Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

 BODY:
The cement company Cemex said that sales and profits rose in the first quarter as a result of economic growth in its major markets. 
Overall sales rose 13 percent, to $1.8 billion, and income nearly quadrupled to $311 million. The company said the rise in income was a result of a better operating performance, the peso's strength against the dollar and better results for its securities trading. Sales increased 10 percent in Mexico, Cemex's largest market, and 14 percent in the United States, its No.2 market. Elisabeth Malkin (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MARKET SIZE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (86%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: CEMEX SAB DE CV (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Cemex (Mexican Co) 

TICKER: CX (NYSE) (92%); CEMEX (BMV) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212321 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL MINING (92%); SIC1442 CONSTRUCTION SAND & GRAVEL (92%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Malkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



486 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Work Restarts On Projects Hurt by Strife, Officials Say

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 22 

 BODY:
Work on rebuilding Iraq's infrastructure is recovering from a near halt at the height of the violence earlier this month, project officials said on Thursday, though 10 percent of the foreign workers remain out of Iraq for safety and little is being done at 10 percent of the projects. 
 The officials said it was too early to assess whether the violence -- ambushes of supply convoys, kidnappings and killings of foreign workers, threats against Iraqis working on the projects -- would delay completion of the $1 billion in projects under way to rebuild electricity plants, bridges, sanitation facilities and the like. 
 But American officials are bracing for more violence in the weeks leading up to the transfer of some sovereignty to Iraqis on June 30, a problem that one senior American reconstruction official acknowledged might further hinder the work. 
 ''The logic would be if the security situation stays like it is or gets worse, it's going to have an impact,'' Tom Wheelock, director of infrastructure programs for the United States Agency for International Development, which oversees the rebuilding contracts, told reporters in Baghdad on Thursday. So far, Mr. Wheelock said, ''despite the security problems, work has continued.''
 With companies citing security concerns, few specifics have been disclosed about how the violence has affected the work of rebuilding Iraq. 
 But amid the pullout of hundreds of foreign workers -- among them 600 Russians last week -- two major contractors, General Electric and Siemens, have suspended most of their operations here because of security concerns and some of their foreign workers have left the country. Mr. Wheelock said that virtually all work shut down during the second week of April as the violence intensified and Iraqi subcontractors and employees failed to show up. 
 Now, he said, the subcontractors have returned, as have most employees, and substantial work is being done, though not necessarily at full speed, at about 45 of some 50 projects overseen by A.I.D. Work speed at the others -- mostly in Baghdad and south to the Shiite city of Nasiriya -- is ''not worth writing home about,'' he said. Work in the north and the far south has not been affected, he said. 
 Another aid agency official said 10 percent of foreigners were currently out of Iraq. Some were sent out, the official said, but most had been on break outside the country and were told not to return because of safety problems. Some are returning, the official said, though few are traveling outside protected areas to work sites. 
 A spokesperson for Bechtel, which oversees the $1 billion in infrastructure projects under way through A.I.D. and $1.8 billion in recently awarded contracts, said safety issues had affected the work, but avoided giving details so as not to give any information to potential attackers. 
 ''We don't want to be on their radar screen -- it's as simple as that,'' the spokesperson said in a briefing to reporters, insisting even that they not use the term ''spokesman'' or ''spokeswoman.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (71%); CONTRACT AWARDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Terrorism

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); SIEMENS AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); SIN (SWX) (54%); SIE (LSE) (54%); SIE (FRA) (54%); SIE (BIT) (54%); SI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: Ian Fisher

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



487 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: A Muscular Idealism

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Sargent Shriver is 88 years old, which is all the proof we need that time is flying. That he is not better known is a scandal.
 Mention his name now, especially to young people, and you will most likely get a blank stare. His daughter, the TV personality Maria Shriver, who is the wife of Arnold Schwarzenegger and thus the first lady of California, is much better known. 
 Yet the author of a new biography of Mr. Shriver plausibly suggests that this idealistic and indefatigable man -- who created and led the Peace Corps, founded Head Start, created the Job Corps and Legal Services for the poor, gave us Volunteers in Service to America, and was president and chairman of the Special Olympics -- may have directly affected more people in a positive way than any American since Franklin Roosevelt.
 Mr. Shriver came out of an era when it was considered shameful for able-bodied men to run and hide when the nation was at war. He was a heroic naval officer who served in the Pacific in World War II. The book, ''Sarge: The Life and Times of Sargent Shriver'' by Scott Stossel, gives us a glimpse of the reality of war in its description of a harrowing sea battle that erupted off Guadalcanal on the night of Nov. 14, 1942:
 ''The foremast was hit. Electrical fires erupted continuously, all around Shriver. Whole gun crews were killed by flying shells. The ship began to slow down, and more Japanese rounds ripped across the deck, killing an officer in the radar plotting room. Three rounds exploded in another battle station, killing a half dozen more men. Steam lines were severed, and the hot, hissing steam scalded numerous sailors. Ladders between decks got knocked out, making putting out fires and attending to the growing scores of wounded much more difficult. Shriver himself was wounded when metal shrapnel from an explosion lodged itself in his shoulder, a wound for which he was later to be awarded a Purple Heart.''
 Mr. Shriver, who has been married to John F. Kennedy's sister Eunice for more than 50 years, led the talent hunt for the new breed of public servants that staffed the Kennedy administration. You had to search hard, he felt, because those most suited for public office very often don't seek it.
 The idea for the Peace Corps came up almost offhandedly during an address by Kennedy in the 1960 campaign. After the election the president asked Mr. Shriver to study the feasibility of such a program. Mr. Shriver has joked that he was the logical choice to create and lead the Peace Corps because everyone was sure it would be a disaster, and ''it would be easier'' for the president to fire his brother-in-law than anybody else.
 A young Bill Moyers, who joined Mr. Shriver at the Peace Corps and eventually became its deputy director, said a crucial component of the corps was Mr. Shriver's deep commitment to the idea of America ''as a social enterprise . . . of caring and cooperative people.''
 The Peace Corps turned out to be the signature success of Kennedy's New Frontier.
 In 1964, as head of the Office of Economic Opportunity in the Johnson administration, Mr. Shriver came across studies that showed connections between poor nutrition, lower I.Q. scores and arrested social and emotional development. He wondered whether early childhood intervention ''could have a beneficial effect on the children of poor people.'' Head Start followed in incredibly short order.
 There seemed to be no end to the man's restlessness, energy, curiosity, creativity and optimism. Those qualities never waned through wars, assassinations, political setbacks or personal disappointments.
 I talked to Mr. Shriver on the phone yesterday. ''I think I'm one of the luckiest guys in history,'' he said. ''From the time I was, say, 17 to the time I'm 88, I have been exposed to a galaxy of wonderful people, to challenging situations, to worldwide problems, sometimes to weaknesses and sometimes to strengths. And we made an effort during that time to find out what was true, and what was needed by way of improvement.''
 Mr. Shriver's commitment to public service has always seemed both joyous and total. In 1994, he told graduating students at Yale, his alma mater, to break all their mirrors. ''Yes, indeed,'' he said, ''shatter the glass. In our society that is so self-absorbed, begin to look less at yourself and more at each other. Learn more about the face of your neighbor, and less about your own.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITERATURE (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); LEGAL AID (75%); POLITICS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); NAVIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (56%); OLYMPICS (54%) United States Politics and Government; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (57%); JOB CORPS (57%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (56%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (56%) Bob Herbert; Scott Stossel; Sargent Shriver

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



488 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: What Went Wrong?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
On April 11 of last year, just after U.S. forces took Baghdad, I warned that the Bush administration had a ''pattern of conquest followed by malign neglect,'' and that the same was likely to happen in Iraq. I'm sorry to say those worries proved justified.
 It's now widely accepted that the administration ''failed dismally to prepare for the security and nation-building missions in Iraq,'' to quote Anthony Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies -- not heretofore known as a Bush basher. Just as experts on peacekeeping predicted before the war, the invading force was grossly inadequate to maintain postwar security. And this problem was compounded by a chain of blunders: doing nothing to stop the postwar looting, disbanding the Iraqi Army, canceling local elections, appointing an interim council dominated by exiles with no political base and excluding important domestic groups. 
 The lesson of the last few weeks is that the occupation has never recovered from those early errors. The insurgency, which began during those early months of chaos, has spread. Iraqi security forces have walked off their jobs, or turned against us. Attacks on convoys have multiplied, major roads have been closed, and reconstruction has slowed where it hasn't stopped. Deteriorating security prevents progress, lack of progress feeds popular disillusionment, and disillusionment feeds the insurgency.
 Why was it predictable that Iraq would go wrong? The squandered victory in Afghanistan was an obvious precedent. But the character flaws in the Bush administration that led to the present crisis were fully visible in the months that followed 9/11.
 It quickly became apparent that President Bush, while willing to spend vast sums on the military, wasn't willing to spend enough on security. And 9/11 didn't shake the administration's fanatical commitment to privatization and outsourcing, in which free-market ideology is inextricably mixed with eagerness to protect and reward corporate friends.
 Sure enough, the administration was unprepared for predictable security problems in Iraq, but moved quickly -- in violation of international law -- to impose its economic vision. Last month Jay Garner, the first U.S. administrator of Iraq, told the BBC that he was sacked in part because he wanted to hold quick elections. His superiors wanted to privatize Iraqi industries first -- as part of a plan that, according to Mr. Garner, was drawn up in late 2001.
 Meanwhile, the administration handed out contracts without competitive bidding or even minimal oversight. It also systematically blocked proposals to have Congressional auditors oversee spending, or to impose severe penalties for fraud.
 Cronyism and corruption are major factors in Iraq's downward spiral. This week the public radio program ''Marketplace'' is running a series titled ''The Spoils of War,'' which documents a level of corruption in Iraq worse than even harsh critics had suspected. The waste of money, though it may run into the billions, is arguably the least of it -- though military expenses are now $4.7 billion a month. The administration, true to form, is trying to hide the need for more money until after the election; Mr. Cordesman predicts that Iraq will need ''in excess of $50-70 billion a year for probably two fiscal years.''
 More important, the ''Marketplace'' report confirms what is being widely reported: that the common view in Iraq is that members of the U.S.-appointed Governing Council are using their positions to enrich themselves, and that U.S. companies are doing the same. President Bush's idealistic language may be persuasive to Americans, but many Iraqis see U.S. forces as there to back a corrupt regime, not democracy.
 Now what? There's a growing sense of foreboding, even panic, about Iraq among national security experts. ''This is an extremely uncertain struggle,'' says Mr. Cordesman, who, to his credit, also says the unsayable: we may not be able to ''stay the course.'' But yesterday Condoleezza Rice gave Republican lawmakers what Senator Rick Santorum called ''a very upbeat report.'' 
 That's very bad news. The mess in Iraq was created by officials who believed what they wanted to believe, and ignored awkward facts. It seems they have learned nothing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); ARMIES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); POLITICS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); PUBLIC RADIO (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (63%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Looting; Politics and Government; Terrorism; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Elections

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



489 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Follow The Leader

BYLINE: By Joshua Micah Marshall. 
Joshua Micah Marshall is a contributing writer at The Washington Monthly and a columnist for The Hill, a newspaper about Congress.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In this year's presidential campaign, no wisdom is more conventional than the assumption that George W. Bush's re-election effort will succeed or fail along with the American mission in Iraq. If Iraq collapses, the reasoning goes, the Bush presidency will soon follow. And yet here was the president gaining ground, in several polls released this week, in the face of what were certainly the worst three weeks in Iraq since the United States deposed Saddam Hussein a year ago.
 The actual shift in the numbers was small -- only a matter of a few percentage points, just about the margin of error in the polls. And it might be explained by $50 million worth of President Bush's TV ads or Mr. Kerry's relative absence from the nightly news. But the new numbers do suggest a paradoxical question: could escalating national security crises be bolstering the president's support -- even if they are crises of his own making? 
 Historical precedents are inconclusive. In terms of public opinion, bad news from overseas isn't the same as bad tidings about the economy. Crises abroad almost always rally the country around the commander in chief, providing at least a short-term bump in the polls. What's more, an environment in which national security is of heightened concern to voters has historically tended to help Republicans.
 But the war in Iraq is unique. Rarely if ever have a foreign policy and a president's fate been so clearly linked. Former commanders in chief may have faced reverses in prosecuting the cold war -- John F. Kennedy and the Bay of Pigs, for example, or Ronald Reagan at Reykjavik. And Vietnam, of course, ended the presidency of Lyndon Johnson.
 But these presidents did not choose or create these conflicts. In contrast, America wouldn't be in Iraq today had President Bush not chosen to put us there.
 If Americans decide that Iraq is a disaster, why do they not see him as the cause of the problem? Why has support for the president bounced back (up four points in one poll) even as approval of his handling of Iraq has fallen (down three points in the same poll)?
 The pattern may not hold, and voters tend to react differently to the outbreak of a crisis than to sustained bad news. Still, there is a theory that might explain these apparently contradictory poll results. In wars abroad, Americans don't want their presidents to fail.
 In part that's because a failure for the president is a failure for the nation. Indeed, the logic may apply with more force in cases like Iraq, in which the president has cast the nation on what is essentially a war of choice. To admit that the president blew it is to say the same of the public that followed him into the conflict. And like its leaders, the public not only doesn't like admitting it was wrong, but it will go to great lengths to avoid doing so.
 The danger for President Bush is clear: the public's patience is not unlimited, and eventual failure in Iraq will almost certainly sink his candidacy. (Sometimes the conventional wisdom is actually right.)
 For John Kerry, the risks are less obvious but no less real: running a campaign that focuses the voters' gaze solely on the president's manifest failures will probably run into resistance, especially with the voters he most needs to win over, those from the ambivalent middle. Mr. Kerry is far more likely to win if he has a plan to show how he -- and thus the American people -- can succeed rather than simply showing how President Bush -- and thus they -- have failed.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Paul Sahre) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); COLD WAR (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); TERRORISM (59%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) Joshua Micah Marshall; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



490 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Mayor's Rating Up; Poll Sees Deep Split On School Policies

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and MARJORIE CONNELLY

 BODY:
More New Yorkers approve of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's handling of his job than did last June, the latest New York Times Poll has found, and since June almost twice as many believe the city's economy is better. But the public is deeply divided over how he is handling the school system, an issue that Mr. Bloomberg has told voters should determine whether he is re-elected next year.
 Of those polled, 38 percent say they approve of the way Mr. Bloomberg is handling his job, compared with 24 percent last June, a historic low for this poll. More New Yorkers disapprove of the way the mayor is handling the schools than approve, 46 percent to 38 percent, and the number approving has slipped from a year ago. 
 Still, the poll shows that some of Mr. Bloomberg's policies are very popular. For example, his plan to make third graders who fail reading or math tests repeat that grade -- a central element of his education plan -- was supported by 63 percent of those polled. A surprisingly similar percentage said they approved of the mayor's antismoking law, and that number has increased over the last year. 
 The respondents to the poll showed strong support for his other initiatives. When asked if they liked the idea of New York playing host to the Summer Olympics in 2012, a goal Mr. Bloomberg has actively pursued, 71 percent said yes. Almost half said they would like to see a new sports stadium built on the West Side of Manhattan (although far fewer, 21 percent, liked the idea of taxpayers picking up some of the tab for that stadium) . 
 That said, 64 percent also said that they would like to see another person sitting at the mayor's desk in City Hall after the 2005 election.
 The poll was conducted by telephone April 16-21 with 1,132 adults throughout the city, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
 The juxtaposition of how people respond to Mr. Bloomberg's policies and how they feel about him underscores the paradox of his mayoralty: while the majority of those polled offered hearty approval of some of the mayor's signature policies or conditions in the city, something about him arouses antipathy. When asked if they viewed Mr. Bloomberg favorably or unfavorably, only 28 percent replied ''favorably,'' but significantly more people said he was doing a good job.
 ''Obviously he knows what he's doing,'' Bernice Colon, 66, who lives in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx, said in a followup interview. Yet she still finds herself disliking the mayor. ''He doesn't give me a message. I know he's going to say, 'I really like you,' but I don't think he really does.''
 Those feelings were echoed by other respondents.
 ''I don't believe Mayor Bloomberg is in touch with what the common people feel or need in this city,'' said Bruce Sykes, 69, echoing a common refrain of the last few years. But Mr. Sykes, who lives in Washington Heights, in Manhattan, added: ''The problem is, you don't know what these people are going to be like until they get in. There's no on-the-job training to be mayor. You walk in, and what you bring to the job, fundamentally, is your own personality and your own philosophy.'' 
 Yet for all those New Yorkers who think Mr. Bloomberg should go, few have strong feelings about any of his potential political opponents. Almost 70 percent of the respondents said they had not heard enough about six rivals the mayor may face in 2005 to have an opinion; only former borough president Fernando Ferrer, a former mayoral candidate, was well known, and 37 percent said they knew enough to form an opinion.
 Although the poll found that most respondents want a new mayor, it is also notable that in a Times poll in 1997, 48 percent of those polled said the same thing about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, and that eight months later he was re-elected in a landslide. 
 Although many of those polled said that they felt their taxes had gone up and that they were having a hard time financially, a full 45 percent said they thought New York City's economy was ''good.'' Only 24 percent thought so last June. 
 While it is not possible to come to clear conclusions about why Mr. Bloomberg's poll numbers have bounced upward, there is a strong suggestion that perceived improvements in the economy have helped him. For example, he has 45 percent approval among people who say the economy is good, but only 34 percent from those who think it is bad.
 ''The city has started to recover from 9/11 and businesses have started to come back,'' said Knut Johannessen, 75, a retired factory worker, who said he was still struggling to make it through each month.
 If voters take Mr. Bloomberg up on his invitation to judge him by the state of the schools, he may be in trouble. When asked if they were generally satisfied with the quality of the city's schools, 72 percent of those polled said they were not, exactly the same percentage of those who expressed dissatisfaction in 1993.
 Among those polled, 61 percent think parents have too little say in how the public schools are run, and 37 percent say the mayor has too much. While 16 percent say his handling of education has been the best thing he has done since he took office, 11 percent say it is the worst.
 Those results call into question how much New Yorkers truly understand what is happening in public education, and perhaps how much it would actually affect their vote, even though far more of those polled professed to want the mayor to focus on education than, say, crime.
 But clearly many New Yorkers feel uneasy about the power the mayor has gained over the schools through mayoral control. ''I don't like what he's doing with the schools,'' said Gregory Butler, a carpenter in Harlem. ''What with them dismantling the community school boards, and then having his little junta there running the schools -- they are unelected and are accountable only to him.'' 
 Strikingly, parents with children in the public schools had a more negative view of how Mr. Bloomberg is handing education generally: 54 percent of the parents polled disapproved. Specific aspects of the schools and its governance are disliked by larger numbers of the parents than by the general population, including the chancellor, Joel I. Klein, and the amount of power that parents hold in decision-making and the attention they believe the mayor devotes to the schools. 
 While Mr. Bloomberg scores lower among black and Hispanic New Yorkers on almost every issue than he does among whites, 38 percent of whites now disapprove of the way he is handling education, up from 31 percent two years ago. By comparison, 56 percent of blacks expressed disapproval, up from only 54 percent in 2002. 
 It appears that New Yorkers, who are still afraid of another terrorist attack, are nevertheless beginning to feel better about the condition of the city. Of those polled, 20 percent feel the city is getting better; last June, only 12 percent felt that way. And when asked if they would prefer to remain living in New York City, most said yes. In a sense, those polled appear to regard the mayor the way they do their city: they have myriad gripes, but few desired alternatives. 
 Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, expressed pleasure with the poll. ''New Yorkers are increasingly recognizing that in just two years, Mayor Bloomberg has compiled an outstanding record,'' he said. ''Guiding the city through the fiscal crisis, bringing down crime to levels no one thought possible, reforming a school system that has failed generations of schoolchildren and improving our quality of life so our economy can get back on track, bringing jobs back to New York City.''

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted April 16 through 21 in all parts of New York City with 1,132 adults. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of city exchanges. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each area of the city was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to borough, race, sex, age, education, and Hispanic descent.
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult New Yorkers.
 For smaller subgroups, the potential sampling error is larger.
 In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.
 Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/nyregion.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a New York Times poll of New York City residents misstated the increase since last June in the number of people saying they believe that the city's economy is better than it was five years ago. More than twice as many gave that response in the latest poll, not ''almost'' twice as many.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The New York Times Poll: Perceptions of the City''The Mayor and the EconomyDo you approve or disapprove of the way Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is handling his job?Graph tracks percentage of people who approve or disapprove of the way Mayor Bloomberg does his job since June 2002.How would you rate the condition of the New York City economy?Graph tracks percentage of people who rated the New York City economy very good or fairly good since June 2002.Is the city economy better, worse or about the same as it was five years ago?Graph tracks percentage of people who believe New York City's economy is better, worse, or about the same since June 2002.The Mayor and EducationDo you approve or disapprove of the way Mayor Bloomberg is handling education?No opinion: 16%Approve: 38%Disapprove: 46%Do you think Mayor Bloomberg is spending too much, too little, or the right amount of attention on public school education?No opinion: 11%Too much: 4%Too little: 53%Right Amount: 32%Do you favor or oppose the new plan to make students repeat the third grade if they do not pass a special reading or math test?No opinion: 6%Oppose: 31%Favor: 63%Smoking and SportsDo you approve or disapprove of the new antismoking law, which bans smoking in almost all bars and restaurants in New York City?No opinion: 3%Disapprove: 31%Approve: 66%Do you favor or oppose New York City hosting the 2012 Summer Olympics?No opinion: 10%Oppose: 20%Favor: 71%Do you think the city and state should or should not build a new sports stadium on the West Side of Manhattan for the Jets and the 2012 Summer Olympics?No opinion: 12%Should Not: 43%Should: 45%Based on five citywide telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times, the latest on April 16-21 with 1,132 respondents. The June 2002 poll was conducted with CBS News. Percentages may not add to 100 because of rounding. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SMOKING (71%); TRENDS (71%); SMOKING BANS (66%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (65%) Public Opinion; Elections; Mayors; Economic Conditions and Trends; Education and Schools; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2012); Summer Games (Olympics); Smoking and Tobacco

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



491 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Science Group Says U.S. Budget Plan Would Harm Research

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22 

 BODY:
The nation's largest general science group said Thursday that the Bush administration's proposed budget for the next five years could cut research financing at 21 of the 24 federal agencies that engage in it.
 Among fields that would most likely be hurt, the organization said, are physics, medicine, oceanography, astronomy, geology, chemistry, psychology, biology, climatology, anthropology, ecology, mathematics, archaeology, meteorology, sociology and energy research.
 ''Particularly during a presidential election year, it's essential that policy makers and taxpayers understand the impacts of any federal budget changes, especially any proposals that may have implications for the pace of scientific discoveries in coming years,'' said Al Teich, director of science and policy programs for the group, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, based in Washington.
 In unveiling his five-year budget in February, President Bush left out many specifics. Ken Koizumi, director of the association's budget program, mined government documents to try to fill in the blanks regarding federal dollars for research. Mr. Koizumi's figures, in an analysis made public Thursday at the group's annual forum on science budget and policy trends, are adjusted for assumed inflation. 
 In his analysis, Mr. Koizumi writes that Mr. Bush's pledge to halve the nation's budget deficit in the next five years, from its estimated level of $521 billion this year, would require ''dramatic'' cuts in various research budgets. The only research categories likely to escape the cuts, he said, are the military, domestic security and space exploration.
 Mr. Koizumi said he projected that the lower spending would continue from 2005 to 2009 and ''leave key programs with budgets well below recent historical levels.''
 The president's science adviser, Dr. John H. Marburger III, who attended the forum, said in an interview that the analysis was unduly pessimistic. 
 Research budgets during the Bush administration have soared to record highs, Dr. Marburger pointed out. And of the budget proposals covering the next five years, he said, only those for 2005 are firm in seeking to halt that growth, in select areas outside national defense. The projections for future years are speculative, he said, and some of the group's forecasts may end up being wrong.
 ''Maybe there are things we can focus on better,'' Dr. Marburger said of fields tentatively scheduled for budget cuts, ''to make them a higher priority.''
 In a talk explaining his analysis, Mr. Koizumi conceded that his projection was ''not a crystal ball.''
 ''It's not a future,'' he said. ''It's only one idea of the future. But I show these because it's an important consequence of the deficit. The president's budget proposed tough choices.''
 Federal support for research and development stands at $126.5 billion this year, and the administration has proposed increasing it over five years to $141.6 billion. But Mr. Koizumi found that large projected increases for research at the Department of Homeland Security and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration masked steep declines at all other nondefense agencies.
 For instance, he said, federal budgets would decline 15.9 percent for earth science over the next five years, 16.2 percent for aeronautics, 11.8 percent for biological and physics research, 21 percent for energy-supply research, and 11.3 percent for agriculture research. Research budgets would drop 15 percent at the Environmental Projection Agency, 10.5 percent at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and 4.7 percent at the National Science Foundation, a federal agency that supports a diversity of fundamental investigations.
 Mr. Koizumi's analysis found that research financing even for the National Institutes of Health, whose budget has doubled in recent years, would drop 5.8 percent over the next five.
 If the president has his way, Mr. Koizumi concluded, the general outlook for federal support of scientific research in that period is ''flat or declining investments.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); TRENDS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); OCEANOGRAPHY (73%); METEOROLOGY (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%) Science and Technology; Research; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Science and Technology

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (83%) American Assn for the Advancement of Science

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) William J Broad; George W (Pres) Bush; John H III (Dr) Marburger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2004



492 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; About New York

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: War Veteran's Homecoming Is Spent in Homeless Shelters

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

 BODY:
THIS is how Nicole Goodwin travels these days: with her 1-year-old daughter pressed to her chest in a Snugli, a heavy backpack strapped across her shoulders, and a baby stroller crammed with as many bags of clothes and diapers as it can hold. When you are a homeless young mother, these are the things you carry.
 And tucked away somewhere are the documents attesting to Ms. Goodwin's recent honorable discharge from the United States Army, as well as Baghdad memories that are still fresh. 
 Two months ago, she returned to Bronx circumstances that were no less difficult than when she had left them three years earlier; no yellow ribbons greeted her. Now, every day, she soldiers on to find a residence where the rent is not covered by in-kind payments of late-night bus rides to shelters and early-morning rousting. All the while, she keeps in mind the acronym she learned in the Army: Leadership. L is for loyalty; D for duty; R for respect; S for selfless service; H for honor; P for personal courage. ''And I is my favorite,'' she says. ''It's integrity.'' 
 On Thursday morning, Ms. Goodwin wheeled her heavy-duty stroller into the Lower Manhattan office of the Coalition for the Homeless, a nonprofit organization that is trying to help her. For the last couple of nights it has put her and her nuzzling daughter, Shylah, up in a hotel.
 ''She needed a breather,'' said Mary Brosnahan Sullivan, its executive director.
 Ms. Goodwin, 23, has perfect posture and a steady gaze. She graduated early from Morris High School in the Bronx, the alma mater of another soldier, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell (''They made sure we knew that,'' she says), then spent a couple of years attending college classes sporadically and quarreling with her mother. 
 One day in January 2001, she entered an Army recruiting station and signed up, giving little thought to the chance of war. ''I needed to leave,'' she said. Life moved pretty quickly after that: basic training at Fort Jackson, S.C.; classes in supply support at Fort Lee, Va.; and then a flight to Germany, where she was attached to Company B of the 501st Forward Support Battalion at a post in Friedberg.
 A relationship with another soldier ended after she became pregnant, and in early 2003 she flew to the California home of some friends from the military -- the Bronx was not an option, she says -- to give birth in March of that year. A few weeks later, she did the hardest thing she has ever had to do: she left Shylah with her California friends and returned to Germany to complete her service.
 Four months after giving birth, Ms. Goodwin was sent to Iraq. She served food rations at Baghdad International Airport for several weeks, then spent a few more weeks at the sports arena known as the Olympic Stadium, helping to supply soldiers with things like toilet paper and small armaments. 
 These are among her memories: ''the mortar rounds, the gunfights, the car bombings.'' 
 After nearly four months in Iraq, Ms. Goodwin returned to Germany to finish the tail end of her three-year hitch. ''I wanted to get back to my daughter,'' she said, ''but I didn't want to leave Iraq.''
 Her Army career now over, Ms. Goodwin returned to California to pick up Shylah, who looked ''amazingly different,'' and headed to the Bronx, where her mother, two sisters and a 4-year-old nephew were now living in the two-bedroom apartment in the Patterson housing project. ''We were good for a week,'' she said of her relationship with her mother. ''But after that. ...''
 Ms. Goodwin and her daughter moved in with a good friend's mother, and she began planning her next step in life, one that would provide more than the $250 a week she was receiving in unemployment benefits. But a heated argument abruptly ended the living arrangement, and late on April 6 -- a little more than two months after being honorably discharged as a private, second class -- a war veteran and her small child hit the darkened streets.
 She pushed her stroller a few blocks to the Emergency Assistance Unit, the city's flawed point of entry for homeless families. She explained her situation to a staff member who, she says, yelled at her for not having the proper paperwork handy. ''I killed her with kindness,'' she said. ''I've been yelled at before by the best.''
 ''I got that attitude from Iraq,'' Ms. Goodwin added. ''If this isn't life and death, it's not that serious.''
 She filled out an application for transitional housing, and after a while a bus arrived to take the Goodwins and other families to a one-night shelter on Powers Avenue. She thinks it was about 4 a.m.; she knows that Shylah's eyes were wide open.
 For the next several days, the Goodwins rode the city bus of homelessness -- two nights more at the Powers Avenue shelter, and then several nights at the Skyway Hotel in southeastern Queens -- while the city determined whether she was eligible for housing. Her life became a blur of riding late-night buses, maneuvering the subway system, filling out forms and comforting Shylah.
 On April 17, the Department of Homeless Services denied housing to the Iraqi war veteran on the grounds that she could live with her mother. Beyond the overcrowding that such a return would create (four women and two small children in a two-bedroom apartment), she says that the decision ignored the untenable situation between mother and daughter.
 Moving back was not an option, she said. Not an option.
 MS. GOODWIN immediately reapplied, thus entering a limbo world known as fast track, in which families who have already been denied housing return within 48 hours to the Emergency Assistance Unit to apply again, and to wait, again, for that late-night bus to somewhere.
 City officials say that under the fast-track process, the applications of the recently rejected are expedited to see whether any new information might make them eligible. But according to Ms. Goodwin, fast track seems designed to generate so much frustration that the applicant gives up and goes away.
 Two days into her fast-track odyssey, Ms. Goodwin got a four-hour pass from the Emergency Assistance Unit -- keeping her application active -- and made her way, with child, to the Bronx Veterans Affairs Medical Center. The Department of Veterans Affairs does not have housing for homeless veterans, but it does have a comprehensive plan for homelessness that includes assistance with employment and counseling. 
 Jim Connell, a spokesman for the Bronx center, said staff members tried to find housing for the Goodwins. ''They started calling alternative shelters, but a lot of them don't take women,'' he said. ''One was full, another wouldn't take a child.'' He added: ''They were not particularly successful.''
 Before the staff at the medical center could help Ms. Goodwin further, Mr. Connell said, she had to leave ''because her pass was running out.'' But someone in Veterans Affairs managed to call her cellphone and refer her to the Coalition for the Homeless for legal help.
 By last evening, officials in Veterans Affairs were vowing to make sure that Nicole Goodwin receives the assistance she needs, and Jim Anderson, a spokesman for Homeless Services, was delivering the official city explanation.
 ''It is a disgrace that soldiers experience instability as they return home and, sadly, hundreds of homeless vets today call municipal shelters their home,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''That having been said, the facts support that this particular family has an alternative to shelter.''
 A Iraqi war veteran wearing a backpack, pushing a stroller and carrying a baby stayed in another strange hotel room last night, mostly because the city of her birth does not know what to do with her. Welcome home. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MILITARY RECRUITING (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (86%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



493 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Bank Money Accounts

 BODY:
Annual percentage yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, April 21, 2004. Yields are based on the method of compounding the interest rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only. Rates subject to change without notice.

New York Area

COMMERCIAL BANKS

Banco Popular
Money Mkt.: 0.80
3-mo. C.D.: 0.95
6-mo. C.D.: 2.00

Bank of N.Y.
Money Mkt.: 0.50
3-mo. C.D.: 0.65
6-mo. C.D.: 0.65

Chase Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.40
3-mo. C.D.: 0.90
6-mo. C.D.: 0.90

Citibank
Money Mkt.: 0.50
3-mo. C.D.: 0.80
6-mo. C.D.: 0.85

Fleet Bank (NY)
Money Mkt.: 0.40
3-mo. C.D.: 0.55
6-mo. C.D.: 0.70

Fleet National Bk (CT)
Money Mkt.: 0.40
3-mo. C.D.: 0.55
6-mo. C.D.: 0.70

HSBC Bank USA
Money Mkt.: 0.65
3-mo. C.D.: 0.75
6-mo. C.D.: 0.95

Hudson United Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.30
3-mo. C.D.: 0.50
6-mo. C.D.: 0.65

M&T Bank
Money Mkt.: N.O.
3-mo. C.D.: 0.60
6-mo. C.D.: 0.60

North Fork Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.40
3-mo. C.D.: 0.95
6-mo. C.D.: 1.05

PNC Bank (N.J.)
Money Mkt.: 0.30
3-mo. C.D.: 0.30
6-mo. C.D.: 0.35

Safra Nat'l Bk NY
Money Mkt.: 0.05
3-mo. C.D.: 0.90
6-mo. C.D.: 1.01

Trust Co of NJ/TrstCo
Money Mkt.: 0.40
3-mo. C.D.: 0.95
6-mo. C.D.: 1.05

Valley Nat'l Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.50
3-mo. C.D.: 0.75
6-mo. C.D.: 0.85

Wachovia Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.25
3-mo. C.D.: 0.65
6-mo. C.D.: 0.80

SAVINGS BANKS

Apple Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.25
3-mo. C.D.: 0.55
6-mo. C.D.: 0.50

Astoria Fed Savings
Money Mkt.: 0.10
3-mo. C.D.: 0.75
6-mo. C.D.: 0.90

Emigrant Savings
Money Mkt.: 0.70
3-mo. C.D.: 0.46
6-mo. C.D.: 0.55

GreenPoint Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.60
3-mo. C.D.: N.O.
6-mo. C.D.: 1.05
Hudson City SB (N.J.)

Independence Comm
Money Mkt.: 0.35
3-mo. C.D.: 0.60
6-mo. C.D.: 0.80
Bank

Investors Savings Bk
Money Mkt.: 1.35
3-mo. C.D.: 1.40
6-mo. C.D.: 1.50
People's Bank (Conn.)

Provident Bank
Money Mkt.: 1.00
3-mo. C.D.: 1.15
6-mo. C.D.: 1.30

Queens County Svgs Bk
Money Mkt.: 0.50
3-mo. C.D.: 0.85
6-mo. C.D.: 1.00

Roslyn Savings Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.20
3-mo. C.D.: 0.85
6-mo. C.D.: 1.00

SI Bank & Trust
Money Mkt.: 0.75
3-mo. C.D.: 0.80
6-mo. C.D.: 0.95

Sovereign Bank
Money Mkt.: 0.35
3-mo. C.D.: 0.90
6-mo. C.D.: 0.95

Washington Mutual Bk
Money Mkt.: 0.60
3-mo. C.D.: 0.90
6-mo. C.D.: 0.95

Webster Bank (Conn.)
Money Mkt.: 0.75
3-mo. C.D.: 1.00
6-mo. C.D.: 1.00

Major Banks Outside N.Y.

AmSouth Bank (Birmingham)
Money Mkt.: 0.10
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.80
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

BB&TCompanies (Raleigh, NC)
Money Mkt.: 0.10
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.65
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Bk of Amer (Charlotte)
Money Mkt.: 0.20
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.55
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Bank One (Highland Pk, IL)
Money Mkt.: 0.35
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.55
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Charter One BK, Cleveland)
Money Mkt.: 0.30
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 1.00
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Citibank, S.F.
Money Mkt.: 0.70
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.85
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Citizens Bk, PA. (Philadelphia)
Money Mkt.: N.O.
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.75
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
Comerica (Detroit)

Key Bank/(Toledo, OH)
Money Mkt.: 0.41
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.70
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

LaSalle Bank (Chicago)
Money Mkt.: 0.35
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.90
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Nat City Bk (Cleveland)
Money Mkt.: 0.40
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.60
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Regions Bank (Birmingham)
Money Mkt.: 0.05
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.95
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Southtrust Bank (Birmingham)
Money Mkt.: 0.30
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.90
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Sun Trust Bank (Atlanta)
Money Mkt.: 0.20
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.65
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

U S Bank (Minneapolis)
Money Mkt.: 0.15
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.60
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Union Bank of California, (San Francisco)
Money Mkt.: 0.35
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.25
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Wachovia Bank (Winston Salem, NC)
Money Mkt.: 0.25
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.65
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Washington Mutual Bk (CA)
Money Mkt.: 0.40
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.85
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

Wells Fargo Bk (Los Angeles)
Money Mkt.: 0.10
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.80
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

World Svings Bk (San Fran, CA)
Money Mkt.: 0.41
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00
6 Mo. C.D.: 0.91
Wkly. Chg.: 0.00

N.A. Rate not available N.O. Not offered

(Source by Bankrate.com N. Palm Beach 33408)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TD BANK US HOLDING CO (66%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (57%); HSBC BANK USA NA (54%); PNC BANK NA (53%); SAFRA NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK (52%); WELLS FARGO & CO (51%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (57%); WFC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



494 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

World Bank Meeting Plans To Focus on Poverty
With the global economic outlook improving, the top economists at the World Bank said the focus of their annual meetings this weekend would be further reducing poverty. They will try to persuade wealthy nations to drastically increase their aid to developing nations and bolster programs to halt the spread of AIDS and improve education in poor countries.
 Officials of the bank, who are meeting at the same time as officials of the International Monetary Fund, will also wrestle with the Bush administration's desire to see the World Bank and other United Nations affiliates do more to smooth Iraq's transition to a sovereign government. [Page C2.]

Xerox Earnings Beat Expectations
Xerox posted better-than-expected quarterly earnings on strong sales of copiers and printers, but pressure on profit margins sent the company's shares down 8.5 percent. Analysts said Xerox scored with its plan to increase sales of new machines, which now represent 71 percent of total revenue. But they expressed concern about the company's margins amid competition. [C4.]

Judge Overturns Tyson Verdict
A federal judge threw out a jury's $1.28 billion verdict against Tyson Fresh Meats, ruling that it did not illegally manipulate cattle prices. A lawyer for the cattlemen who sued Tyson said they would appeal. [C2.]

U.S. Rests Case Against Ex-Banker
The government rested its case at the retrial of the former investment banker Frank Quattrone, and the judge denied a defense request to declare him not guilty before the matter goes to a jury. [C4.]

Beer Seller Disputes Diet Plans
Anheuser-Busch has started an advertising campaign contending that low-carbohydrate diets are wrong and that beer can be consumed by people on such diets. [A11.]

A Guilty Plea in E-Mail Case
Steven Burton, a former assistant vice president at the the U.S. Trust Corporation unit of Charles Schwab, was arrested on charges of deleting e-mail messages related to an investigation by the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, into mutual fund trading. Mr. Burton, 35, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor. [C14.]

Microsoft Spurs Technology Rally
Solid earnings from Microsoft lifted technology stocks, but failed to trigger broad-based buying in other sectors. The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.86 points, to 2,049.77. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 11.64 points, to 10,472.84, and the Standard & Poor's 500 inched up 0.67, to 1,140.60. [C4.]

Orders for long-lasting factory goods rose 3.4 percent in March, more than economists had forecast, as corporate spending accelerated on machinery, metals and computers. [C4.]

Delta Wants to Cut Pilot Pay 30%
Gerald Grinstein, the chief executive of Delta Air Lines, said contract concessions from the pilots' union are inadequate and that the company is still seeking a 30 percent pay cut from the group. Pilots have offered to accept a 9 percent reduction and forgo a 4.5 percent increase set to take effect next month. [C4.]

Adecco Names a Financial Chief
Adecco named Jim Fredholm, an executive at Deutsche Post, as chief financial officer to succeed Felix Weber, who stepped down in January after disclosing an accounting scandal at Adecco Staffing North America. [C3.]

Loehmann's Agrees to a Merger
The discount clothing retailer Loehmann's Holdings announced that it would be acquired by a private investment firm, Crescent Capital Investments, for $177 million. [C14.]


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,472.84 up 11.64Nasdaq composite -- 2,049.77 up 16.8610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.46% up 0.07The euro -- $1.1832 down 0.0067The dollar -- 109.09 yen down 0.40Graph tracks weekly closes of the Nasdaq Composite since January 2003.Graph tracks share prices of Xerox for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JURY TRIALS (87%); GUILTY PLEAS (87%); JUDGES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); DIETING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); LAWYERS (71%); MISDEMEANORS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); PHOTOCOPIERS (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); NUTRITION (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (65%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (65%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (62%); ARRESTS (61%); AIRLINES (60%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (53%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: U S TRUST BANK OF AMERICA PRIVATE WEALTH MANAGEMENT (64%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (54%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); DAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (54%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



495 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: The Columbine Killers

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Five years ago, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold shot up Columbine High School. Now it's clear that much of what we thought about that horror was wrong.
 In the weeks following the killings, commentators and psychologists filled the air with theories about what on earth could have caused those teenagers to lash out as they did. The main one was that Harris and Klebold were the victims of brutal high school bullies. They were social outcasts, persecuted by the jocks and the popular kids. But there were other theories afloat: they'd fallen in with a sick Goth subculture; they were neglected by their families; they were influenced by violent video games; they were misfits who could find no place in a conformist town. 
 All these theories had one theme in common: that the perpetrators were actually victims. They had been so oppressed and distorted by society that they struck back in this venomous way. In retrospect, it's striking how avidly we clung to this perpetrator-as-victim narrative. It's striking how quickly we took the massacre as proof that there must be something rotten at Columbine High School. 
 As we've learned more about Harris and Klebold, most of these misconceptions have been exposed. The killers were not outcasts. They did not focus their fire on jocks or Christians or minorities. They were not really members of a ''Trenchcoat Mafia.'' 
 This week, in a superb piece in Slate magazine, Dave Cullen reveals the conclusions of the lead F.B.I. investigator, Dwayne Fuselier, as well as of the Michigan State psychiatrist Frank Ochberg and others who studied the Columbine shootings.
 Harris and Klebold ''laughed at petty school shooters,'' Cullen reports. They sought murder on a grander scale. They planned first to set off bombs in the school cafeteria to kill perhaps 600. Then they would shoot the survivors as they fled. Then their cars, laden with still more bombs, would explode amid the rescue workers and parents rushing to the school. It all might have come off if they had not miswired the timers on the propane bombs in the cafeteria.
 What motivated them? Here, Cullen says, it is necessary to distinguish Klebold from Harris. Klebold was a depressed and troubled kid who could have been saved. Harris was an icy killer. He once thought about hijacking a plane and flying it into Manhattan. 
 Harris wasn't bullied by jocks. He was disgusted by the inferior breed of humanity he saw around him. He didn't suffer from a lack of self-esteem. He had way too much self-esteem. 
 It's clear from excerpts of Harris's journals that he saw himself as a sort of Nietzschean Superman -- someone so far above the herd of ant-like mortals he does not even have to consider their feelings. He rises above good and evil, above the contemptible slave morality of normal people. He can realize his true, heroic self, and establish his eternal glory, only through some gigantic act of will. 
 ''Harris was not a wayward boy who could have been rescued,'' Cullen writes. Harris, the F.B.I. experts believe, ''was irretrievable.''
 Now, in 2004, we have more experience with suicidal murderers. Yet it is striking how resilient this perpetrator-as-victim narrative remains. We still sometimes assume that the people who flew planes into buildings -- and those who blew up synagogues in Turkey, trains in Spain, discos in Tel Aviv and schoolchildren this week in Basra -- are driven by feelings of weakness, resentment and inferiority. We cling to the egotistical notion that it is our economic and political dominance that drives terrorists insane.
 But it could be that whatever causes they support or ideologies they subscribe to, the one thing that the killers have in common is a feeling of immense superiority. It could be that they want to exterminate us because they regard us as spiritually deformed and unfit to live, at least in their world. After all, it is hard to pull up to a curb, look a group of people in the eye and know that in a few seconds you will shred them to pieces unless you regard other people's deaths as trivialities. 
 If today's suicide bombers are victims of oppression, then the solution is to lessen our dominance, and so assuage their resentments. But if they are vicious people driven by an insatiable urge to dominate, then our only option is to fight them to the death.
 We had better figure out who these bombers really are. After Columbine, we got it wrong. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (77%); BULLYING (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



496 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: March Orders For Factories Top Forecast, Rising 3.4%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Orders for long-lasting factory goods rose 3.4 percent in March, more than many economists had forecast, as corporate spending accelerated on machinery, metals and computers. 
 ''The manufacturing sector is on fire,'' said Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio. 
 The increase in orders for items made to last at least three years, known as durable goods, exceeded all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of 67 economists and came after a 3.8 percent rise in February, the Commerce Department said. 
 Economists had expected durable goods orders to rise 0.7 percent, to $185.2 billion. The increase exceeded the highest forecast, a 3 percent estimate from Citigroup economists. Orders excluding transportation equipment were expected to rise 1.4 percent, to $131.3 billion. 
 The jump in orders makes it more likely that companies will increase work hours or hiring, an economist with Lehman Brothers, Drew Matus, said. Manufacturers, including Qualcomm and Motorola, raised sales forecasts this week. Reports this month showed March retail sales rose the most in a year, and factory surveys for April showed higher orders and employment. 
 Excluding transportation equipment, orders rose 3.3 percent, the biggest rise since April 2002, after a 1.1 percent gain in February. 
 Bookings for nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft, an indicator of future business investment, rose 2.4 percent last month after rising a revised 2.8 percent in February. Shipments, which the government uses to construct quarterly gross domestic product figures, climbed 2.5 percent after falling 1 percent. Orders waiting to be filled for such equipment jumped 1 percent for a second month, suggesting production gains. 
 Orders for transportation equipment increased 3.6 percent. Bookings for motor vehicles rose 3.6 percent and aircraft orders were up 11.7 percent. 
 Primary metals orders jumped 7.2 percent in March after a 3.8 percent increase. Machinery orders increased 3.1 percent last month after rising 3.8 percent in February. Orders for computers and electronic products rose 0.2 percent last month after increasing 2.7 percent. 
 Orders for defense hardware fell 6.1 percent last month, after a 16.7 percent jump.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Reports say retail sales in March rose the most in a year. (Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images)Chart: ''Durable Goods Orders''Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.March: +3.4%Feb.: +3.8Jan.: -2.6Graph tracks durable goods' orders from October 2002 through March 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); SHIPMENTS (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); QUALCOMM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



497 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Meeting to Focus on Poverty

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23 

 BODY:
With the global economic outlook improving, the top economists at the World Bank said the focus of their annual meetings this weekend would be further reducing poverty.
 To that end, they will try to persuade wealthy nations to drastically increase their aid to developing nations and bolster programs to halt the spread of AIDS and improve education in poor countries.
 Officials of the bank, who are meeting at the same time as officials of the International Monetary Fund, will also wrestle with the Bush administration's desire to see the World Bank and other United Nations affiliates do more to smooth Iraq's transition to a sovereign government. While the handover of power is scheduled for the end of June, the World Bank's president, James D. Wolfensohn, says the bank and other institutions cannot do much more for Iraq until its dangerous security situation improves. 
 Until that happens, Mr. Wolfensohn said, they will focus on completing projects already begun. The bank has raised $400 million that has been placed in a trust fund for Iraq for use once it has an official, independent government -- but that is only a fraction of the $50 billion that the bank estimates will be needed over the next five years for reconstruction.
 Yet analysts say that pressure to speed the flow of money and reconstruction aid to Iraq is sure to grow. 
 ''The administration certainly wants more assistance for Iraq -- Iraq is the election,'' said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs in New York. ''You can't divorce Iraq from the meetings.''
 Mr. Wolfensohn also said World Bank officials were unable to get a clear picture of how self-sufficient an independent Iraq would be. ''What we don't know is how much income Iraq will derive from its oil or how much debt relief it will get from its creditors,'' he said.
 Iraq has debts of $120 billion, but former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, who was appointed by President Bush to serve as special envoy for debt reduction for Iraq, has won pledges from Middle Eastern countries and the group of leading industrial countries known as the Paris Club to reduce Iraq's debt.
 At their meetings this weekend, World Bank officials will also face pressure to increase financing for education and AIDS prevention. A new report to be released by Oxfam International, the nonprofit advocacy group, at the meetings will show that the World Bank's efforts to support education could prove critical to preventing the spread of AIDS and H.I.V.
 Using data from the United Nations and the World Bank, Oxfam calculated that seven million cases of H.I.V. could be prevented in the next decade if all children in the world received a complete primary education.
 ''We knew there was a correlation between the level of education and prevalence rates, but we had no idea how important education was to any prevention program,'' said Max Lawson, a consultant for Oxfam who helped write the report.
 The World Bank has an ''Education for All'' fast-track program aimed at getting wealthy nations to finance programs that will allow poorer countries to offer primary education for their citizens. 
 But Mr. Wolfensohn said he was ''quite embarrassed'' that many wealthy countries had refused to donate more money despite what he said were programs developed in some poor countries that are ''very good plans that are well-integrated and well-supported.''
 The Netherlands is one of the few countries that have met their commitment to a program that would spend at least $800 million a year for education programs in at least 10 poor countries.
 Officials from these international institutions said that wealthy nations had been reluctant to provide more money because they were worried about providing jobs for their own citizens and improving their own economic growth.
 Few countries, these officials say, are in the mood to make new commitments to international institutions. 
 Yet World Bank officials say that much of the world is facing an economic crisis, especially sub-Saharan Africa, where the number of people living in poverty has nearly doubled, to 314 million, over the last 20 years.
 According to economists, one of the most significant things that rich countries could do to help poor African nations would be to reduce or eliminate the $300 billion rich nations pay their farmers in subsidies and support. That one act, they said, would lift over 144 million people out of poverty.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Francois Bourguignon and Martin Ravallion of the World Bank discussed world poverty at a conference yesterday in Washington. (Photo by Mannie Garcia/Getty Images)
 Oxfam calculated that seven million cases of H.I.V. could be prevented in the next decade if all children received a complete primary education. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIDS & HIV (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



498 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Bids Exceed $300,000 in Medallion Auctio

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
The last few nights leading up to yesterday's taxi medallion auction were restless ones for Victor H. Salazar. He badly wanted to win, to finally become an owner. But did he want it this badly?
 The buzz in airport holding lots, taxi stands and coffeehouses frequented by drivers was that bid prices for the coming auction for individual drivers were going up and up. And at last week's corporate medallion auction, in which taxi fleets vied for the aluminum shields that bestow the right to operate a yellow cab in New York City, prices set records, climbing to more than $700,000 for a pair. But Mr. Salazar, 40, a jovial Ecuadorean immigrant who has been driving for more than two decades, lost $30,000 -- most of his life savings -- last year trying to buy a medallion on the open market through a taxi broker. The man, who was arrested recently, disappeared with his money, along with that of more than a dozen other struggling immigrant drivers. 
 Over the last week, Mr. Salazar talked things over with his new broker, Richard Chipman of Westway Medallion Sales. Taxi brokers typically connect buyers and sellers of medallions. For the auction, however, they function essentially as mortgage brokers, arranging financing for would-be owners. The brokers are licensed by the Taxi and Limousine Commission. Mr. Chipman is known as an aggressive lender, willing to finance drivers without the customary 20 percent down payment. He told Mr. Salazar that as long as he could come up with $25,000 by the closing date of his medallion purchase, he would help him. Mr. Salazar had scraped together only $17,000 so far -- his remaining savings, plus a $7,500 loan from a bank -- but he told Mr. Chipman he could come up with the full amount. 
 But what to bid? At first, Mr. Salazar thought: $285,000. But Mr. Chipman told him he needed to bid more, guessing it would take at least $290,000. After much agonizing, Mr. Salazar settled on a figure that would have been inconceivable to him a few weeks ago: almost $300,000. 
 Hundreds of other drivers, most of whom barely earn $30,000 a year, were making similar scribbled calculations over the last week, fretting over the cost of monthly payments, interest rates and what others might be bidding. The auction yesterday was a rare chance for large numbers of them to become owners -- over the next three years, 900 medallions will be auctioned off as part of the largest expansion of the taxi fleet since the Depression. 
 The allure of ownership proved strong yesterday for people scrambling for a foothold in this country. The eventual list of 270 bidders for the 126 individual medallions, which must be used by the owner, read like a tongue-twisting roster of a United Nations soccer team. 
 ''It's not the money involved,'' said Newton D. Adegbo, 59, a white-haired Nigerian immigrant who was the first person in the auditorium at New School University where the auction was held yesterday, settling into a seat in the second row at 8:30 a.m. ''It's what we call self-esteem.''
 Calling cab driving his ''addiction,'' Mr. Adegbo has been leasing from a fleet for more than 34 years. The difference between leasing and owning, he said, would be the pride he felt inside his chest.
 Just before 10 a.m. yesterday, Taxi and Limousine Commissioner Matthew W. Daus called from the lectern for security guards to, ''bring in the bids, please.'' Four beefy guards delivered three leather suitcases to the stage. Mr. Daus announced: ''Let the bidding begin.''
 But as Mr. Daus began reading the first bids to the small crowd, a group of noisy protesters in wheelchairs, angry about the lack of handicapped-accessible taxis in the city, halted the proceedings. By now, Mr. Salazar had arrived, taking a seat in the back. The protesters were eventually cleared from the room, and the reading of the bids continued, with each posted on a large display on stage.
 Initially, the prices were low, around $250,000, which was the market price in March for individual medallions. Asked if he was worried that he had overbid, Mr. Salazar shrugged. He had already put in his bid, he said, pointing out that a medallion is a long-term investment. Medallion prices have risen steadily since World War II, although they took a steep dive a few years ago after the last city sale of medallions. Even if he overpaid, he said, it would still be better than leasing. On Monday, Mr. Salazar said, he had gone to his taxi garage to pay his weekly lease, $680, only to be handed a flier informing him the lease would go up to $780 after the taxi fare increase. He calculated that as an owner, even with his nearly $300,000 bid, he would still have payments, including insurance, of only $690 a week.
 Still, he said, ''I don't want to be the idiot on the top.''
 Mr. Chipman came over to reassure him. Most of the early bids were from people who had submitted their bids without help from brokers, he said. ''Trust me, there's a lot more bids higher than this.''
 Sure enough, the bids quickly escalated. At 11 a.m., when Mr. Salazar ducked out for coffee, the first bid over $300,000 was read, from Gurmit Singh. The audience broke out in applause. 
 ''Omigosh,'' said Mr. Salazar, upon his return.
 The bidding quickly left some behind. Jassim Jesse, 45, a Bangladeshi taxi driver, complained that brokers had driven the prices up by advising drivers who did not know any better.
 ''I go to 10 brokers,'' he said. ''All brokers give same advice: put more, put more. Otherwise, you lose.''
 But Mr. Jesse calculated that the most he could afford was $240,000. Otherwise, he said, he would not be able to swing the monthly payments and support his wife and five children, who depend on his meager income. In 2001, his best year since he started driving a few years ago, he earned $28,960. Last year, however, his wages fell by more than half because of an accident in which he was rear-ended and sidelined by injuries for six months. Even now, he said, he still cannot work as many hours as he used to because of back pain.
 By noon yesterday, after about half of the bids had been announced, Mr. Jesse knew he had lost. He might leave the taxi business now, he said, and maybe use the savings he had accumulated for a down payment toward a candy store or coffeehouse.
 Mr. Salazar and Mr. Adegbo, who had bid $295,101.99, were still in good position. Their bids, however, had not yet been announced. 
 ''Coming up,'' Mr. Salazar said, edging up in his seat. ''This is really exciting.''
 Finally, Paul Wein, a spokesman for the taxi commission, read out: ''Victor H. Salazar,'' bid number 214 at $299,555.55. It put him in the top 30 bidders. By now the outcome seemed clear. Mr. Salazar and Mr. Adegbo looked to walk away winners. The low bid was around $280,000. 
 Mr. Chipman told Mr. Salazar he could help him get on the road quickly, if he wanted. But Mr. Salazar told him he was in no hurry. He needed time to come up with the rest of his down payment, and hoped to get some money from his relatives. His wife shot down the idea of selling her jewelry. 
 Even as the bidding wound down, prices continued to climb. Soon, a bid was opened for $311,111.11, drawing applause again. 
 In the end, the lowest winning bid turned out to be $283,299.99, with the average winning bid priced at $292,580.86. Mr. Salazar had overpaid, but not by too much. 
 Loubert Alexandre, 45, a Haitian driver, pulled up in front of the auditorium in his taxicab just as the bidding had finished, and learned that his bid of $295,550.99 had made him a winner as well. But he said he remained worried.
 ''The only thing I hope is the medallion does not devalue quickly,'' he said.
 But Mr. Salazar was jubilant. Outside, he hugged his broker and called his wife, speaking excitedly to her in Spanish. Even a $115 parking ticket he discovered later on his hood failed to dampen his spirits. 
 ''Why should I worry about a ticket,'' he said, ''when I have to worry about $299,000?''

Hailing a Dream
New York City will auction off 300 medallions each year for the next three years, the largest expansion of the taxi fleet since the Depression. Hundreds of people, mostly immigrants, are scraping money together to bid at auction on these precious aluminum slips that represent freedom, security and, perhaps one day, wealth. The corporate auction was last Friday; the individual auction was yesterday. This series will follow several bidders through the auction process to the moment when, with a little luck, they go to work with a shiny medallion of their own on their taxi's yellow hood. The first installment, which was published on April 13, is available at nytimes.com/nyregion.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bids were projected on the wall of an auditorium at New School University in the city's taxi medallion auction yesterday. The lowest winning bid was $283,299.99. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
Victor H. Salazar, right, celebrated with Richard Chipman, his broker, after learning that his bid of $299,555.55 was enough for him to buy a taxi medallion in the city fleet's largest expansion in decades.
 Jassim Jesse realized his bid had not been high enough, but stayed to watch the rest of auction, which took place at New School University. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (93%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); ARRESTS (53%); SOCCER (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



499 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Concerns Over Interest Rates Limit Gains in Shares

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street tussled again with interest rate concerns yesterday, closing slightly higher as a solid earnings report from Microsoft lifted technology stocks but failed to trigger broad-based buying in other sectors.
 The major stock indicators managed gains for the day, and a modest advance for the week.
 But declining issues had a 2-to-1 lead over advancers on the New York Stock Exchange, reflecting Wall Street's general uneasiness about rising rates.
 The market's nervousness was exacerbated by news of a surge in durable goods orders. 
 In addition to Microsoft, Corning posted a strong first quarter.
 The Dow Jones industrial average increased 11.64 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,472.84, after rising nearly 144 points on Thursday as investors had a one-session reprieve from rate concerns.
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.86 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,049.77, after its 1.9 percent surge on Thursday. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 0.67, or 0.1 percent, to 1,140.60.
 The Nasdaq outperformed the other indexes for the week, rising 2.7 percent, while the Dow rose 0.2 percent and the S.&P. 500 picked up 0.5 percent.
 Blue-chip stocks were lower for much of the day yesterday as a report of strong durable goods orders in March fanned fears that the economy may be bouncing back fast enough for the Federal Reserve Board to begin raising rates from 45-year lows.
 ''We're in a transition phase with this market,'' said Stuart Freeman, chief equity strategist for A.G. Edwards & Sons. ''For the first year of recovery, good news has been nothing but good news because investors weren't worried about the Fed raising rates. But when we get news like today, it causes worry about when the Fed will come in to raise rates and by how much.''
 Investors have been skittish about higher rates for the last two weeks, particularly after the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, gave two days of testimony in Congress this week that markets took to be a signal that interest rates could rise.
 Other signs of economic strength like jobs growth and higher consumer prices reinforced the concerns about higher rates, which could hurt stocks as well as bonds.
 ''I think the market's adjusting to the fact that the economy is gathering so much momentum. The question now is, will there by a shortage of labor?'' said Kevin Gaughan, portfolio manager and equity strategist at Strong Financial in Milwaukee. ''That's a sea change. Being an anticipatory creature, the market is looking ahead to the next issue.''
 Technology stocks advanced yesterday after Microsoft reported a big gain in revenue after the market close on Thursday. 
 Microsoft jumped $1.59, to $27.54, after the software giant posted a 17 percent gain in revenue last quarter and beat analysts' expectations for earnings growth.
 Amazon.com fell $2.57, to $46.29, despite posting a 41 percent increase in revenue and beating profit expectations in its latest quarter as investors worried whether the Internet retailer was discounting its products too much.
 Shares in Corning jumped $1.88, to $12.13, after the materials company, which specializes in fiber-optic and glass products, reported profits that handily beat forecasts, driven by a nearly twofold surge in sales of glass used in flat-screen computer monitors and televisions.
 WellChoice rose $1.88, to $39.90, after the company abandoned talks with Oxford Health Plans about taking over the rival health insurance company.
 Treasury prices fell yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32, to a price of 9612/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.46 percent from 4.39 percent on Thursday.
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dipped 1 15/32, to 101 2/32. The bond's yield climbed to 5.24 percent from 5.20 percent on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); TESTIMONY (60%); LABOR SHORTAGES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (78%) WISCONSIN, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



500 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2; Corrections

LENGTH: 53 words

 BODY:
A front-page article yesterday about a New York Times poll of New York City residents misstated the increase since last June in the number of people saying they believe that the city's economy is better than it was five years ago. More than twice as many gave that response in the latest poll, not ''almost'' twice as many.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (87%); CITIES (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



501 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: For Cleaner Air in the Land of the Free

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks (''Clearing the Air,'' column, April 20) suggests that the Bush administration ''could have moved aggressively to find another way forward'' when it became clear that the Kyoto treaty to limit greenhouse gas emissions ''was never going to be ratified by the Senate.''
 In fact, under President Bush's policies, the United States is leading the world in initiatives to curb the growth of greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in the development of new energy technologies that will also reduce America's dependence on foreign oil.
 These efforts include developing hydrogen fuel technologies designed to replace gasoline with pollution-free hydrogen; carbon sequestration technologies to remove greenhouse emissions from coal and other fossil fuels; efforts to make nuclear power, which produces no greenhouse gases, safer and more economical; research into nuclear fusion as a power source for the future; the FutureGen project to develop a coal-fired power plant that emits no pollutants or greenhouse gases; and incentives to expand the use of renewable energy sources like wind and solar.

SPENCER ABRAHAM
Secretary of Energy
Washington, April 22, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); WIND ENERGY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (74%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



502 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: For Abortion Rights Cause, a New Diversity

BYLINE: By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23 

 BODY:
When Kalpana Krishnamurthy rallies supporters here this weekend at a march for abortion rights, the first such national gathering in 12 years, she will be doing so as director of the Third Wave Foundation, a nationwide feminist group.
 But Ms. Krishnamurthy's perspective on the issue is shaped by far more than domestic debate. Her parents immigrated to the United States from India, where most of her large extended family still lives and where although abortion is legal, the right to it is intertwined with continuing battles over other women's issues, including domestic violence and economic opportunity. 
 And when she marches on Sunday, she said, she will also be representing women across South Asia whose access to social services has been limited by an American policy that bars financing to international organizations that perform or provide information on abortions.
 ''The impact of these laws is intensely personal and far-reaching to me,'' said Ms. Krishnamurthy, 27. ''What we need to do is find a way to talk about reproductive rights so it hits as deeply and personally to other young women in the United States.'' 
 As abortion rights advocates prepare for Sunday's event, which they call the March for Women's Lives, veterans of the movement say they have been striving to address a decline in support among women under age 30. But young first-generation Americans and recent immigrants, many of whom maintain connections to countries where reproductive rights are part of a still-burgeoning struggle over women's issues, are bringing new energy and broader perspectives to the cause.
 This weekend Ms. Krishnamurthy will be joined in a youth-focused coalition by other new leaders like Silvia Henriquez, 29, the daughter of Salvadoran immigrants who is now director of the National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health, and Crystal Plati, 30, born in Cyprus, raised in Queens and now director of Choice USA, a multiethnic outreach organization started by Gloria Steinem.
 These young leaders are far from the only newcomers to the movement, however. Of more than 1,400 groups that have signed up to send delegations to the march, dozens are just starting to lend their efforts, among them Lambda Theta Alpha Latin Sorority and South Asians for Choice, an organization founded last month by two recent Brown University graduates who have organized 150 people to participate in this weekend's activities. 
 Longtime abortion rights advocates lament what they view as a growing complacency among women who have come of age in the 31 years since the Supreme Court's ruling in Roe v. Wade legalized the procedure.
 ''Women today assume rights,'' said Kate Michelman, president of Naral Pro-Choice America. ''They don't feel a sense of urgency.'' 
 New leaders acknowledge the challenge in mobilizing the post-Roe generation. But they believe that their understanding of issues concerning younger women among a variety of ethnic groups can help the movement expand its reach.
 The word ''abortion'' is spoken sparingly by the younger advocates, who say it can restrict outreach and allow anti-abortion groups to wage a single-issue debate. Many of these organizers, using terms like ''reproductive rights'' and ''reproductive justice,'' say their agenda must include issues like comprehensive sex education, emergency contraception, affordable prenatal care for low-income women and, for immigrants, improved access to reproductive health care by providers who speak their patients' native languages.
 The youth-focused coalition in which Ms. Plati, Ms. Henriquez and Ms. Krishnamurthy are participating will sponsor a workshop on Saturday called the 10 in 10 Gathering, a reference, organizers say, to the fact that while not all young women will have to confront a decision about abortion, 10 in 10 will have to deal broadly with their sexual health.
 ''When we define choice,'' Ms. Plati said, ''it's about a woman's right to decide if and when she will have sex, if and when she will get pregnant, if and when she will carry a pregnancy to term, and if and when she will raise a child.''
 Veteran abortion rights supporters generally welcome the new diversity of thought, though some caution that the movement cannot let down its guard on abortion specifically. 
 ''These new issues reflect the reality of women's lives,'' said Ms. Michelman, who has visited dozens of college campuses in recent months to build support for the march. ''But the fundamental right to choose, as recognized in Roe, is really at great risk, and that could change the reality very severely and suddenly. We have to maintain focus on that.''
 That is an argument not lost on Leila Balali, a software engineer who stopped by Naral Pro-Choice America's organizing center here this week. Ms. Balali, 35, who was born and raised in Iran but has been in the United States since 1986, said that although she would be unable to attend the march, she wanted to help make posters as a show of support. 
 ''This shouldn't even be an issue in this country,'' she said. ''Women in this country need to realize that if they don't raise their voices, slowly, slowly they may lose their voice.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (93%); WOMEN (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (76%); FAMILY (76%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (73%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



503 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-10

More Pressure on Rebels In Falluja to Yield Arms
American authorities increased the pressure on besieged insurgents in the Sunni Muslim stronghold of Falluja with blunt warnings that if they did not lay down their arms, United States soldiers would attack within days. L. Paul Bremer III, the American administrator, warned that the plan for stability and democracy might not succeed unless ordinary Iraqis come to its defense. A1

U.N. Critical of Vocal Envoy
United Nations officials moved to disassociate the organization from remarks made by its special envoy to Iraq, Lakhdar Brahimi. Mr. Brahimi said Israel's repressive policy and Washington's support of it were poisoning the Middle East and aggravating the situation in Iraq. A8

Arafat as a Possible Target
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel no longer considers himself bound by his pledge to President Bush not to harm Yasir Arafat. When asked if that meant physically harming Mr. Arafat, Mr. Sharon replied, ''I do not think this matter can be made any clearer.'' A4

Sanctions Against Libya Lifted
President Bush lifted most of the remaining restrictions on doing business with Libya, and for the first time in decades authorized the establishment of an American diplomatic mission in Tripoli. He said he was acting because Libya has rid itself of weapons of mass destruction. A1

Lab Linked to SARS Cases
The Chinese government began screening travelers at airports and train stations and sealed off its main SARS laboratory after an apparent safety breach at the lab led to four confirmed and suspected cases, including a death. A1

North Korea Appeals for Help
North Korea reached out to the world in a rare appeal for help after a train accident killed dozens and injured thousands. A3

NATIONAL A11-14, 18

Cardinal Signals Backing For Sanctions on Kerry
A Vatican cardinal Addressing a question about Senator John Kerry's support for abortion rights said that a politician who supports abortion ''is not fit'' to receive communion. A13

First-generation Americans and recent immigrants, many of whom maintain connections to countries where reproductive rights are part of a struggle over women's issues, are bringing energy to the abortion rights cause. A14

Bush Raises $4.4 Million
President Bush made a 21st and highly lucrative visit to Florida, coupling a promotion of his environmental policies with two fund-raisers for the Republican National Committee that brought in $4.4 million. A13

Sisters Unsure of Return to War
Rachel and Charity Witmer, members of the Wisconsin National Guard serving in Iraq, have been granted another 15 days of leave to decide whether to seek reassignment after their sister, Michelle, was killed in Baghdad. A14

G.O.P. Predicts Close Race
Concerns about the nation's economy and the war in Iraq will make the presidential election ''very, very close,'' the chairman of the Republican National Committee said. A13

A Coors Runs for the Senate
The Coors family, which helped to shape Colorado through its philanthropy, conservative politics and beer making, may influence control of the United States Senate through the candidacy of Peter H. Coors. A11

OBITUARIES A15

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Brewer Assails Diet Claims
A beer company has loudly attacked the South Beach diet over a chemical that may or may not lurk in beer and may or may not make any difference if it does. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Girlfriend's Diary Details Einstein's Final Musings
A diary written by the girlfriend of Albert Einstein, detailing the scientist's musings, opinions and complaints over the last year and a half of his life, was found in February. The diary amounts to a sort of portrait of the genius as an old man and shows him as almost ordinary. A1

Charity Short on Security
The Fresh Air Fund, credited with much good work over the decades, has been slow to adopt safety precautions used by other organizations, interviews with experts in child protection and other charities show. B1

Car Makers Forgo Leasing
Nearly a dozen automobile makers, including Ford, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler, have decided that the financial risks of leasing cars in New York are too great because of a law that holds the owners of vehicles responsible for any accidents, even if the car is in not their possession. A1

Analysts and investors are asking whether DaimlerChrysler's chief executive, can hold his company together after its unexpected refusal to aid a bailout of Mitsubishi Motors. C1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

Ex-Player Is Killed in Action
Pat Tillman, 27, a football player who joined the Army in June 2002 after spurning a three-year, $3.6 million contract offer from the Arizona Cardinals, was killed in Afghanistan. D1

ARTS & IDEAS B9-16

Poets Tend to Die Early
Poets tend to die younger than other types of writers, according to a large study, which argues that the earlier death rate is probably due to the nature of the poetic endeavor. B9

Jackson's Business Troubles
Several business deals potentially lucrative for Michael Jackson have evaporated since he was accused of sexually abusing a boy in 2003. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Insurance Fees Investigated
Officials in New York and California have opened investigations into the incentives and other fees paid by insurance companies to commercial insurance brokers, industry executives and officials said. C1

Google Moves Toward Offering
Google is expected to take a first step next week toward a future public stock offering, a person close to the company said. But it is likely to stop short of filing a formal registration to sell shares, the person said. C1

In Iraq for the Long Haul
Halliburton appears to be gritting its teeth in anticipation of a long slog ahead in Iraq. C1

Stocks End Week Higher
The Dow rose 11.64 points, to 10,472.84, 20.87 points higher than last week. The Nasdaq increased 16.86 points, to 2,049.77, up 54.03 points from last week. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: A compromised voting system; new test for new Americans; Dorothy Samuels on the movable feast called ''judicial education.''

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ABORTION (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); RELIGION (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); WOMEN (70%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); SARS (64%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (70%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HOLY SEE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



504 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Google Flirts; Investors Wonder About Date

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, April 23 

 BODY:
Google, the Web search company that has developed a huge following around the world, is expected to take a tentative first step next week toward a public stock offering, a person close to the company said Friday. But it is likely to stop short of filing a formal registration to sell shares, the person said.
 In recent days speculation on Wall Street and Silicon Valley has reached a fever pitch over Google's long-awaited offering, which has become the most highly anticipated event in the technology world here since the dot-com boom collapsed in early 2000.
 But Google, which prides itself on its quirky and secretive corporate culture, appears prepared to drag out any public offering as long as possible. Google is being driven to disclose basic financial details of its operations next week by an obscure provision of securities law. 
 The company's executives have consistently refused public comment on Google's plans for a public offering and they maintained that stance on Friday. But the interest in the company has grown so intense in recent days that some of them have found themselves badgered in front of the company's headquarters by television crews eager for comment on an offering that could easily raise $2 billion or more and give Google a market value of as much as $20 billion to $25 billion.
 Such an offering, when it comes, would make billionaires of the young computer science experts, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, who founded the company only five years ago while still graduate students at Stanford University.
 In contrast to most of the Silicon Valley companies of the 1990's dot-com era, Google is believed to be highly profitable and to be growing rapidly. 
 Already, only five years after getting off the ground, Google is generating almost $1 billion in revenue annually, according to executives who have been given information about the company's finances, and may have profits of more than $300 million. That gusher of cash has permitted Google to build a network of more than 100,000 computers located in data centers around the world.
 The company has hired more than 1,000 employees, a number of them highly educated computer and software experts. Among that elite group, it has fostered an atmosphere that encourages innovation and initiative that harkens back to an era where bright young technical wizards came up with clever ideas and almost instantly became millionaires.
 At the same time, Google has hired a cadre of workers who sell advertisements and work in an environment that is both a pressure cooker and not as creative as that surrounding its computer scientists, programmers and hardware engineers.
 The speculation over Google's plan is escalating now because the company has distributed stock options widely to its employees, making it subject to a regulation that is part of a 1934 securities law that requires public disclosure by private companies once they reach more than 500 shareholders.
 At an employee meeting last month, the company's executives stated that Google had embarked on the path toward a public offering. They did not give any information, however, about the possible timing of the effort.
 Those close to the company say that Google's top executives are under pressure because of fears that it may damage employee morale if they do not move ahead quickly to give them an opportunity to turn their shares and options into real wealth.
 But from inside and outside the company there have also been repeated rumblings that the founders of the company and its outside investors are still debating the value of an immediate public offering.
 Google is backed by two of Silicon Valley's premier venture capital firms, Kleiner Perkins, Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital; a highly sought after public offering would become an extremely lucrative achievement for both firms.
 Google's founders, however, are leery, Silicon Valley insiders say, of giving up control of their company as well as the operational and cultural changes that a public offering might bring about.
 The company has considered the possibility of two classes of stock, they say, a route that would permit the founders to retain tight control, but would also reduce the value of a public offering substantially.
 ''You don't usually see this in the technology sector,'' said Jocelyn Areal a partner at Testa, Hurwitz & Thibeault, a Boston law firm. ''However, anything is possible at this company. If you're pushing the envelope, anything is possible in terms of how they structure or price the deal.''
 In Silicon Valley computer scientists are often viewed as people who see the world's problems as solvable through a set of algorithms or equations, and this is particularly true of the Google culture, according to people both inside and outside of the company.
 This has led to differences between the company's venture backers and founders, said a person at one of the venture firms that backs Google.
 ''I wouldn't call it tensions, but there are differences,'' he said. ''I think our attitude is, 'let's not be too cute.''' The growing pressure on Google to file to sell shares to the public also comes at a time that it is facing growing competition. Its former business partner and investor, Yahoo, has recently gone into direct competition with Google. Meanwhile, Microsoft, the world's largest and most powerful software concern, is expected to attempt to offer a service that competes more directly with Google later this year.
 The renewed interest in finding new and financially rewarding ways to offer Web search engines comes years after most Internet companies bet against search as a business, believing that it would become a cheap and easily available commodity. Google outflanked all of the Web portals and Internet providers, however, by gaining loyalty from Web surfers who found it a very fast and impartial pointer to any information to be found on the Internet.
 Google, which quickly generated revenue by selling targeted ad space alongside individual search results, has begun to extend its strategy. Most recently, it introduced an experimental online electronic mail service, Gmail, which distinguishes itself by offering users the ability to quickly find their messages, which are stored on Google's servers.
 The service, which is now being tested by a limited number of users, has drawn opposition from a number of privacy activists, because the Google system involves searching through e-mail to target ads to users.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric E. Schmidt is chief executive of Google. The company has been extremely closemouthed about the possibility of an initial public offering. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Searching for the Next Big Thing''When the new economy was booming any company with a dot-com after its name could be certain of initial success if it went public. While many of those companies proved to be successful, not all of them lived up to their initial hype. Here are some examples.NetscapeISSUE DATE: Aug. '95MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): $136.9Yahoo!ISSUE DATE: April '96MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): 33.8eBayISSUE DATE: Sept. '98MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): 63.0ExpediaISSUE DATE: Nov. '99MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): 72.8Amazon.comISSUE DATE: May '97MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): 54.0Priceline.comISSUE DATE: March '99MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): 116.0Ask JeevesISSUE DATE: July '99MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): 42.0Akamai TechnologiesISSUE DATE: Oct. '99MONEY RAISED (IN MILLIONS): 34.0Graphs track returns through 1 day, 1 month, and through yesterday.(The following numerical figures are given for select companies):Yahoo! -- through yesterday: +5,216%eBay -- through yesterday: +5,406%Amazon.com -- one month: -18.1%Amazon.com: -- through yesterday: +2,986%Priceline.com -- through yesterday: -72.5%Akamai Technologies -- through yesterday: -45.7%(Sources by Thomson Financial
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OFFERINGS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (86%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (79%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); CORPORATE CULTURE (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (74%); LARRY PAGE (59%); SERGEY BRIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



505 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Halliburton, in Iraq for the Long Haul, Recruits Employees Eager for Work

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: HOUSTON, April 23 

 BODY:
Is Iraq the right destination for a 48-year-old with eight grandchildren? Cynthia Johnson, the grandmother in question, laughed at the query as she tried on an airtight yellow jumpsuit that might protect her from a chemical weapons attack. 
 Ms. Johnson and hundreds of others hired by the Halliburton Company packed into what used to be a J.C. Penney store at the Greenspoint Mall here this week to prepare to go to Iraq. She said her job there, serving food to American troops, was more promising than her previous occupation, cooking on an offshore oil platform in the Gulf of Mexico. 
 ''The money's better and there's the feeling I'm doing something useful,'' said Ms. Johnson, a native of Deridder, La. ''My daughters and grandchildren worry for me, but a job like this doesn't come up every day.'' 
 Other contractors, including General Electric and Siemens, have suspended their work in Iraq after an escalation of violence in the last month that singles out civilians. Halliburton, meanwhile, the most prominent company there with government contracts valued at $8 billion, appears to be gritting its teeth in anticipation of a long slog ahead.
 Its frenzied efforts to prepare a new round of American workers to go to Iraq and the increasingly grim assessment of the risks there stand in contrast with the view that the contracts initially awarded to Halliburton last year, some without competitive bidding, would be a boon for the company. 
 Still, David J. Lesar, the company's chief executive, said Halliburton had no intention of slowing down in Iraq or leaving. ''We're absolutely not going to pull out of there,'' Mr. Lesar said in an interview.
 To be sure, Halliburton is the company Vice President Dick Cheney once ran, lifting it to prominence from its once obscure status as a concern known mostly for oilfield services. The company fought hard to secure the contracts that were once viewed as plum rewards but now have evolved into headaches and at times, a public relations nightmare. An early exit would seem untenable especially in light of the controversy surrounding Mr. Cheney's ties to the company, questions over how the company won some contracts and its overbilling for some services in Iraq. 
 None of this seems to slow the hundreds of people who stream into Houston each week from around the United States to vie for blue-collar jobs in Iraq. Most are lured by tax-free salaries of about $80,000 and sometimes more for overtime and unusually hazardous duty.
 Many of those going through the two-week screening process were hesitant to give their names until passing background checks and absorbing the description of the risks associated with working in Iraq, which include graphic photos of wounded employees returning home. Some had not notified their bosses in other jobs or even their spouses that they might go to Iraq, fearful of doing so until absolutely sure of going.
 ''I guess I'm lucky not to have those issues since I'm unmarried, unemployed and ready for some steady work,'' said Michael Curry, 40, of Houston. Mr. Curry said he lost his job maintaining aircraft systems after air travel plummeted following the terrorist attacks in September 2001, so he was eager to be offered a position repairing air-conditioning units in Iraq by Halliburton. ''This'll be my first time overseas, but I just want a job.''
 A grim acknowledgement that opportunities could outweigh risks pervades Halliburton's executive suite as well these days. Mr. Lesar's description of the mood at the company's spartan headquarters here is ''solemn and serious.'' He should know, after returning last week from Kuwait to calm nerves among the company's truck drivers after three drivers were killed and one kidnapped in an ambush of their fuel convoy in nearby Iraq.
 Since the start of the war, Halliburton has lost 33 employees and contractors in attacks or accidents in that country, more than the military casualties of any coalition member except the United States and Britain. Scrutinized by critics claiming it is profiteering from war, Halliburton has reluctantly admitted to overcharging the Pentagon for services like food preparation and gasoline delivery for American troops. 
 Adding to the pressure on the company, investors are groaning about measly profit margins the company has reported generated by its contracts in Iraq. With other contractors suspending their Iraqi operations in recent days, some are questioning why Halliburton does not limit its exposure to Iraq or at least consider selling the subsidiary, Kellogg Brown & Root, handling its work there.
 ''From a business mix standpoint, the Iraq work has little or no fit with the rest of the organization,'' said Gary Russell, an analyst in Denver with Stifel Nicolaus, a brokerage firm, who looks favorably on the company's other operations. Mr. Russell noted the ''razor thin'' profit margins of the Iraq contracts, which range from a base level of 1 percent to 2 percent and slightly higher depending on the company's performance; margins climb to 10 percent for other jobs like building liquefied natural gas terminals.
 Could Halliburton be ruing the day it entered Iraq? Not quite, as senior executives prepare to discuss the company's financial results with investors next Wednesday. Part of the appeal of the Iraq contracts lies in serving a loyal customer, the United States government, that pays its bills on time. ''I think our shareholders understand why we're in this business,'' Mr. Lesar said, citing the company's work for American military operations around the world since World War II.
 Still, Mr. Lesar, who has run Halliburton since his predecessor, Mr. Cheney, stepped down to campaign for vice president in 2000, did not rule out selling or spinning off Kellogg Brown & Root. But he pointed out the unit was currently in bankruptcy protection as part of an effort to resolve asbestos claims, a process that could take months to conclude before a decision can be made. ''Besides, we still have a mission to do,'' Mr. Lesar said.
 In the meantime, markets are rewarding Halliburton as it advances in other areas like oilfield services and the resolution of asbestos lawsuits and a costly contract dispute with Brazil's national oil company. Halliburton's stock has climbed nearly 50 percent in the last year, closing at $30.85 on Friday, fueled largely by optimism about its non-Iraq operations, which account for nearly 60 percent of the company's sales.
 ''Halliburton's benefited by the perception that investors don't think the sky is falling anymore,'' said James H. Stone, an analyst at UBS in New York. ''But their work in Iraq has clearly been a retardant.''
 As Mr. Lesar and other executives seek a balance between operations in Iraq and other activities, the company proceeded to prepare truck drivers, electricians, plumbers, cooks and others, to join about 24,000 other employees and contractors Halliburton has in Iraq, an operation that has swelled to account for a quarter of its overall work force. No one gave any indication that hiring would slow down anytime soon.
 Halliburton's training center remained the most frenzied area of the Greenspoint Mall this week, easily outranking in popularity the retailers and recruiting offices for the armed forces located down nearby shiny corridors. ''I found out about this opportunity while on the road in South Carolina,'' said a Halliburton recruit from Marion, Ohio, who offered only his first name, Roe, and was hired as a truck driver. 
 ''I'm just telling my sons I'm going there to help the Army,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Employees of Halliburton test equipment that could protect them from attacks in Iraq. Many are lured to the hazardous jobs by tax-free salaries.
David J. Lesar, chief of Halliburton, said the company had no intention of leaving Iraq. ''We're absolutely not going to pull out of there,'' he said. (Photographs by Carlos Javier Sanchez for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Cynthia Johnson trains for a job in Iraq. ''The money's better and there's the feeling I'm doing something useful,'' Ms. Johnson said. (Photo by Carlos Javier Sanchez for The New York Times)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (94%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); SIEMENS AG (56%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (94%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (94%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (94%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (94%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: DAVID J LESAR (76%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (77%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



506 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Jackson's Indictment Clouds Future Deals

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 23 

 BODY:
Michael Jackson's indictment on Wednesday by a grand jury in Santa Barbara on charges of child molestation will only intensify Mr. Jackson's difficulties in continuing his career as a recording artist and businessman, his former advisers say.
 Since November 2003, when he was first accused of sexually abusing a boy earlier that year at his Neverland ranch north of Santa Barbara, Mr. Jackson has completed several business deals that were in place at the time. They include a CBS entertainment special in January and the release of ''Number Ones,'' a Sony Music CD of his No. 1 hits. 
 But several potentially lucrative business deals that were in the offing have since evaporated, and those formerly involved say the arrangements cannot be revived unless Mr. Jackson is cleared of all charges.
 ''Given all the circumstances, it's only natural that many deals that were envisioned cannot be executed at this point,'' said Ronald Konitzer, one of several former business advisers to Mr. Jackson who have not had access to him since the scandal erupted and Leonard Mohammed, a leader of the Nation of Islam, took charge of Mr. Jackson's affairs.
 Mr. Konitzer added: ''There are some things in the works that I believe will be successfully concluded. But I just wish it would be more.''
 Mr. Konitzer was part of a group that had developed MJ Universe, a 10-year multitiered plan to revive Mr. Jackson's business empire. The plan would have leveraged his name as a brand to be allied to electronics and high-technology companies like cellphone networks and video entertainment businesses.
 The venture also included a plan to create a movie studio with a Canadian investor, a project that has now evaporated, Mr. Jackson's former advisers said.
 Similarly, investors who were looking to ally themselves with Mr. Jackson to buy Sony's half of a music catalog that he owns with Sony (it includes the Beatles' work) have distanced themselves. Among the investors, the former advisers said, are foreign business executives, including a group in Bahrain, and Don Hannah, an investor leading a venture capital group based in Arizona.
 Charles Koppelman, who manages Mr. Jackson's music affairs, said Mr. Jackson was continuing to record from Los Angeles, where he now lives. ''There are things I'm waiting to hear, some tracks that are done,'' he said.
 Mr. Jackson's recording deal with Sony, with which he has had a business relationship since 1975, will end with the release of a boxed set of his music sometime next year, Mr. Koppelman said. Sony Music's retail Web site, www.sonymusicstore.com, now also offers for sale ''The One,'' a DVD of Mr. Jackson.
 Mr. Jackson will seek a deal with a new record company, but music industry experts said that would be difficult to accomplish, given not only the taint of his forthcoming trial but also the poor economic prospects of the industry.
 Mr. Koppelman disagreed. ''I think they'll be lined up around the block,'' he said, but then added, ''It won't be a long line, since there's not that many'' record companies left.
 Before the charges, Mr. Jackson had made a series of lucrative deals with television networks for entertainment specials involving interviews, performances and video taken by the Jackson entourage.
 Fox, which broadcast two Michael Jackson specials in 2003, had been pitched another project by one of Mr. Jackson's business managers and had passed, said Scott Grogin, a spokesman for the network.
 But Fox also had a multishow deal with Mr. Jackson, which has not been executed since the charges emerged. The Jackson deals had been negotiated with Mike Darnell, Fox's chief of reality programming, who has not been in touch with the Jackson camp since November, Mr. Grogin said. ''No calls from them,'' he said. ''No calls from him to them.''
 Even charity groups that had been proud to use Mr. Jackson's name to raise money have been reluctant to do so since the accusations became public. Barrett-Jackson, a company in Scottsdale, Ariz., that was going to auction one of Mr. Jackson's Bentleys for charity, backed out, said a former Jackson adviser who requested anonymity to protect other business interests.
 ''The charges on the table here are directly connected to the business challenges,'' he said. ''But the objective here is to get acquitted in court, period. The objective is not to return to 1984 and be big again. That is not on the table.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Jackson at a Washington gala April 1. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); FILM (77%); MUSIC (75%); CHILDREN (73%); SCANDALS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%); RELIGION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%); BAHRAIN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



507 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16; Editorial Observer

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Golf Anyone? The Movable Feast Called 'Judicial Education'

BYLINE: By DOROTHY SAMUELS

 BODY:
Amid the uproar over Justice Antonin Scalia's duck-hunting trip with Vice President Dick Cheney, I phoned a federal judge I know to get his take on the matter. Speaking off the record, the judge, a seasoned court veteran, sharply criticized Mr. Scalia's judgment, first in going on the trip, and accepting free rides on Air Force Two for himself and two relatives, and then in refusing to step aside when the case challenging the secrecy of Mr. Cheney's energy task force is heard next Tuesday by the Supreme Court. 
 But the judge's disapproval instantly shifted from Mr. Scalia to this editorial writer when I suggested a similarity between the duck-hunting episode and a broader, less publicized judicial travel outrage. I'm speaking of the well-attended ''judicial education'' programs that are staged at resorts offering excellent golf, fly-fishing and horseback riding and are financed by private interests bent on influencing judges to curb federal regulatory authority in areas like protecting the environment. 
 ''It's a non-issue,'' the judge snapped at me, adding that he'd attended such a seminar himself years ago and found the discussions to be ''interesting and informative.'' 
 The exchange had a familiar ring to it. Much as many members of Congress resisted the 1995 gift ban, which barred lawmakers from accepting free meals and other largesse from lobbyists, many otherwise ethically alert judges are loath to relinquish their compromising travel perks. 
 So the problem festers. An eye-opening report four years ago by the Community Rights Counsel, an environmental group, revealed that between 1992 and 1998, more than a quarter of the federal judiciary -- some 230 federal judges -- took advantage of a loophole in current ethical guidelines to accept the free vacations. The report also noted a troubling correlation between attendance at such seminars and rulings scaling back environmental protections, suggesting that these gifts are affecting judicial decisions. A new follow-up report by the same group finds these strategic private seminars are continuing apace, having been effectively protected by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and other judicial leaders who have quashed formative efforts at reform within Congress and by the American Bar Association. 
 Moreover, as the Community Rights Counsel recently set forth in a formal ethics complaint, three federal appellate judges -- Judge Douglas Ginsburg, chief of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and Judges Jane Roth of the Third Circuit and Danny Boggs of the Sixth Circuit -- openly flout current limits on judges' off-the-bench activities by serving on the board of the Foundation for Research on Economics and the Environment. That group, an environmental advocacy outfit, has both a strident antiregulatory profile and gobs of money from energy industry interests to run educational/recreational seminars for federal judges in Montana and elsewhere. 
 Unlike Mr. Scalia's now infamous rustic vacation with Mr. Cheney, most garden-variety judicial junkets are unlikely to become grist for a David Letterman Top 10 list. Still, their harm to judicial integrity and impartiality in allowing well-heeled special interests to wine, dine and lobby judges under the deceptively neutral-sounding heading of ''judicial education'' is profound. 
 No matter how they are framed, these privately financed trips cannot be squared with a judge's fundamental duty to avoid even the appearance of impropriety. Nor can they be justified by the ongoing failure of the Congress to give judges the considerable pay raise they deserve. For a special bar association commission reviewing possible changes to the bar's influential Model Code of Judicial Conduct, barring these junkets ought to be an easy call. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL EDUCATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); ETHICS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); HORSES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); SPORT FISHING (53%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (90%); DICK CHENEY (88%); DOUGLAS H GINSBURG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2004



508 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Greek Cypriots Reject a U.N. Peace Plan

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS

DATELINE: NICOSIA, Cyprus, April 24 

 BODY:
Divided as ever as Cyprus limps into the European Union, Greek Cypriots rejected a United Nations peace plan on Saturday that would have reunited the Turkish and Greek sides of the island, while Turkish Cypriots approved it.
 Three of four Greek Cypriots rejected the plan put forward by Secretary General Kofi Annan that would have allowed tens of thousands of Cypriots to return to homes they lost in 1974 when Turkish troops occupied the northern third of the island in response to an attempt by Greece to annex the entire island. 
 In contrast, about 65 percent of Turkish Cypriots approved the United Nations plan in the hopes of ending their international isolation and shaking off the effects of a 30-year economic embargo. 
 The Mediterranean island is only 35 miles from Turkey's coastline, closer than it is to Greece. It has twice in the past half-century brought Greece and Turkey, ancient rivals and NATO allies, to the brink of war. The prime ministers of both countries, as well as the United States and the European Union, had supported the reunification plan, and said their improved relations would not be affected by the outcome of the Cyprus vote. 
 But without an endorsement from both Cypriot sides, which voted in separate referendums, the peace plan is effectively dead. Both Mr. Annan and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell have warned the Cypriots that no other settlement effort is on the horizon.
 Mr. Annan had stepped in personally last month to propose the plan after negotiations between the parties once again broke down.
 As a measure of its disappointment, the United Nations announced after the vote that it was closing the office of its peace envoy here. ''I will be paying farewell calls at the beginning of the week,'' Alvaro de Soto, the envoy, said at a news conference. He said the international community would act to improve the situation of Turkish Cypriots.
 Turnout for the vote was high, with 90 percent of the 480,000 registered Greek Cypriots and 75 percent of the 143,000 Turkish Cypriots voting. It was the first time citizens had the opportunity to vote on any peace plan since the partition of the island. 
 European officials sharply criticized the Greek Cypriot leadership last week, accusing it of misleading Europe into believing that it would support reunification after Cyprus was invited to become a member in 2003. 
 But the Greek Cypriot president, Tassos Papadopoulus, spurned the Europeans' advice and instead urged voters to reject the plan, telling them they would have another chance at a better deal if they voted no on the Annan plan. 
 His government will represent the entire island when it enters the European Union on May 1 as one of 10 new members, although it does not control one-third of its territory and a quarter of its population. All Cypriots, however, have the right to Cyprus passports, which will give all of them status as European citizens. 
 In the northern part of the island, the Turkish Cypriot leader, Rauf Denktash, reacted to the vote by calling for an end to the longstanding economic embargo on his self-declared republic and for its international recognition. Only Turkey now recognizes his government. 
 ''For more than 40 years, Turkish Cypriots have been subjected to physical and economic deprivation and debilitating uncertainty,'' he said. ''It is time to put an end to this.'' 
 In an interview earlier in the day, Mr. Denktash had predicted that his deeply held suspicions about Greek Cypriot intentions would be confirmed by a no vote in the south. ''They won't need a settlement as long as the world treats them as the government of the whole island,'' he said, calling the Annan plan a prescription for Greek dominance over the Turkish minority.
 Turkey, the only trading partner for the Turkish Cypriots, also has some 35,000 troops stationed in northern Cyprus. Under the United Nations plan, the number would have gradually dropped to 600, the size of the Turkish garrison on Cyprus at the time of its 1960 independence from Britain. Greek Cypriots critical of the peace plan said they doubted whether the troops would leave as required. Turkish Cypriot opponents, citing violence against them in the 1950's and early 1960's, questioned whether they could ever feel safe without the Turkish soldiers.
 ''Which institution would protect me and make sure I still sleep in comfort?'' said Gizem Bahri, a law school student, after casting a vote in northern Nicosia against the plan.
 But most Turkish Cypriots said they saw the Annan plan as a way to end their isolation. ''I want to travel freely, I want my mail to come to me directly, without going through Turkey,'' said Mehmet Cemal, 34. ''I want to show the world to my children, open their lives to the outer world.'' 
 Mr. Denktash, who is 80, said he would continue to hold out for separation. ''I see Palestine, I see Kosovo and I say, 'not again,' '' he said. ''You can't create one nation out of two. You can allow them to begin living together by treating them as equals, allowing trust to grow between them and allowing them to create an atmosphere where they won't forget, but they won't emphasize, that they are two peoples on the same land.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Turkish Cypriot woman voted yesterday in the referendum on the reunification plan for Cyprus. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)Maps of Cyprus highlight Nicosia: A reunification plan for Cyprus keeps Nicosia as the capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); REFERENDUMS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CYPRUS (99%); EUROPE (95%); TURKEY (94%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



509 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: Defending Connecticut's Defense Industry

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
JOHN A. WOROBEY Jr. was a member of the Marine Draftsmen's Association at Electric Boat in Groton in the early 1990's when the Navy canceled the Seawolf submarine program and nearly put the shipyard out of business. The company, its unions and vendors, elected officials and others rallied to partly restore the program, enough to keep it going until production started on the Virginia class of submarine in 1998.
 But Electric Boat has shrunk from about 25,000 employees at the height of the cold war to about 9,000 today, and every year there are some members of Congress who question the need for submarines. So it is with some trepidation and sense of deja vu that Mr. Worobey has recently watched the Army's cancellation of the Comanche helicopter program at Sikorsky in Stratford.
 ''People noticed it around here, I can guarantee you that,'' Mr. Worobey said. ''I don't know if people are scared, but are they wondering, 'Are we next?' That thought entered my mind, I have to say.'' 
 Pratt & Whitney Aircraft's 9,000 employees in Connecticut make engines for the Air Force F-22 Raptor fighter jet, a $72 billion program, and for the planned F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, a $200 billion program.
 But both programs have critics in Congress. The Department of Defense has established a panel of outside aviation experts to review the F-35 program, which has been struggling to meet schedule, cost and requirement goals, and a report by the federal General Accounting Office in February found that the F-22 program will most likely cost more than expected.
 Mark P. Sullivan, a spokesman for Pratt & Whitney, said the company was confident that both programs are safe because the Air Force is strongly behind the F-22 and the Pentagon has drawn several other countries into the F-35 program.
 ''Programs do have ups and downs, in terms of numbers of aircraft, which is not something we can control,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''These programs should be scrutinized. They are expensive, and they deserve a careful look. But we feel very positive about their long-term outlook.'' 
 ''We watch the political developments with interest, we provide as much data as we can to Congress and the military, and we try to keep our engines performing to the highest standards, and the rest will take care of itself,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
 Defense has always been a key contributor to the Connecticut economy, -- not just through dominant employers like Electric Boat, Sikorsky and Pratt & Whitney, but also through medium-sized companies like Northrop Grumman Norden Systems, which makes radar for surveillance planes in Norwalk. There is also a host of smaller suppliers, like Transatlantic Lines in Greenwich, which provides cargo transport services for the Army, and Barnes Group in Windsor, which makes turbine parts for the Pentagon.
 Defense has waned in influence since the end of the cold war in 1988, when military-related employment accounted for 96,200 jobs in the state. By the end of the third quarter of 2003, the most recent numbers available, there were 48,200 people employed in such jobs, the Defense Department estimated.
 Still, the field remains important to Connecticut. 
 The Defense Department spent $6.2 billion in Connecticut in 2002, the most recent statistics available, which works out to more than $1,800 for every person in the state. That is more than twice the national average and compares to $911 per capita in Massachusetts, $856 in Rhode Island and $328 in New York.
 But the state's position as a leader in attracting military contracts has also put it under the microscope as the Pentagon seeks to transform its fighting forces for the 21st century.
 ''The Connecticut defense industry is more on the cutting edge, providing systems that are needed and wanted more than you see in most other states,'' said Fred M. Downey, an aide to Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Democrat. ''But the flip side of that is the 'Willie Sutton syndrome' -- when people asked him why he robbed banks, Willie Sutton said, 'Because that's where the money is.' When you want to cut a defense budget, you look to Connecticut because that's where the money is.''
 Dr. Loren B. Thompson, a defense analyst and chief operating officer of the Lexington Institute, a Washington research organization, agreed, ''Big ticket items will always be under scrutiny, and particularly today as future military requirements are in flux,'' he said.
 But officials acknowledge that after the Army's cancellation of the $11 billion Crusader artillery system in 2002, and now of the Comanche, there is increased anxiety about protecting the other big Connecticut programs.
 ''We face this fight on an annual basis,'' said United States Representative John Larson, a Democrat. Connecticut, he said, has been a leader in military technology since Samuel Colt patented his first revolver in 1835 and began producing it in Hartford, and since Francis Pratt and Amos Whitney established their machine shop in 1860. And military workers tend to be among the highest paid in industry, he said, which has contributed to the state's high standard of living.
 There are military programs under scrutiny elsewhere as well, like the V-22 Osprey program produced by Bell Helicopter in Fort Worth, Tex., and Boeing in Philadelphia, and the next-generation aircraft carrier being designed by Northrop Grumman's Newport News Shipbuilding in Virginia. But the concentration of defense work in Connecticut makes it unique, officials said.
 ''You just can't find this critical mass of skilled employees anywhere else, and once it's gone you can't replace it, so from a national security standpoint I think it's ultimately to Connecticut's advantage, but it does mean we have to be eternally vigilant,'' Mr. Larson said.
 United States Representative Rob Simmons, a Republican, said that although he didn't want to believe it, partisan politics might be affecting national security decisions in this case. 
 ''What's hurting us is, politically, we're a small state, and we don't have the clout of a Texas or California or Florida, which can apply pressure and skew the political process,'' Mr. Simmons said. ''We have to rely on the quality of our people and our products.''
 One of the most significant blows to the military economy in Connecticut came in February when the Army announced that it would cancel the $39 billion program to produce a stealthy helicopter, the Comanche, after spending as much as $9 billion on development. Originally, more than 1,200 of the helicopters were going to be built, and about 600 of Sikorsky's 3,600 employees were already working on them.
 ''We don't have any figures yet on what this is going to mean to the company in terms of revenue,'' said Ed Steadham, a Sikorsky spokesman. Although in canceling the Comanche, the Army said it would like to order more Black Hawk helicopters from Sikorsky, ''we're a long way from knowing when anything like that would happen or how many aircraft we're talking about,'' he said. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat, and Mr. Lieberman, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said they would seek to overturn the Comanche decision, but acknowledged that it would be difficult.
 ''Clearly, you've got some current account problems, and we have to deal with them,'' Mr. Dodd said. ''We probably would have had to cut the number of helicopters that were built. But the idea of eliminating the program and giving up a helicopter for the 21st century doesn't make sense.''
 In addition, he said, he is suspicious that the administration is waiting until after the elections to decide on a new presidential helicopter fleet. Sikorsky is competing against a team that has pitched an aircraft made by a British-Italian joint venture, which Senator Dodd said smacked of payback for those countries' support of the war in Iraq.
 ''I understand we need to stand by the countries that stood by us,'' he said, ''but not at the expense of thousands of American jobs.'' 
 Mr. Lieberman said the Army had earlier made a strong case for producing the Comanche. Now, he added, the task of saving it has been made tougher by Sikorsky's refusal to join the fray.
 ''Sikorsky has effectively declared itself a noncombatant here -- they've accepted the decision,'' Mr. Lieberman said. ''We feel we have a responsibility to fight this on two grounds, national security and jobs, and we're going to do it even if Sikorsky is not with us.'' Mr. Steadham of Sikorsky did not return repeated telephone calls for comment on Mr. Lieberman's statement.
 Although Mr. Lieberman expressed confidence in the security of the Electric Boat and Pratt & Whitney programs, he said that even in those cases the congressional delegation needed to be diligent.
 Dr. Thompson of the Lexington Institute said that despite criticism of the F-22 and F-35, the armed forces needed them to replace aging aircraft based on 1960's designs.
 ''The real question isn't going to be, 'Will they be produced?' but rather, 'How many will be produced?''' Dr. Thompson said. 
 Bruce DeMars, a retired admiral who headed the office of Naval Reactors before leaving the service in 1996, said most of the criticism of nuclear submarines comes from people who don't know what they do.
 ''If you don't take the time to think about them and understand them, they're viewed as a big-ticket item of limited applicability,'' Admiral DeMars said. But he noted that the Bush administration and Congress had approved a billion-dollar program to convert large ballistic missile submarines to fire conventional missiles and carry large complements of Special Forces. Submarines, he said, are increasingly in demand for their stealth, endurance, mobility and firepower.
 In the early 1990's, when the Seawolf submarine program was sharply curtailed, the Navy almost abandoned nuclear submarine construction, Admiral DeMars said. Now, he said, there is a growing understanding that if the country ever got out of the business, it would be very difficult to restart it . As evidence he pointed to Britain, which after a hiatus in submarine production has had to hire Electric Boat to fix its troubled Astute-class program.
 ''That is a major lesson in this situation -- you can forget how to do this,'' Admiral DeMars said. ''I don't sense that foolishness has any support now, but you always have to be prepared. It's an issue that we need to continue to work, and we shouldn't take for granted that everyone is going to understand the value of a submarine.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John A. Worobey Jr., an Electric Boat Company employee, is wary of the Army's cancellation of Sikorsky's Comanche helicopter program. (Photo by M.J. Fiedler for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The Army's cancellation of the Comanche helicopter program at Sikorsky in Stratford has those in the state's defense industry concerned. A Comanche is shown above. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, left, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said he would seek to overturn the Comanche decision. (Photo by Sikorsky Aircraft)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (87%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (76%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); DRAFTING (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); SHIPBUILDING (72%); COLD WAR (70%); HELICOPTERS (68%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PRATT & WHITNEY (55%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%); US AIR FORCE (55%)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (50%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



510 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33; FOLLOWING UP

LENGTH: 582 words

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried

 BODY:

Former M.T.A. Chief Is Multi-Tasking at 70
 ''Are you kidding?'' Richard Ravitch said last week when asked whether he was thinking of retiring.
 Actually, it was more like, ''Are you kidding!!''
 Well, it seemed like a reasonable question to ask him. After all, Mr. Ravitch is 70, and it has been nearly a decade since he was last in a bright spotlight. That was when he was Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's top choice for New York City schools chancellor but took himself out of the running.
 For 25 years before that, Mr. Ravitch was often prominent in the news. A wealthy housing developer, he led a successful effort in the 1970's to rescue the state's Urban Development Corporation, which had become insolvent after building or starting more than $1 billion worth of housing. 
 In the 80's, as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, he began rebuilding the city's subway system, fighting successfully for billions in federal and state aid for new cars and for track and station renovations to reverse years of neglect that had left the system riddled with breakdowns and graffiti. 
 He ran unsuccessfully in the Democratic primary for mayor in 1989, and in the 90's was chief labor executive for the Major League Baseball owners, a rocky stint in which he and the players could not reach a new collective bargaining agreement, resulting in a strike that cut short the 1994 season and delayed the start of the '95 season.
 These days, Mr. Ravitch said last week, ''I'm enjoying a reduced pace from my earlier years.'' 
 Reduced it may be, but. 
 He is a partner in a small law and investment firm in which ''we've done a lot of entrepreneurial things,'' he said. ''I'm still running Waterside,'' he added, referring to an apartment complex he developed in the 1970's in which four towers soar from a platform over the East River from 25th to 30th Street.
 He was a leader of a congressionally created commission that in 2002 recommended changes in government housing programs, though he maintained last week that ''the level of interest in housing in Washington is low.'' And ''I still chair a bunch of pension trusts for the A.F.L-C.I.O.,'' he said. Recently, as a mediator, he helped resolve a long dispute between the city and the operators of a wholesale produce market in the Bronx.
 ''I have a lot of energy and time,'' Mr. Ravitch said, ''and I want to do things that are useful and interesting.''

With Crime Down, Empty-Cell Syndrome
 Contrasting tales of two Brooklyn jails:
 As crime has fallen sharply in the last decade, New York City has closed four jails in three boroughs, two of them in Brooklyn. Civic leaders and residents around those two have pressed for redevelopment of their sites for housing or commerce.
 Now that is happening at one, the Brooklyn Correctional Facility, above, at 136 Flushing Avenue in Fort Greene. Carol Abrams, a spokeswoman for the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said housing is being planned to replace the 1,350-bed jail, once a Navy brig.
 But the 800-bed Brooklyn House of Detention, at 275 Atlantic Avenue near Downtown Brooklyn, will remain in the jail inventory, as will the jails closed in the Bronx and Queens, said Thomas Antenen, a Correction Department spokesman. 
 True, there were 13,800 city inmates last week and a 14,800 capacity in the 11 open jails, most on Rikers Island, he said. But temporary buildings with several thousand beds on the island are to be razed, he said. And crime, he said, could rise again.


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITIES (90%); CRIME RATES (86%); MAYORS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (70%); BASEBALL (65%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (65%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (62%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



511 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Candidate for I.M.F. Director Seeks African Support

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
Rodrigo Rato, the former finance minister of Spain and the leading candidate to become the new managing director of the International Monetary Fund, arrived here on Saturday to ask for support from African countries and sew up his appointment.
 Although the selection of a new leader is not on the official agenda of the annual spring meeting of the I.M.F., most dignitaries attending the sessions here consider it the most urgent issue. The fund has been leaderless since Horst Kohler abruptly resigned last month to run for president of Germany in elections next month, a situation that Anne Krueger, the acting managing director, said had created ''somewhat unusual circumstances'' for the meetings. 
 Mr. Rato, the European candidate for the post, has the support of the United States and earlier won the endorsement of Latin American countries who are the largest I.M.F. borrowers and who are anxious to have a leader who understands their plight.
 At the meetings here, Mr. Rato also won support from a group developing nations. Conrad Enill, the finance minister of Trinidad and Tobago and a spokesman for the group, said at a news conference that Mr. Rato ''is someone with the kind of experience that the developing countries have been asking for, a practicing minister of finance, someone who is sympathetic to the challenges being faced by the developing world.''
 However, he and other officials complained that the process for choosing Mr. Rato was too elitist, with the Europeans allowed to select the primary candidate who is then approved without an open debate. Many countries believe that the nomination process should be transparent and open to all nationalities.
 By tradition, the United States selects the head of the World Bank and the Europeans chose the head of the I.M.F. The fund's executive board, which makes the final appointment, will meet on Tuesday to discuss filling the post.
 With the global economic outlook bright -- and growth rates estimated at 4.6 percent this year and 4.4 percent in 2005 -- the assembled finance ministers and heads of central bankers faced no immediate global financial crises.
 Instead, the I.M.F.'s board of governors, in a communique, urged nations to take advantage of the good times and take the painful steps necessary to put their own financial houses in order.
 For the United States, that means tackling its rising budget deficit and huge trade imbalance, which have led to foreign debts of such record-breaking proportions that, the I.M.F. has warned, they could threaten the financial stability of the global economy.
 The fund's board said it was time for Europe to make structural adjustments to its labor and pension systems and invigorate its sluggish economies. The board said Japan should continue its steady recovery and bring an end to deflation.
 The rosy economic predictions could come undone, however, if the war in Iraq fails to come to a peaceful conclusion or if there are more large-scale terrorists attacks that cripple the global markets.
 Behind the scenes, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow was promoting countries to show support for Iraq to coincide with the June 30 handover of sovereignty.
 Ms. Krueger said at the news conference that with the handover, the I.M.F. could consider a new post-conflict program when the appropriate institutions were in place. 
 More than 1,000 protesters marched here to complain that despite their oratory, the I.M.F. and the World Bank leaders often hindered development for the poor. The protesters blew whistles, played drums and shouted slogans demanding that all the debt of impoverished countries be forgiven.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rodrigo Rato, a former Spanish finance minister, hopes to direct the International Monetary Fund. (Photo by EFE, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); DEFLATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); IRAQ WAR (61%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (92%); AFRICA (92%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



512 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: A Grown-Up Grand Cherokee

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

 BODY:
IN the early 1990's, when large numbers of Americans switched from sedans and minivans to sport utility vehicles, the Jeep Grand Cherokee -- along with the Ford Explorer -- became a fixture in the nation's driveways and parking lots.
 For 2005, the Grand Cherokee, which was introduced 12 years ago, is getting its first makeover since 1999, the year when its sales peaked as competition intensified. The new version, unveiled at the recent New York auto show, goes on sale this fall. 
 It is slightly larger, with new engines and new technologies. What it doesn't have is the third-row seat that many other midsize S.U.V.'s, like the latest Explorer, have added.
 The Grand Cherokee continues to wear Jeep's traditional seven-slot grille and trapezoid-shape wheel openings, but its body lines are crisper and its back end is more angular. 
 The 2005 model is longer and wider for improved stability and ride, but is shorter than competitors with three rows of seats. The redesign also leaves room in Jeep's product line for a larger utility vehicle, which is believed to be in development. 
 The new base engine is more powerful, a 3.7-liter single-cam V-6 that replaces a 4-liter in-line 6. An optional 4.7-liter V-8 is carried over. Top-line versions get the 5.7-liter Hemi V-8 used in the new Chrysler 300C; this engine deactivates some cylinders at cruising speed to improve fuel economy. All the engines are paired with five-speed automatic transmissions. 
 Engineers wanted to maintain the Grand Cherokee's off-road prowess -- they made some changes in the three available four-wheel-drive systems -- while greatly improving on-road ride and handling. To that end, the new model has carlike rack-and-pinion steering and new front and rear suspensions -- a sophisticated independent suspension in the front and a five-link setup in the rear.
 MICHELLE KREBS


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



513 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: In Health and Social Services, A More Violent Workplace

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
Phyllis Johansen, a nurse in the psychiatric wing at Stony Brook University Hospital, was assaulted on July 6 by a patient trying to break out of the locked ward. The patient, high on drugs, made his way to the nurses' station and attacked her around 4 a.m., near the end of her shift, she said.
 ''He told me three times he was going to kill me,'' Ms. Johansen, 50, said. ''He threw a table into my stomach and body-slammed me several times into the wall.'' The patient was subdued by a security guard but died soon after of a drug overdose, she said. 
 As a result of the beating, Ms. Johansen, a nurse for 30 years, suffered a broken wrist and a back injury, and she has been out of work since then. 
 She plans to return in May -- she loves her job, she said -- but she is concerned with what she says is an escalation of workplace violence in the last three years. ''We're constantly getting shoved, verbally attacked,'' she said. ''It seems to be getting worse.''
 Incidents of workplace violence, from verbal abuse to assault, appear to be climbing in health care and social services, at a time when workplace homicides in those industries have been declining for about a decade, labor experts say.
 ''Clearly, workplace violence in these areas is beginning to come back up,'' said Lynn Jenkins, a branch chief in the division of safety research at the National Institute for Occupational Health and Safety, a federal agency that researches ways to prevent work-related injury and illness. 
 Ms. Jenkins said that the reporting of nonfatal workplace crimes was fragmented, and workers in fields like social services or mental health care might accept acts of violence as part of their jobs. But anecdotal evidence gathered by the institute points to an increase, she said.
 ''Basically, you have fewer workers delivering fewer services to more people,'' Ms. Jenkins said. ''It's a formula for disaster.''
 According to the most recent numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, cases of workplace violence in health care and social services in New York State dipped from 1998 to 1999, but increased from 2000 to 2001, when the economic downturn hit.
 In health care, the bureau said, cases of workplace violence rose to 16.5 per 10,000 full-time workers in 2001 from 13.7 per 10,000 in 2000. 
 Cases of violence in social services increased to 35.4 per 10,000 employees in 2001 from 25.6 per 10,000 in 2000.
 A preliminary report on workplace violence against nurses by the New York State Nursing Association, released in early February, found that 46.9 percent of the nurses who responded to the survey had experienced verbal insults or threats in the workplace; 20.7 percent had been physically assaulted; 9.9 percent had experienced inappropriate touching; and 4 percent had been physically assaulted with a weapon. About 26 percent lost time from work because of a violent incident. 
 Workplace violence ranges from verbal attacks to homicides, said Susan McQuade, a health and safety specialist for the New York Committee for Occupational Safety and Health. ''Being verbally abused can bring on stress for a worker,'' she said, ''and it is sometimes a precursor for some physical action.''
 Government agencies and employers are beginning to study ways to prevent workplace violence. Earlier this year, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration released a report titled ''Guidelines for Preventing Workplace Violence for Health Care and Social Service Workers.'' It outlined a host of risk factors opening the door to more violence in the health care system: the use of hospitals by police and the criminal justice system for the care of disturbed and violent individuals; the lack of staff training to recognize and manage violent behavior; and a growing number of drug and alcohol abusers in the system.
 New York City's Administration for Children's Services, which has about 7,000 social services employees who work to ensure the safety of the city's children, began a pilot project last year that teaches supervisors how to help workers handle potentially violent situations that could arise in their day-to-day jobs, a spokeswoman, MacLean Guthrie, said. 
 And at Stony Brook, where Ms. Johansen was assaulted, a panel of hospital administrators and union officials has been created to examine workplace violence, a spokesman for the hospital, Patrick Calabria, said. This year, the hospital plans to buy alarms that workers can wear so they can quickly alert security and other employees to any problems. 
 Last year, a group of unions proposed standards for diminishing workplace violence for public employees to the New York State Department of Labor's Hazard Abatement Board, which makes recommendations on health and safety standards. 
 The proposed standards include definitions of violence and steps employers should take to create a safe workplace, ranging from drafting antiviolence policies to employee training. The board held public information sessions on the proposed standards and is reviewing the information it gathered, according to a spokeswoman for the Labor Department, Christine Burling.
 Labor advocates say it is important for workers to recognize that workplace violence can take many forms. 
 ''If someone is yelled at, spat at or pushed around, all this can have long-term effects on an individual. It leads to stress, and some people may end up unable to work,'' said Susan A. Randolph, president of the American Association of Occupational Health Nurses. 
 There is often a pattern to escalating workplace violence, said Jim Crumbley, a senior security consultant at Amsec International, a security firm that works with corporations.
 He said workers should be aware of signs that someone is getting anxious and try to offer support. When a patient or co-worker is getting overly defensive or having verbal outbursts, it is best to be direct with the person and explain that their behavior is disruptive, he said.
 ''Tell them, 'I understand you are upset, but your outburst is creating problems with other patients. Why don't you take a few minutes and gather your thoughts, and then I'll come back and talk to you about this.''' 
 If none of these measures defuse the situation, he said, workers should maintain a safe distance from the disruptive person, keep an eye on a possible exit route from the room and tell co-workers and the security staff. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Phyllis Johansen, a nurse in the psychiatric wing at Stony Brook University Hospital, says she was attacked last year by a patient, who broke her wrist and injured her back. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); BONE FRACTURES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HOMICIDE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (73%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); EVIDENCE (63%); STATISTICS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



514 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4072 words

HEADLINE: The (Not Easy) Building of (Not Exactly) Lincoln Center for (Not) Manhattan

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, is the author of ''The Devil's Playground: A Century of Pleasure and Profit in Times Square.''

 BODY:
Several years ago, Harvey Lichtenstein, the former president and presiding genius of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, visited the board of an important New York arts institution with the hope of persuading the group to consider moving to the ''cultural district'' he was, and is, developing in the rapidly gentrifying neighborhood around BAM. Lichtenstein said, ''You know, Paris has the Left Bank, and London has the South Bank, and here you've got Brooklyn.'' The outer borough was the Left Bank-in-waiting. Then some wiseacre on the board cracked, ''Yeah, well, in Paris when you go to the Left Bank, they're still Parisians.'' Everyone guffawed; Lichtenstein fumed. 
 Harvey Lichtenstein has heard enough Brooklyn jokes for a lifetime. In the early years of his tenure at BAM, in the late 60's and early 70's, a martial-arts school occupied a studio above a performance space, and in the midst of, say, ''Candide,'' the audience might be jolted out of its trance by a sudden ''Aieee-yah!'' But Lichtenstein persisted in his lonely crusade, and after 15 or 20 years, all but the most hopelessly Manhattan-centric of playgoers and balletomanes had come to recognize that New York's Left Bank was coming to life in the avant-garde hatchery of BAM. By the time he retired in 1999, Lichtenstein had become a monstre sacre -- a father figure of the new art and one of the great cultural impresarios of Joseph Papp's generation. John Rockwell of The New York Times described him flatly as ''the most innovative and influential performing arts administrator New York has known.''
 Nowadays, Lichtenstein operates out of a tiny office that smells strongly of the fried-fish place downstairs. From this dim (and temporary) bandbox, Lichtenstein and Jeanne Lutfy, his chief aide and sometime envoy to the real world, direct the fortunes of the BAM Local Development Corporation, a $630 million project that aspires to create a new neighborhood of theaters, museums, libraries, dance studios, art galleries and housing, all designed by some of the world's greatest architects -- a not-Lincoln Center for this not-Manhattan. Enrique Norten, the Mexican architect, will be building a new branch of the Brooklyn Public Library in an empty lot across the street from BAM, and last month, after long negotiation, the classically-oriented Theater for a New Audience agreed to build a 299-seat theater, to be designed by Frank Gehry and Hugh Hardy, in the space next to the library. Lichtenstein, who at 75 is possibly New York's oldest young person, is creating a new neighborhood for the children of those starched-out Manhattan arts snobs -- and a lot of those kids, as Lichtenstein observes, already live in Brooklyn.
Harvey Lichtenstein has been described, in the past, as something of a barbarian, but age has scoured his face, leaving him with a great, square head reminiscent of Rodin's bust of Clemenceau. He has the pink cheeks of age, the shooting gray eyebrows of discernment and the battered beak of an old fighter. He is merry, as befits the old and wise. But not always: sometimes, as when he is recalling battles of yesteryear, or today, he pulls his lips back and grits his teeth, and you can see the inner mule. He still sounds mad that the critic Arlene Croce called the dancer Pina Bausch ''Euro-trash,'' which seems to have happened more than a decade ago.
 Thirty years ago, when BAM was still a fledgling operation, Lichtenstein spent much of his energy trying to persuade artists that Brooklyn was something more than a redoubt of Ralph Kramden-style American philistinism. Peter Brook, the English director and an early convert, told me: ''When I first went there, all my theater friends said: 'We never go to Brooklyn. Something that happens in Brooklyn doesn't happen.''' Brooklyn was Nowheresville -- a sort of Manhattan banlieue. By virtue of attracting people like Brook to BAM, Lichtenstein did a great deal to turn Brooklyn into Somewhere. But it was also true, as Lichtenstein concedes, that ''BAM was sort of an exception in the cultural area.'' The commercial strip of Flatbush and Fulton Avenues, which bordered BAM, was pure unreconstructed Brooklyn -- fast-food joints, storefront churches, secondhand-furniture shops, shuttered spaces. BAM could never serve as the hub of a community -- as, in its own way, Lincoln Center does -- unless the community changed. And this, Lichtenstein decided, would be his next job.
 Lichtenstein envisioned something that didn't really exist anywhere: a bohemian, or bourgeois bohemian, paradise where artists lived and worked and mixed with neighborhood folk. It wouldn't be Lincoln Center, with art up on a plinth, and it wouldn't be SoHo, where art has been reduced to shopping bait. It would be a culture community. As Jeanne Lutfy, the L.D.C.'s president and a former city economic development official, says: ''We didn't want this to become over time like SoHo, where the arts organizations would eventually be priced out of the area. If it's a cultural district, we want it to be that way for years to come.'' Rather than build space and rent it to arts groups, the organization would find the right tenants and help them build their own institutions, which they would own. 
 Lichtenstein turned to the progressive architectural firm Diller Scofidio + Renfro to draw up a master plan. The goal of the plan, Charles Renfro, the lead architect, says, was ''to overcome BAM's physical isolation,'' to use design to weave the rarefied, and largely white, world of BAM into the commercial and residential world of Fort Greene. The building scale would be low, the ''tawdry outer-boroughness'' of the commercial strip would be respected, if not altogether preserved, and the ''public space'' of the cultural institutions would flow into the ''private space'' of the housing, which would be provided at subsidized rates to artists and would ensure the 24-hour character of the neighborhood. Renfro describes the plan as ''utopian''; Lichtenstein, a utopian himself, was delighted with it.
 The project would never fly without public financing, but after years at BAM, Lichtenstein was a genius at scrounging for municipal dollars. And the timing was right. New York was competing fiercely with New Jersey to accommodate companies that found Manhattan unaffordable, a battle that intensified after 9/11, when businesses sought to disperse employees. Brooklyn had already become a key player in this battle by virtue of the downtown office development known as MetroTech. And the cultural-district plan offered something MetroTech needed and Jersey City didn't have: a neighborhood. In 2001, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, though scarcely a friend of advanced culture, agreed to give the BAM L.D.C. a $50 million matching grant over four to five years.
 Suddenly, the BAM L.D.C. was leading a charmed life. And then, suddenly, it wasn't. The terrorist attacks diverted philanthropic dollars away from cultural organizations, which suddenly had to think much harder about the $20 million or $30 million capital campaign they would need to build a new home. And then there was that old Manhattan-centric thing. Lichtenstein was braced for that obstacle, of course; what he hadn't expected was local ingratitude. In the fall of 2001, Lichtenstein, Lutfy and others began discussing their plans in a series of public meetings in Fort Greene, an elegant brownstone neighborhood that for the previous generation had been largely black and middle class but had recently begun to attract a younger and more diverse population. Fort Greene had, in fact, become the perfect setting for a cultural district -- multiethnic, historically rooted, culturally active and full of weird incongruities, the coffee bar abutting the West Indian jerk joint. And in fact the homeowners and professionals I spoke to were delighted with Lichtenstein's plans.
 But others viewed BAM as an outpost of an alien culture and the planned community as the last straw of gentrification. What would become of the Afrocentric shops along Flatbush, the black street life and even the local cultural institutions? Gentrification would mean displacement -- it always does. The black would give way to the not-black, the local to the global. When I talked to Abeni Crooms, a local community organizer, she asked me why Lichtenstein would bring in the Mark Morris Dance Group when Fort Greene already had 651 Arts, a local organization -- and a rather shaky one financially -- that presents dance performances. I said that maybe Lichtenstein thought an international figure like Mark Morris was more important than 651 Arts. Crooms was genuinely startled. ''I can't even imagine thinking like that,'' she murmured.
 Lichtenstein was caught up in a drama familiar to every developer in New York -- the passion play of community outrage. This was not the kind of issue usually hashed out in the avant-garde productions at BAM. In October 2002, the Concerned Citizens Coalition, a body led by local politicians, clergy members and arts organizations, held a public meeting at the Brooklyn Music School, a local arts institution that hadn't been included in the L.D.C.'s plan. Lichtenstein was invited to attend but not to speak. Four hundred people jammed the room, many of them brought in by local politicians and ministers from the vast projects that line the northern edge of the area; it is safe to say that very few of them had attended Peter Brook's ''Mahabharata.'' A survey was read out supposedly showing that the majority of residents opposed the plans. Critical comments were projected on a large screen: one read, ''Whenever BAM has done anything, it has always been with the unstated goal of bringing as many affluent white people as possible into the area.'' Lichtenstein, who had spent a lifetime standing up for the difficult against the conventional and the multicultural against the monocultural, was shocked to find himself denounced as an arch honky. ''It was a pretty hostile meeting,'' he says. ''We found out that gentrification is a big issue here. They said it was all our fault, which is silly. But there's the fact that we contribute to it, and so on. So how do we deal with that?''
 In the aftermath of the October meeting, relations with the citizens' coalition grew so acrimonious that both sides agreed to work with a mediator from the Ford Foundation. By last summer, when I first started talking to Lichtenstein, the L.D.C. had agreed to help 651 Arts and the Brooklyn Music School and to provide much of the planned new housing for local and low-income people; tempers had grown cooler, but Lichtenstein was still balking at a demand from the minister who heads the citizens' coalition that the L.D.C. and his organization form a ''partnership.'' Lichtenstein had not become the most important impresario in New York by forging partnerships: he had done it by insisting on his own judgment even in the face of common sense. The whole subject brought out his spleen. ''It's our concept,'' Lichtenstein said. ''It's our idea. We got the money. We can't share control; that's crazy. Then we don't have a project.''
Harvey Lichtenstein is a man of unusual tastes: he is so entirely at home in the gestural and the nonrepresentational that he tends to find the figurative banal. When we first spoke, each of us had just seen a staging of Leos Janacek's opera ''Fate'' at Bard College, a rather fuzzily constructed work set in a spa at the turn of the century. I told Lichtenstein that I hadn't known what to make of Frank Gehry's set, which consisted entirely of two suspended monoliths. ''I thought the sets were amazing!'' he cried in his rasp-file voice. ''You don't need a spa, you don't need a ballroom, you don't need all that.'' And the opera -- he loved it. And the Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, which Gehry designed, was a masterpiece. ''I can't tell you how exhilarated I was,'' Lichtenstein said. He is exhilarated a lot: as the composer Steve Reich says, ''Harvey loves new work, and the more far-out it is, the more he loves it.''
 Lichtenstein explains his aesthetic orientation by saying, ''I was brought up with Franz Kline and Rothko and de Kooning and Motherwell and all those people.'' Lichtenstein's father was a music-loving, though unschooled, Polish immigrant, and Lichtenstein was, in fact, weaned on Beethoven and Brahms, but a cousin married Jack Tworkov, a well-regarded Abstract Expressionist painter whose family introduced young Harvey to the new art. Lichtenstein began to hang around the galleries while he was still in high school. And when a girlfriend took him to see the Martha Graham Dance Company, Lichtenstein experienced one of his revelations: soon he was taking dance classes and began moving in a world where dance intersected with the other arts. After college, in the early 1950's, the young man spent a summer at Black Mountain College in North Carolina, a famous seedbed of postwar modernism. There Lichtenstein got to know Kline, who was himself married to a dancer, as well as Robert Rauschenberg, the poet Charles Olson and Merce Cunningham, who had just started up his dance company. It was a very heady moment.
 In the 50's, Lichtenstein danced professionally with several Martha Graham-inspired companies, filling out a modest income with odd jobs. In the early 60's, he took a job in the development department at Brandeis University, then went to work managing the subscription programs at the New York City Ballet and the New York City Opera. In 1967, the board of the Brooklyn Academy of Music asked him to take over as director. At the time, Lichtenstein recalled, the academy -- which he later renamed, in classic Pop style, BAM -- offered five performances a year by the Boston Symphony orchestra, recitals, lectures on current events and folk dancing. ''It was mostly older, older, older audiences,'' says Lichtenstein, who was then 37. A mercy killing seemed in order.
 Instead, Lichtenstein got the board to agree to the kind of decision that looks ingenious only in retrospect: he would showcase the art he loved, not the art his audience wanted to see. He brought Merce Cunningham and Robert Wilson and Steve Reich, figures then known only to the illuminati, to Brooklyn. They played in front of half-empty, or three-quarters-empty, houses. When I asked Lichtenstein why he didn't switch to more popular fare, he said: ''I knew these were important artists. I knew Merce Cunningham was a great artist. I knew it. And I wouldn't stop.'' The leading figures of that generation are grateful to this day for the opportunity Lichtenstein gave them when their reputations were still forming. ''The thing that was important for Bob and myself,'' Philip Glass told me, referring to Robert Wilson, ''was that we were young artists who were ready to work in big spaces, but there were no big spaces.'' Lichtenstein offered not a SoHo loft, but a 2,100-seat house with a splendid proscenium and all the trappings of a forgotten age of theatrical glory. (BAM was built in 1908.)
 BAM specialized in what the performance artist Laurie Anderson calls ''the sleeping-bag show,'' where you could bunk in the balcony while a boundary-less, time-bending spectacle unfolded according to its own pace. Her own debut performance there, ''United States 1-4,'' in 1983, took place over two evenings and eight hours. Genre itself was open to question. In many of BAM's productions, language was reduced to a sort of incantatory role in the service of tableau or theatrical spectacle. Peter Brook's famous six-hour version of ''The Mahabharata,'' performed in 1987, down the street from BAM, in the old Majestic Theater, which Brook and Lichtenstein had meticulously renovated to a state of half-finished, grimy grandeur, appeared to be enacted in Esperanto. (Actually, it was in English, translated from the French.) But the viewer was unlikely to forget the great wooden wheels that the charioteers rolled across the stage to represent their vehicles, or the schematic, highly choreographed battle scenes.
 Indeed, Brook compares Lichtenstein with Diaghilev, another dancer who created a multimedia, synesthetic experience by working with painters, musicians and poets. But what also strikes Brook, as it does so many others who have worked at BAM, is Lichtenstein's combination of artistic conviction and entrepreneurial brio. Lichtenstein saw Brook's famous Broadway production of ''A Midsummer's Night Dream'' on Broadway in 1969, experienced one of his aesthetic epiphanies and proposed that Brook move it to a completely unknown theater in a place called Brooklyn. Brook would attract, he said, ''a different public,'' an idea that delighted the populist director. They put cushions in the orchestra pit and charged a few dollars. More than a decade later, Lichtenstein climbed in the window of the abandoned Majestic Theater and called Brook in a frenzy of excitement to say that he had discovered the perfect setting for ''The Mahabharata'' -- as, it turned out, he had. Brook describes Lichtenstein as ''this rare combination of an artist, a ballet dancer who has a feeling for all the arts and this extraordinary administrator, with his managerial flair, and beyond all this the capacity to persuade people.''
 Actually, Lichtenstein has a few limitations as an administrator. His single-minded convictions often provoke him to act first and worry about the consequences later. In several cases, the consequences have come very close to bankruptcy: there was his ill-fated repertory company in the early 80's; his breakneck, damn-the-torpedoes renovation of the Majestic Theater; and his apparently suicidal 1992 decision to stage Ariane Mnouchkine's four-part production, ''Les Atrides,'' a retelling of the Oresteian tragedy. Karen Brooks Hopkins, his executive vice president (and now his successor at BAM), describes her former role as Lichtenstein's ''enabler.'' ''He's a high-risk player,'' she says, ''and he likes to roll the dice.''
 But in the end, Lichtenstein's instincts, which is to say both his very personal taste and his gift for showmanship, always carried the day. His most inspired gamble came in 1983, when he inaugurated the Next Wave Festival to showcase the work of a new generation of performers, including Laurie Anderson, Mark Morris, Lucinda Childs, Trisha Brown, Pina Bausch, Bill T. Jones and Arnie Zane and the Flying Karamazov Brothers. Most of these figures were no better known in mainstream circles at the time than the earlier generation was 10 or 15 years before. The Next Wave made BAM the outer-borough annex of Downtown, while at the same time turning avant-garde art into a deliciously daring pursuit for the Uptown crowd, like motorcycle riding. ''That gave us sort of a gritty persona -- not only that we were showing all this tough work, but that we were doing it in Brooklyn,'' Hopkins says. ''And we used that. We said, 'Your friends are going to find their way to Lincoln Center. But you have to get them to Brooklyn.' It was a macho thing.''
In his new job, even more than in his old one, Lichtenstein has had to draw on his pragmatic willingness to find the best solution. He had wanted the cultural institutions in the BAM L.D.C. to be as forward-looking as the ones he brought to BAM. Even before the L.D.C. was formed, he helped the Mark Morris Dance Group acquire an abandoned building diagonally across from BAM, where the celebrated dancer built a $7 million studio and office -- a ravishing space for dancers accustomed to dingy theaters. Then Lichtenstein arranged to bring the Twyla Tharp Dance Company to a nearby church, but the deal ultimately fell through. He said he had hoped to attract the Wooster Group, an avant-garde theatrical troupe, and the New Museum, which showcases contemporary work, to the new district, but those, too, fell by the wayside. Neither the Brooklyn Public Library nor the Theater for a New Audience nor WNYC, the public radio station, with which he is now in deep negotiation, satisfies the grand vision. But Lichtenstein is philosophical. ''It's more of a community thing than BAM was,'' he says. ''BAM was a big house, and playing off against Manhattan, and it really needed something that would be able to attract the cultural clientele in the city. Now we're looking for a broader landscape for the community, for Brooklyn.''
 Perhaps with encouragement from Lutfy, the enabler of this enterprise, Lichtenstein has learned, if haltingly, to speak the language of ''the community.'' He is still baffled that people would rather see 651 Arts shows than Pina Bausch, but he seems to have absorbed the fact that most people do not, in fact, hanker for advanced cultural experiences; they care about their neighborhood, and fear losing its coordinates. He has let go of some elements of the utopian vision. Gone is the artists' housing: the housing will now be divided more or less equally between subsidized units for the neighborhood and market-rate ones, to ensure an adequate profit for the developers, among them, Bruce Ratner (who also sits on the board of BAM). Lichtenstein and Lutfy have worked with unions to ensure that on L.D.C. work sites young people from the community will be hired as apprentices; a significant fraction of contracts will go to companies owned by minorities, women and local people. The BAM L.D.C. also plans to hire educators to serve as a bridge between the new arts groups and local schools. And the protesters have drifted away to other concerns.
 The new neighborhood is just beginning to take shape. The L.D.C. has not even found institutions yet for two of the four plots it controls. The first project, a former office building converted to office space for arts groups, including up-and-coming local organizations as well as what Lichtenstein considers ''well-known'' groups like Bomb magazine and the Bang on a Can festival, is scheduled to open this summer. And yet the cultural district will inevitably transform the neighborhood from a quiet and self-contained locality to a fragment of global culture. The architecture alone may well effect this transformation, for Lichtenstein said he is hoping to attract the most notable architects in the world to his little pocket of Brooklyn. The Enrique Norten design for the Library for the Visual and Performing Arts looks like a great crystal ship pointing its prow into Brooklyn; Herbert Muschamp, The Times's architecture critic, has called it ''New York's first full-fledged masterwork for the information age.'' And the teaming of the wildly inventive Frank Gehry with the more fastidious and tradition-minded Hugh Hardy in the building of the Theater for a New Audience's home has just the element of planned incongruity and eclecticism that lies behind the entire district. A new home is also ready for WNYC, should the station agree to move to Brooklyn.
 It is an oddity of New York's history that cosmopolitan culture has always been confined to Manhattan. New York has never had a Left Bank or a South Bank, perhaps for no better reason than that the East River is wider than the Thames in London or the Seine as it passes through Paris, and so Brooklyn and Queens developed as separate cities, and even separate states of mind. That is now coming to an end, especially in Brooklyn, where the latest news is that Bruce Ratner is planning to build a basketball arena and office-and-housing complex just down Flatbush from Lichtenstein's neighborhood -- and that the architect will be Frank Gehry, rapidly becoming the borough's designer-laureate. And even if the project never comes to pass, Brooklyn, which in Harvey Lichtenstein's boyhood was the world's capital of the ''white ethnic,'' has already become a competing center of cool, both among young people and artists. There are said to be more painters in the outer borough than in the inner; the Brooklyn Museum is now featuring a show with works by 200 Brooklyn artists.
 One afternoon I asked Lichtenstein to compare his old and his new life. ''That was a great time,'' he said, with a little sigh. ''This time is not bad. I don't quite have the power I built up gradually at BAM to do things. At the same time, I've got this vision, I'm working with people like Gehry, I'm working with the community, I'm making mistakes. I think that my job is to keep the real heart and soul and core of the plan alive.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: 1., 2., 3. Paul Niebanck, Jeffrey Horowitz (artistic Director), Linda Powell of Theater for a New Audience. 4., 5. Stephanie Bok, Matthew Gray of American Opera Projects. 6., 7., 9. Christal N. Brown, Maria Bauman, Chanon Judson of Urban Bush Women. 8. Howard Larson, BAM stagehand. 10. Ginnie Cooper, Executive Director, Brooklyn Public Library. 11., 12. John Avant, Erin Jennings of Shadow Box Theater. 13., 14. Katherine Hannauer, Andrew Seligson of the Brooklyn Philharmonic. 15. Karen Brooks Hopkins, President, BAM. 16., 17. Nneka Mitchell, Tabresha Harris of Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration. 18. Jeanne Lutfy, President, BAM L.D.C. 19. Marlene Sapp Chance, NY Writers Coalition. 20., 21. Eiko (left) and Koma, dancers. 22. Paula McGonagle, Ripe time. 23. Trisha Brown, Choreographer. 24. Harvey Lichtenstein. 25. Philip Glass, Composer. 26. Kanik Chung, Urban Glass. 27. Anika Ellis, Creative Outlet Dance Theater of Brooklyn. 28. Sudha Seetharaman, Trilok Fusion Arts. 29. Bjorn Amelan, Associate Artistic Director, Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company. 30. Bill T. Jones, choreographer. 31. Akua Dixon, 651 Arts. 32. d. Lammie-Hanson, SONYA. 33. Cerrisa Pickens, NY Writers Coalition. 34. Bahiyah Sayyed Gaines, Creative Outlet Dance Theater. 35. Elizabeth Swados, writer-composer. (Photograph by Neal Slavin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BALLET (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DANCE EDUCATION (73%); DANCE (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (65%); LIBRARIES (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



515 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1918 words

HEADLINE: Getting the Best Students to Go Local

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

 BODY:
WHEN Alyssa Dunn applied to colleges as a senior at Jericho High School, she included nearby Hofstra University on the list almost as an afterthought. With her A average and SAT score of 1380, she was admitted to SUNY-Binghamton, to St. John's in Queens and to honors programs at the universities of Connecticut and Delaware. 
 But then a letter arrived from Hofstra that suddenly changed the equation. It informed Ms. Dunn that she had won entry into the Hempstead school's honors college and had been awarded a $40,000 scholarship. 
 ''I was just like, 'Whoa,''' Ms. Dunn recalled. 
 Hofstra followed up with a well-orchestrated recruiting process, including calls from contented students, promises of free tickets to local events and what she described as a ''fancy dinner'' featuring further glowing testimony from attendees.
 It worked. ''In the end I just figured Hofstra made the most sense,'' said Ms. Dunn, now a Hofstra freshman.
 Experiences like Ms. Dunn's have become fairly common for prospective college students on Long Island. This year, Jovina Ricciardi, an honors student and all-state musician at Connetquot High School in Bohemia, turned down offers from Delaware and James Madison University in Virginia after Long Island University offered her $14,500 in scholarships and a paid internship to attend its C.W. Post campus in Brookville. Her classmate, Alex Fertmann, had New York University, Fordham, Hofstra and St. John's in a bidding war before deciding to accept the top offer -- free tuition -- from Hofstra, which he will attend in the fall.
 Just a few years ago, these college-bound students might have had far less incentive to attend one of the Long Island universities, all of which have suffered to varying degrees from reputations as commuter schools of indifferent quality, not suitable for the best of the Island's exceptionally large crop of high-achieving high school seniors. Given that local high schools provide the bulk of their undergraduates -- even the most geographically diverse of the Island's universities draw about half of their students from Nassau and Suffolk counties -- it has been essential, in order for them to improve their station, to find ways to raise the number and academic caliber of those applicants.
 Yet the better students have mostly gone to college elsewhere, which is where they often find jobs when they graduate. This brain drain has long been lamented by local businesses. ''The problem when students go away is that they tend to stay away, which in turn prevents Long Island from having a strong and skilled work force,'' said Cheryl Davidson, executive director of the Long Island Works Coalition, a group that seeks to promote ties between students and Long Island-based companies. 
 Or, as the Long Island University president, David J. Steinberg, put it, ''We're exporting our own seed corn.''
 In an effort to reverse that trend and to increase enrollment, revenue and academic standards, schools like Hofstra, Stony Brook University, C.W. Post and Adelphi University are going to great lengths to make themselves more attractive to the talent-rich and relatively wealthy pool of high school students on Long Island.
 Part of this stepped-up marketing is intended to appeal to individual students with increased financial aid packages that are often based less on applicants' actual need than on a desire to compete with other schools for talented students. These schools have also invested considerable resources on overhauling their images, whether by beautifying campuses and dorms, expanding academic options or beefing up athletic programs to close what has been a serious glamour gap with schools in other regions and states. 
 ''It's critical,'' said Dr. Steinberg, when asked about the importance to Long Island schools in attracting better local students. ''We've all made extraordinary investments to make ourselves far better and far more competitive. We have responded, as it were, to the longer-term notion of leaving the Island and have said we were going to offer a product which is worth staying for. We've all invested very substantially in student life and services, and in athletics, to become more effective competitors with other schools in the greater Northeastern region and beyond.''
 Stony Brook, a state university that draws approximately half of its students from Nassau and Suffolk, has managed to admit more local applicants each year while toughening admissions standards. (The undergraduate population is now up to 12,708 from 11,419 five years ago, and the average SAT score of incoming freshmen is up to 1208, among the best in the state.) The number of Hofstra's applications from Long Island have remained steady even as the average SAT of enrollees is now 1130, up from 1070 two years ago. At Adelphi, which draws a solid majority of its students from Long Island, applications from Nassau and Suffolk are up by well more than a third, while average SAT scores have risen by more than 40 points to 1095. 
 But the changes undertaken to attract more and better applicants have not come cheap, and it is not always easy to measure exactly how the benefits measure up against the costs. Adelphi, for example, has tripled the value of its scholarships and other financial aid from five years ago, to $18 million from $6 million. Over the same period, Hofstra stepped up its aid to $29 million 
 from $17 million. 
 Although a portion of these rising costs are covered by endowments and money raised from alumni and others, much must inevitably come from the universities' general operating funds. And that, in turn, can put pressure on these schools to raise tuition, so the majority of students pay the expense of attracting an elite few.
 Adelphi's tuition is now $17,800; Hofstra's is $17,410, and C.W. Post's is $19,510. All of these prices are up more than a quarter over the last five years. These increasing costs both of financial aid and tuition at Long Island schools is in line with broad trends for private universities nationally, according to Sandy Baum, who researches trends for the College Board, the association of more than 4,500 educational organizations. 
 ''Although there are lots of things causing tuition to go up, it's also clear that if they didn't spend more money on financial aid they could charge lower tuition,'' she said. ''And the more tuition goes up, the more need students have because they aren't able to pay the full tuition. So it is in one sense an endless cycle.''
 Ms. Baum attributed much of the increase to competition among schools that wish to improve their academic standards. ''Top colleges like Harvard, Princeton or Yale, their aid is based totally on need,'' she said. ''But other institutions who say, 'We're going to give money to students with high SAT scores' -- those schools are clearly competing for students.''
 For the Long Island universities, increases in financial aid are only a fraction of the expenditures undertaken to make themselves more competitive. Stony Brook, long an outstanding school for the hard sciences, spent a great deal of time and resources to upgrade its athletic program, even building a $22 million stadium for the football team to shift what had been a somewhat nerdy image. C.W. Post spent $18 million on a new recreation center that officials say is now an important part of the school's pitch to prospective students. Hofstra and Adelphi each spent millions to make themselves more inviting to full-time residents by renovating old dorms and building new ones. 
 Of course, high-profile enhancements, increased scholarships and intensified marketing can only be part of the solution, as officials at these schools readily admit. One thing most university officials seem to agree on is that their old stereotypes are dying hard. 
 ''I think the image of Hofstra hasn't kept up with the reality,'' said Stuart Rabinowitz, the Hofstra president. ''And I certainly know that Stony Brook has had the same Long Island image to deal with. I do think there is an image to overcome, which is that we are parochial.'' Dr. Steinberg said, ''There's a deep structural prejudice against Long Island institutions, and I think it's a very steep uphill task to change it.''
 They acknowledge that new stadiums or rec centers can never substitute for investment in academics. ''We've been trying to make our university as appealing as possible first by paying attention to quality,'' said the Adelphi president, Robert A. Scott. ''Gloss and puffery don't last.''
 More important to raising interest locally, Dr. Scott said, have been the labor-intensive efforts by schools such as his to improve their networking with local high school guidance departments and students to change perceptions about going to school on Long Island.
 ''I think in many of the more affluent communities especially, parents and guidance counselors recommend that students go to colleges with prestige, and most colleges on Long Island have a tradition of mostly serving commuter students,'' Dr. Scott said. ''We're focusing on talking with guidance counselors, principals and school superintendents and making sure they know the quality of education that we offer, and on talking to students, so they know that even if their parents live 20 minutes away, they can live on campus and get that full college experience.'' 
 Shirley Strum Kenny, the Stony Brook president who spearheaded the university's ascension to Division I athletics -- a potentially costly proposition, considering that 96 percent of D-1 programs in America lose money -- said that the most important draw for her school remains its academics.
 ''It spreads through the communities where our students and alumni live when people in those neighborhoods see what kind of graduate schools they get into,'' she said.
 Phil Clark, a guidance counselor at Connetquot High School, said he sees a combination of factors that are encouraging more students to consider Long Island colleges. He said the students he talks to are influenced by the aggressive recruiting efforts of these schools, including their willingness to spend money on scholarships and aid for local talent. 
 ''Most of these colleges are really targeting local students, because obviously we have a rather educated pool of students on Long Island in particular,'' he said. ''Schools like Hofstra, Post, Adelphi and Stony Brook are definitely going after the higher-level performing students with generous financial aid packages.'' 
 But there are also external factors that have been an important part of any shift in attitudes toward going to school on Long Island. Mr. Clark cited the shaky economy as one reason frequently cited by students looking to save money on room and board by commuting to school. Another factor was the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, which caused a spike in enrollment by Long Island students concerned about being too far from their families. 
 Ms. Dunn, who is nearing the end of her second semester at Hofstra, now commutes to school each day from Jericho after deciding that dorm life wasn't really for her. Assessing her experience so far, she said that her teachers had been very good, as had most of her classes, and that there were plenty of other activities offered around campus ''if you want them.'' 
 And if Hofstra's suburban surroundings weren't always exciting, well, there were ways of getting around that. ''There's not much going on on the weekends,'' she said. ''But you can always go to the city.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES on the Island have undertaken extensive efforts, like substantial financial aid packages and campus improvements, to lure applicants from the Island. Alyssa Dunn, top left, chose Hofstra, as seen in aerial photograph, top right, after it offered her admission to its honors college and a $40,000 scholarship. C.W. Post, center, in Brookville, set up a tent and held a barbecue for its Student Information Day last Sunday. Colleen Gilson, above right, studying for mid-terms in a Hofstra library. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Stony Brook, above, has managed to admit more local applicants each year. Adelphi, left, has invested heavily in student services. (Photos by Maxine Hicks, top, and Phil Marino, above, for The New York Times)
Stuart Rabinowitz, president of Hofstra University.
 David J. Steinberg, president of Long Island University. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); LABOR FORCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



516 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2200 words

HEADLINE: Finding A Future For LIPA

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
SIX years after taking over as Long Island's electric utility, the Long Island Power Authority seems to be having an identity crisis and is filled with questions about what it should become.
 Never mind that few people understand what, in the fullest sense, the 18-year-old authority is. In its simplest form, it is a public power agency created by the state in 1986 for the express purpose of taking over the Long Island Lighting Company and closing its Shoreham nuclear power plant, which was nearing completion. 
 Then, in 1998, in a deal totaling $6.8 billion, the authority bought the former Lilco transmission and delivery system and assumed $4.5 billion in publicly financed debt for the Shoreham plant. The KeySpan Energy Corporation, a new company formed when the Brooklyn Union Gas Company merged with what remained of Lilco, took ownership of the power plants that supply LIPA with most of its electricity. 
 Beyond that, descriptions of LIPA vary. Supporters, including its own officials, see it as the public power company that vanquished Lilco, slew the Shoreham dragon, slashed electric rates that were the highest in the continental United States, restored a shaky and decrepit utility system and took the lead in solar and windmill power programs.
 Detractors see LIPA as an organ of high-finance trickery, an enricher of bond brokers and undeserving utility executives, a swallower of $4.5 billion in debt that customers must repay for a nuclear plant that never opened, a bungling and deceitful manager, a rogue monopoly answerable to nobody but Governor Pataki, and perhaps worst of all, the new Lilco.
 LIPA's chairman and executive director, Richard M. Kessel, believes that most of the 2.8 million customers in Nassau, Suffolk and Queens couldn't care less as long as the lights stay on and rates don't skyrocket. 
 ''Frankly, I don't think most of the people on Long Island know we are a municipal company,'' said Mr. Kessel, speaking a few days after a public meeting in Lindenhurst to gather comments on a LIPA energy plan drew an audience of one.
 Understood or not, the authority is now examining options for its future, and much may be on the line for Long Island. Selling its assets to a private company, expanding to become a full-service municipal power provider or remaining the same odd public-private hybrid are now on the table.
 Mr. Kessel said that intensive study would be needed to pick the best option. But in an telephone interview earlier this month he appeared to be advancing a proposal in which the authority would sell the electric delivery system it now owns, buy at least some of the generating capacity KeySpan owns on Long Island, promote alternative energy systems and continue to operate as a tax-exempt public power company.
 ''KeySpan has to be part of the discussion, because they own the generation,'' Mr. Kessel said, ''and maybe there is a deal to be made between the transmission and delivery system and generation.'' 
 In a subplot, Mr. Kessel, the face and voice of the authority since he became chairman six years ago, said he did not expect to remain as its leader for more than a few years longer. ''This is the toughest public-service job on Long Island, and I am not going to do it forever,'' he said, adding that he ''would be shocked'' if he were there in five years.
 Mr. Kessel has been under attack from three Long Island Democrats in the State Assembly -- Patricia Eddington of Patchogue, Philip Ramos of Brentwood and Ginny Field of Sayville -- who joined with another Democrat, Paul Tonko of Amsterdam, the Assembly's chairman, in demanding that Mr. Kessel step down either as the executive director or as the board chairman of the power authority. 
 Mr. Kessel's wearing two hats, they said in a letter to Governor Pataki, is contrary to an administration directive on the management of public authorities. Ms. Eddington said last week that there had been no reply from Mr. Pataki, who had picked Mr. Kessel to head LIPA. 
 Ms. Eddington said it was telling that Mr. Kessel had raised the privatization issue at such a moment. But Mr. Kessel said it was incorrect to assume there was any connection or that his motive was to divert attention from the question of whether he should hold both titles. 
 Mr. Tonko, a critic of the power authority and of Mr. Kessel, said he believed Mr. Kessel was trying to divert attention not from his dual role but from the far more serious problems of authority mismanagement, which was causing electric rates to go up. ''It seems like a major attempt to distract from their failed management efforts and policies,'' Mr. Tonko said. ''It seems like a weapon of mass distraction.''
 Mr. Kessel said the authority was only acting prudently by reviewing its choices. ''I am not trying to divert anyone,'' he said. ''I am the head of LIPA until the governor doesn't want me anymore or I don't want to be anymore.''
 The most startling option laid out by Mr. Kessel was selling the electric transmission and delivery system -- the system the authority acquired from Lilco in 1998 -- to a private company.
 KeySpan has already said it would be interested in talking. ''Whatever LIPA determines about its future, KeySpan will obviously have an interest,'' said David Manning, the company's senior vice president for corporate affairs.
 As the region's major supplier of natural gas and the owner and operator of the former Lilco power plants that supply most of Long Island's electricity, KeySpan would become the Island's full-service private utility if it bought the delivery system, which it currently manages for the authority. 
 Such a privatizing step would reverse the public takeover that had been conceived as a way to cut electric rates by converting the cost of Lilco's failed Shoreham nuclear power project into $4.5 billion in tax-exempt public debt. It would leave the authority as a kind of collection agency for that debt. A pressing question is whether the Internal Revenue Service would allow the bonds to remain tax-exempt.
 Gordian Raacke, the executive director of the Citizens Advisory Panel, an energy watchdog group in Bridgehampton, said that reverting to a private system would put the public on the outside again in setting energy policy. ''Public power means the people who pay the bills have a chance to be in the driver's seat,'' he said. ''Why would we now want to give up that position?''
 Other advocates of public power said that privatization would not help lower rates. ''It is highly unlikely it would provide any savings, so there must be another agenda at work,'' said Steve Liss, a former LIPA trustee and now the counsel to Assemblyman Robert Sweeney, Democrat of Lindenhurst.
 Mr. Sweeney introduced a bill last week that would restore elections for authority trustees, a requirement in the 1986 state law that created LIPA. It was later removed at the behest of Mr. Pataki. The governor, the Assembly speaker and the Senate majority leader appointed the current trustees.
 Mr. Sweeney said that a privatization deal would hurt electric customers but would be welcomed on Wall Street. ''I am sure the bond brokers are breaking out the Champagne in anticipation of a huge deal,'' he said.
 Under the second option outlined by Mr. Kessel, the power authority would expand to become a full municipal power system by buying some or all of the KeySpan plants, including five large power stations and more than 50 smaller generators.
 The 1998 Lilco agreement gave the authority the right to buy the plants at fair market value. A window for the purchase opens next month and will close in May 2005.
 While the authority would be able to sell tax-exempt bonds to finance the purchase, doing so would also add to a debt that is already very high. ''They are currently the highest-leveraged municipal utility in the country,'' said Daniel J. Aschenbach, a senior vice president of Moody's Investors Service and the lead credit analyst covering the authority.
 But Mr. Aschenbach also noted a trend in which ''public power systems are going back to taking care of themselves'' by increasing local generation of electricity as an alternative to importing electricity over problem-prone regional transmission systems.
 ''All across the country, they are basically backing away from the transmission grid by building local generation,'' he said. And that, he added, has also helped public power companies ''avoid the volatility and uncertainty that the deregulated market has brought.'' 
 Mr. Aschenbach said that the authority was acting wisely in at least considering buying the KeySpan plants. ''If the economics are there, it is certainly something they want to look at,'' he said. ''It's a big decision for LIPA, since they do not have the experience as a manager of generation.'' 
 Mr. Manning, the KeySpan senior vice president, sees little advantage to LIPA in owning the plants. ''Those plants are operating now, and they are fully committed to LIPA,'' he said. ''LIPA has first call on all production from those plants today.''
 Mr. Manning would not answer directly when asked if KeySpan would be interested in purchasing the LIPA transmission and delivery system. Instead, he noted that KeySpan was deeply invested in Long Island and was already the contractor providing electric service through LIPA. ''We think we are in the best position to provide those services going forward,'' he said.
 Irving Like, a public power advocate and former LIPA trustee, said there was little doubt of KeySpan's interest. ''Naturally, KeySpan would love to buy the assets from LIPA,'' he said. ''Then they will own everything.'' 
 Mr. Like, a lawyer in Babylon, said that the savings in electric rates that LIPA claimed as a result of the 1998 takeover were about to be eclipsed. 
 ''LIPA has boasted of five years of savings as a result of the Lilco deal, due to LIPA's advantages as a public power entity -- no stockholder dividends, no federal income taxes and the right to borrow at lower tax-exempt interest rates,'' he said. ''However, it is likely that these 'savings,' achieved by borrowings, which have to be repaid with interest in the future, resulting in more debt than what was saved, will in the not too distant future be reversed by a number of factors.'' 
 Mr. Like said these factors included the higher cost of debt service, increased fuel costs and eventual higher payments to KeySpan. A core problem, Mr. Like contends, is that LIPA overpaid Lilco by $1.4 billion in the 1998 takeover.
 ''Privatization is probably Chairman Richard Kessel's exit strategy to extricate himself from what he foresees as insurmountable problems resulting in great measure from LIPA's acquisition of Lilco,'' Mr. Like said.
 Others said they were struck by what they saw as a total reversal by Mr. Kessel and LIPA in considering privatization. ''I would sure like to hear them make the argument that they are better off private after having just made the argument several years ago that we were better off going public,'' said Mr. Sweeney, the Lindenhurst assemblyman.
 Mr. Kessel said that the authority was re-examining itself because of the pending decision about whether to buy the KeySpan plants. 
 In his comments, he appeared to describe a future LIPA that owns some assets, including at least some generators, and continues as a public authority whose bonds remain tax-exempt. ''Maybe we buy one or two of the KeySpan plants and repower them,'' he said. Repowering is a process in which existing plants are fitted with sophisticated new equipment to increase production while decreasing emissions. 
 Mr. Kessel said the perception that LIPA was heading toward privatization was incorrect. ''I am not saying we should privatize,'' he said. ''I am just saying we should look at it.'' 
 But he also seemed to suggest that LIPA had accomplished most of what it had set out to do. ''Things are far better than they were under Lilco,'' he said. ''They are not perfect, but we have basically accomplished every objective.''
 By privatizing, he said, ''you would remove the two levels of management,'' LIPA and KeySpan, ''and save a significant amount of money.'' He added that in the past he had been less a champion of public power than an opponent of Lilco. ''My aversion was never to private, it was to Lilco,'' he said. ''And Lilco is gone. It's history.''
 But Ms. Eddington, the state assemblywoman, said that LIPA operated in the same arrogant manner as Lilco, insisting that it was holding down rates when in fact it was raising them to meet fuel costs. ''Tell me, how has LIPA helped the ratepayers?'' she said. ''In my opinion, right now LIPA is Lilco.''
 Others saw a future in which LIPA would be a shell structured to hold the Shoreham debt and assure that the bonds remain tax-exempt. ''We paid $7 billion to take over some of the assets and make the dream of public power come true,'' said Mr. Raacke of the Citizens Advisory Panel. ''Now if we are left holding the Shoreham bag, we have gained nothing and lost a lot.''
 Mr. Liss, the counsel to Assemblyman Sweeney, said, ''If in the end the public ends up owning nothing but the Shoreham debt, that's very sad, and they have been woefully betrayed.''


CORRECTION-DATE: May 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 25 about a debate over the future of the Long Island Power Authority misstated a title for Richard M. Kessel. Besides being chairman, he is chief executive of the authority, not executive director. The article also misstated the number of LIPA customers. It is 1.1 million; 2.8 million is the population of the LIPA service area, which includes most of Nassau and Suffolk counties and part of Queens. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: LIPA'S CHAIRMAN -- ''This is the toughest public-service job on Long Island, and I am not going to do it forever,'' Richard M. Kessel said. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The state created the Long Island Power Authority in 1986 to shut down the Shoreham nuclear plant. (Photo by Kevin P. Coughlin/Photostation)(pg. 7)
 ''KeySpan has to be part of the discussion, because they own the generation,'' said Richard M. Kessel, LIPA's chairman. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (69%); BONDS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SECURITIES BROKERS (62%); TAX LAW (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (97%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (97%); NG (LSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (97%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (97%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (97%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (97%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



517 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11; LONG ISLAND VINES

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Pindar Offers Dining Wines In Magnums

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

 BODY:
Pindar Vineyards, Long Island's largest-volume producer, has released two oversize bottles of food-oriented wines that cost-conscious hosts may find economically appealing, especially with large-scale, warm-weather entertaining starting. 
 Pindar is selling -- only in shops and restaurants -- magnums of a spiffy 2003 chardonnay and a Bordeaux-like 2002 merlot, each carrying suggested retail prices of $11.99. These 1. 5-liter bottles are twice the size of standard 750-milliliter ones. 
 The winery, in Peconic, believes that the wines can hold their own against such established brands as Woodridge (Mondavi), from California; Yellow Tail, from Australia; and Columbia Crest, from Washington State. It may have a point.
 The chardonnay, a simple wine with ample fruit, refreshing acidity and minimum woodiness, brings to mind inexpensive counterparts from the Macon region of France, as James Silver, Pindar's national sales director, correctly observes. The merlot -- understated, soft and redolent of crushed berries -- can easily wash down meat dishes from hors d'oeuvres though entrees. 
 Both the chardonnay and merlot in magnum will not be sold at the winery because, Mr. Silver said, ''We are afraid that we would lose the momentum we have selling more expensive varietal wines to visitors if we sold them there.''
 Pindar's tasting room draws hordes of visitors; as many as 5,000 on summer weekends, he said. At 72,000 cases of wine made in 2003, with 606 acres of 667 acres under vines and more planting imminent, Pindar promotes a populist image that overshadows some of its more ambitious wines. Perhaps its most highly praised label is Mythology, a complex Bordeaux-style red blend; the 1998 edition costs $27.99.
 The Web site (www.pindar.net) lists 23 wines ranging from $7.99 for nonvintage pop blends to $34.99 for a half-bottle of riesling ice wine. The costliest chardonnay is the 2001 Sunflower special reserve at $16.99; the most expensive merlot is the 2000 reserve at $18.99.
 The chardonnay and merlot in magnums were made by Jason Damianos, a son of Herodotus Damianos, who owns Pindar and Duck Walk, its sister winery in Water Mill, on the South Fork. Only grapes from Pindar were used, Mr. Silver said.
 Plenty was produced: about 9,000 six-bottle cases of the chardonnay and 3,000 of the merlot, Mr. Silver said. Pindar hopes to place them not only throughout the Island but also in New York City, New Jersey and Connecticut. 
 The perception of Long Island, especially in New York City, is ''that of an overpriced, underwhelming region'' that is ''still experiencing growing pains,'' Mr. Silver said. ''With our massive vineyard resources,'' he added, Pindar hoped ''to turn the whole tide of that perception'' -- to show ''that we can produce excellent, quality table wines, accessible to anyone at anytime, in good quantity, at a fair price.'' HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (91%); WINERIES (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); WASHINGTON, USA (56%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



518 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By Scott Veale

 BODY:

THE LOVELY BONES, by Alice Sebold. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $13.95.) The bones in this audacious first novel, which is narrated by a 14-year-old girl looking down from heaven after her abduction and murder, refer not to the victim but to the connections forged among her family members as they emerge from the grief and dysfunction that follow her death. The book, which became a surprise best seller, ''deals with almost unthinkable subjects with humor and intelligence and a kind of mysterious grace,'' Katherine Bouton wrote in the Book Review in 2002.

A WHISTLING WOMAN, by A. S. Byatt. (Vintage International, $15.) In the fourth and final novel in a 25-year-old series about an academic English family navigating the 1950's and 60's, Byatt's protagonist, the brainy Frederica Potter, has a television show on which she interviews savants on everything from Tupperware to Freud (providing the author with a launching pad for withering satire and arcane facts). Last year our reviewer, Daphne Merkin, found the book overstuffed at times, but said ''there is a good deal of fascinating reflection'' and ''memorable images . . . by the dozen.''

DEEP IN A DREAM: The Long Night of Chet Baker, by James Gavin. (Welcome Rain, $17.95.) According to this meticulous account of the jazz trumpeter, singer and cool-cat icon, Baker was hardly worthy of his romantic mystique: ravaged by avarice and heroin addiction, he abused nearly everything and everyone around him. ''The story is relentlessly bleak and depleting, but essential in its truth,'' David Hajdu said here in 2002. ''Gavin has brought us as close as life to his subject.''

RAISING AMERICA: Experts, Parents, and a Century of Advice About Children, by Ann Hulbert. (Vintage, $15.) Marshaling a prodigious amount of material to examine what 100 years of child-rearing advice has amounted to, the author finds much of the conventional wisdom has teeter-tottered between discipline and permissiveness, and between the scientific and the sermonic. ''Her history is fascinating as it reflects the tensions and anxieties of a century,'' Stacy Schiff wrote in these pages last year. When it came out in 2002, Creating a Life: What Every Woman Needs to Know About Having a Baby and a Career, by Sylvia Ann Hewlett (Miramax, $13), caused a fuss by citing a survey that found that more than a third of highly paid professional women over 40 are childless, many because they waited too late to try to have babies. Beyond that, the book raises a vexed question: how do ambitious women balance work, marriage and motherhood? The result is ''an attempt to help women think about how to get what they want'' and ''a jumping-off point for a national conversation that is long overdue,'' Susan Chira said here.

GETTING MOTHER'S BODY, by Suzan-Lori Parks. (Random House, $12.95.) This first novel by an African-American playwright and Pulitzer Prize winner is unabashedly Faulknerian as it tells -- in light-footed, straightforward fashion -- how the hard-pressed survivors of a small-town Texas woman are knitted together by their quest for the deceased's jewelry, which may or may not be with her in the grave. Though the tale is short on nuance, Laura Miller wrote here in 2003, ''Parks brings a dramatist's skills to her fiction, and they are nothing to sneeze at.''

CRABWALK, by Gunter Grass. (Harvest/Harcourt, $13.) The torpedoing of a ship with 9,000 refugees aboard by a Soviet submarine in 1945 provides Grass with another opportunity to reflect on Germany's past and future, using the experiences of three generations of a family touched by the tragedy. The result is a ''thought-provoking'' novel in which ''Grass's sheer boldness, the grand scale of his conception, echoes the giants of French art and letters like Delacroix and Stendhal,'' Jeremy Adler said here last year.

INTIMATE ENEMIES: The Two Worlds of the Baroness de Pontalba, by Christina Vella. (Louisiana State University, $19.95.) A historian revisits a notorious 19th-century scandal involving the marital alliance of two Louisiana families, and the despair and murderous rage that followed. Vella ''does a spectacular job'' unraveling ''the complexities of class, marriage, family economy, politics and the law, both in France and in Louisiana, spanning four generations,'' Angeline Goreau wrote here in 1997. Scott Veale


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Jerry Bauer
 Gerhard Steidl)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); PARENTING (77%); FAMILY (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); JAZZ & BLUES (64%); HEROIN (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



519 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1; JERSEY

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Women Wrestlers Are Nothing to Laugh At

BYLINE: By FRAN SCHUMER

 BODY:
A FEW years back, Olivia Van Osch, the slender, blond daughter of investment bankers who bike and run on the weekends, decided to join her town's wrestling team along with three of her brothers.
 ''Oh, wouldn't that be great if they all did the same sport?'' said Mrs. Van Osch, the mother of five. ''Just think about the economies of scale in terms of driving.''' 
 A month later, the boys quit, leaving only Olivia - and for one main reason: ''I just really liked it,'' she said. ''You were out there on your own. You couldn't blame your performance on anyone.''
 At 15, Olivia -- a freshman on the high school wrestling team in Maplewood-South Orange -- defies the image of the female wrestler; 5 feet 2 inches tall, she weighs 114, and except for her occasionally punk hair, could easily pass for the Abercrombie Girl. Still, neither her looks nor her experience growing up in a house full of brothers have shielded her from the ignominy visited upon anyone who tries to go against convention.
 In seventh grade, a group of boys chased her into the gym, taunting her until she cried. ''They weren't wrestlers,'' she consoled herself. ''They didn't understand.'' 
 Also, she added, ''I wasn't going to let them make me quit.''
 Then there were the episodes of no-show opponents. On Olivia's recreational team, her mother said, ''She was their biggest point earner; everyone forfeited to her.'' 
 If the presence of girl wrestlers on mostly male teams is hard for the girls, it's hard for guys, too. The general ethos is: if you lose to a girl, you lose, and if you win, you lose.
 But those attitudes are changing, says John Welch, chairman of the New Jersey Division of USA Wrestling. In fact, on the eve of opposing one of the state's leading female wrestlers, Kim Salma of Fair Lawn, her opponent was quoted as saying: ''I've wrestled a girl before, so it's not the first time. You have to treat her the same way as anyone else. Once the match starts, it's not even a factor because you want to win so badly.''
 One question commonly posed to high school girls who wrestle: Isn't it odd rolling around on the floor with a bunch of boys?
 ''Yeah,'' Olivia answers, ''but it's also odd for guys to roll around on the floor with other guys.''
 And why would you want to?
 ''Wrestling teaches you not to give up, not to care what other people say,'' she says. ''You do all this practice - hours and hours. Maybe you get six minutes on a mat and you could lose.'' The experience makes you stronger, she added.
 In 2003, 52 girls wrestled at the high school level compared with 13,000 boys, said Steven Timko, assistant director in charge of wrestling for New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association. Compared with Texas, California, Hawaii - even Massachusetts - that number is tiny and for a variety of reasons.
 One is affluence. ''Our kids ski; they go to the beach,'' says Mr. Welch. ''Our athletes, both male and female, have so many choices.'' Another factor, however, is the absence of all-girls facilities: coaches, tournaments and even teams, especially at the high school level, when the differences between male and female athletes become much more critical.
 Brandy Price, 15, a freshman at Northern Burlington Regional High School, began wrestling when she was 9. Other than the usual stares from people who associated female wrestlers with bulging muscles - at 5 feet 5 inches tall, Brandy weighs 103 and calls herself skinny - most of her career has been happy. Then, she got to high school and both she and her father agreed she could no longer wrestle on a mostly male team.
 ''We've been looking for help for a long time,'' says David Price, who drives her an hour and 15 minutes from their home in Columbus to Pennsylvania, where she trains with a coach and practices with other women.
 Given the news -- women will wrestle at the Olympics in Athens for the first time this summer - aficionados look to the day when the words ''women'' and ''wrestling'' will summon up more reasonable entries than ''mud'' and ''nude'' (see Google).
 ''Once people actually start to watch women wrestle, who knows?'' says Mr. Welch. ''They'll say, 'Hey that girl does moves. She's doing a fireman's carry just like my son.' And they'll see that the girls don't walk away bloody.''
 Mostly, they walk away like men, exhausted but brave. They also walk in different directions. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Stanford University, Patricia Miranda, the candidate most likely to represent the United States in Athens, is planning to enter Yale Law School this fall.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRESTLING (93%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



520 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5; COMMUNITIES

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: When Three Into Two Creates New Divisions

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: MILLBURN 

 BODY:
Some call it calming, as in the bureaucratic locution ''traffic calming experiment.'' Others hardly see it that way. Take downtown Millburn. 
 ''It's been a nightmare,'' Joel Manning, the owner of Manning's, a women's clothing store, said of a three-week experiment that left dozens of orange and white traffic barrels lining a one-block stretch of Millburn Avenue -- the main business street in this upscale town -- to reduce three lanes to two as a means of slowing traffic. 
 ''It causes more congestion, and the speeding has not slowed down,'' lamented Mr. Manning, whose store sits near the corner of Main Street and Millburn Avenue, the epicenter of the town's shopping district. 
 Still, he and many others here acknowledge that something has to be done to slow motorists who cut through town between Routes 78 and 124 on the east and Routes 24/124 on the west.
 If the experiment is deemed a success, the sidewalks will be widened to narrow the roadway at that point. But from appearances, the experiment succeeded mostly in testing the patience of motorists, creating back-ups -- at times for several blocks -- and causing some merchants to mutter about whom to blame: township officials or the leadership of the Downtown Merchants Development Alliance, a quasi-governmental agency that manages the downtown special improvement district.
 In truth, the experiment, which ended yesterday, is an outgrowth of a downtown master plan that was prepared for the agency. 
 ''My personal take on it was, if you're going to make things better, you've got to try new stuff,'' said Paul A. Gomperz, president of the alliance. ''Change does not guarantee improvement, but you cannot have improvement without change.'' 
 Thus has Millburn joined a growing number of communities in the state that with varying degrees of success have turned to traffic calming to create pedestrian-friendly environments and help to revive downtown shopping districts -- in Millburn's case an area of 200 retail stores and restaurants.
 ''We've been doing everything we can to make the traffic slow down,'' said Pat Holden, executive director of the alliance, which has had its share of difficulties. 
 Traffic calming -- which involves reconfiguring roadways with such devices as widened sidewalks, curb bump-outs that jut into the roadway at intersections, traffic circles, landscaped median strips, more prominent cross walks, rumble strips and speed bumps -- has become a popular method of getting drivers to slow down.
 ''You want people to slow down to look at your stores and then to stop and get out and spend some money,'' said Daniel J. Baer, a transportation and land use planner who is a member of the alliance and a candidate for township committee.
 Initially, Millburn's master plan called for sidewalk bump-outs at certain intersections, but Essex County nixed the idea, saying they would make the roads too difficult and too costly to plow after a snowstorm, Township Manager Timothy P. Gordon said. 
 The alliance then came back with the idea of narrowing Millburn Avenue, and the township agreed to test it. Three weeks ago, the police began placing traffic barrels on Millburn Avenue at curbside for one block, and lines for parking were extended from the curb farther out into the street. 
 ''We're trying to determine if the same amount of traffic is going through downtown, and if not and we haven't eliminated it, is it now migrating into residential neighborhoods? Mr. Gordon said. ''You don't mind diverting some traffic but you don't want to divert a lot of it into local neighborhoods.''
 For the past several weeks -- as the sunshine and warmer weather drew merchants and shoppers alike outdoors -- they could be seen conversing, and in many instances grumbling, about the experiment. And to hear some merchants tell it, most shoppers were not pleased. 
 ''I've been hard-pressed to find anybody in favor of it,'' said Richard Futter, co-owner of Futter's Shoes on Millburn Avenue. ''I've heard very few say they're not sure. Most just don't like it.''
 Another merchant, Sue Shikiar, co-owner of Suki's, a children's clothing store on Millburn Avenue, was even more emphatic. ''It's terrible,'' Ms. Shikiar said. ''It's affected downtown to the point that people are discouraged to come in here.''
 Ms. Shikiar's partner, Kay Kikuchi, said the store's sales had dropped since the experiment began because of congestion, and the women lamented that merchants and shoppers had received little information about what to expect from the experiment.
 ''It's just a bad idea and they didn't really discuss it with us beforehand,'' said Ms. Kikuchi. ''There's a lack of communication among merchants and also the Downtown Alliance or whoever is organizing this.''
 But Gennaro Raimo, the owner of A.S.A.P. One-Hour Photo on Main Street and a member of the alliance board, said his customers seemed to be split in their responses.
 As Randy Fruchter, a clothing salesman from nearby Livingston, said one afternoon last week: ''It's a good idea because it's a more walkable environment. It's easier to cross the street. Rather than three lanes of traffic, you have two. I like this better.''
 In any event, township residents will get a chance to discuss the matter at a township committee meeting next month, Mr. Gordon said. 
 Mr. Raimo, the photography store owner, said he believes that most people want some form of traffic calming and commended the effort. ''This is a very bold move,'' he said.
 To others, the move might be bold, but ill-conceived as well.
 ''It's going to make traffic worse,'' said David Meyer, a financial adviser who lives in South Orange. ''And the sidewalks are wide enough.'' 
 His luncheon companion, James Mason, a laundromat owner from West Orange, said, ''It will make more accidents, three lanes of cars trying to get into two lanes.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In an effort to slow drivers and increase business downtown, Millburn is experimenting with its traffic patterns -- with mixed results. ''It's been a nightmare,'' said one store owner. (Photo by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); RETAILERS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



521 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: California Sets a Strict Health Goal for Arsenic in Drinking Water

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, April 24 

 BODY:
California set a public health goal on Friday for arsenic in drinking water that is so low that it cannot be measured by existing technology and is far below a pending federal standard that is already projected to cost state ratepayers more than $80 million.
 The health goal of four parts per trillion means arsenic would not cause more than one additional cancer case in a population of one million people drinking two liters of water daily for 70 years, said the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment at the California Environmental Protection Agency.
 The federal standard that will take effect in 2006 is 10 parts per billion, much higher. The current federal standard is 50 parts per billion. 
 ''There are a lot of people in California today drinking water that's well over 10 parts per billion,'' said Dr. Gina Solomon, a senior scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, which sued the federal Environmental Protection Agency in 2000 to force the updated standard.
 It would cost more than $80 million just to treat the more than 500 wells that exceed the pending federal standard, according to preliminary projections from the State Department of Health Services. Those wells feed about 300 water systems. Annual operating and maintenance costs would exceed $25 million.
 The department must now use the new state goal to create a standard for the maximum allowable level of arsenic in drinking water, which by law must be as close to the health goal as is economically and technically feasible.
 Cutting the permissible limit to two parts per billion, the lowest that can be detected with current technology, would require treating more than 2,600 wells at a cost of $750 million, plus about $34 million to treat surface water. Operating and maintenance costs for the more than 1,000 water systems would climb to $245 million each year.
 ''There's a significant cost difference in going from 10 to 2,'' said David Spath, chief of the health department's Division of Drinking Water and Environmental Management.
 The National Resources Defense Council wants the health department to set California's standard at three parts per billion, less than a third of the new federal standard.
 Cutting concentrations to parts per trillion, to currently undetectable trace levels, is a long-term objective that ''is not going to be met any time soon,'' the state E.P.A. assessment office spokesman, Allan Hirsch, said.
 Though arsenic occurs naturally, the cancer-causing agent is one of the most toxic substances commonly found in drinking water.
 It is found naturally not only in water, but also in the air and food and in soil and mineral deposits. Waste chemicals can also pollute drinking water with arsenic.
 The state E.P.A. was supposed to set its health goal by Jan. 1, 2003; the same law gives Health Services until June 30 to adopt a new arsenic standard.
 That's ''totally unrealistic,'' Mr. Spath said. The process usually takes a year.
 Dr. Solomon said, ''We certainly will be pushing them to meet that June deadline and to get to that goal as soon as possible.'' 
 The health goal delay was because of budget cuts and a preoccupation with developing standards for perchlorate, another contaminant, Mr. Hirsch said.
 Though the state's goal now greatly exceeds the federal standard, the federal E.P.A. has established an even loftier long-term public health goal: no arsenic in drinking water. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); TAX ASSESSORS (77%); CARCINOGENS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); CANCER (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



522 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Sex Videos On Pause, And Idled Actors Fret

BYLINE: By NICK MADIGAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
THE business of pornography is not for the fainthearted. When you have sex on camera for a living, be prepared to bare every freckle, cozy up to strangers under hot lights and feign passion on command.
 ''It's a job,'' said Jay Ashley, 33, who learned how to take orders as a marine during the Persian Gulf war before becoming a sex-video actor in 1992. ''I'm not out there being destructive, selling drugs or beating people. I came into this industry to make it my career.'' 
 What Mr. Ashley might not have anticipated was that, like his stint in the Marines, his new career might also be lethal. Mr. Ashley's is one of 53 names on a list of performers who were exposed directly or indirectly to two actors, Darren James and Lara Roxx, who were found to be infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. 
 The news has prompted a virtual shutdown of the sex-video industry for at least 60 days and has idled countless actors, producers, directors and crew members, many of them based in and around the suburban San Fernando Valley. 
 The potential economic consequences of the shutdown have unnerved some actors, who often portray their career choice as not so different from that of other Americans. ''They've got rent to pay, car payments,'' said Jill Kelly, a sex-film producer. ''Some of them have extravagant lifestyles.''
 The enforced hiatus is especially difficult for the men, who make less than their female counterparts. Women can average $5,000 to $8,000 a month, several times what most men earn. ''The whole business is all about the girls,'' Ms. Kelly said. ''The men are just there as a prop.''
 Nick Manning, 36, had started work on a film on April 13 when news of the shutdown came through. His restlessness was apparent. ''One more day without sex here,'' he said on Friday. ''It's ridiculous. We have nothing to do. Imagine if you couldn't work for an indefinite period of time. It's very odd for me.''
 Tim Myren, a talent booker, who runs the Naughty Modeling agency, said there had been panic in the ranks when the reality of the shutdown sank in. ''I had 18 girls calling me crying, all upset, saying, 'What do I do?' '' he recalled. ''So I'm trying to figure out some other things for them, like car shows and maybe shooting some solo stuff.''
 The publicity over the H.I.V. tests has beamed a spotlight on a largely undercover industry that every year produces about 4,000 titles and brings in $5 billion to $9 billion, according to Jack Kyser, the chief economist for the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. The higher number almost equals the $9.6 billion in tickets sales in the United States and Canada last year from mainstream Hollywood studios and independent productions.
 The sex-video shutdown is self-imposed, not mandated by a government agency and is typical of the vigilance the industry says it exercises over the health of its workers. Industry leaders point out that the rate of H.I.V. infection among pornographic actors is minuscule. Sharon Mitchell, director of the Adult Industry Medical Health Care Foundation, which tests 900 to 1,200 performers monthly, said that only 11 cases have been recorded here in the last seven years, out of hundreds of thousands of sexual contacts.
 People taking tests for H.I.V., chlamydia, gonorrhea and syphilis at the clinic, which is on Ventura Boulevard, are required to sign a waiver that allows disclosure of their names and test results under certain circumstances, like public health alerts. 
 Despite such precautions, some actors are now deciding whether their careers are worth the threat to their health. Mr. Manning said he had not envisaged when he moved to Los Angeles and entered the industry five years ago that he and his new colleagues would face such a problem. 
 ''I was never concerned about it till now,'' said Mr. Manning, a former human resources executive at Citigroup in New York, who was recruited off the street as a model. ''It makes you re-evaluate what you're doing.''
 Despite the crisis, the industry enjoys at least the tacit approval of Los Angeles officials, who bring in revenue by issuing the same filming permits to sex-film production companies as it dispenses to large Hollywood studios.
 Things have calmed down considerably since the early 1980's, when police officers with guns drawn sometimes burst into houses and apartments where pornographic films were being shot, handcuffing naked actors and invoking laws that governed pimping or hiring people for the purpose of sex. The use of those laws against the pornographic film industry was struck down by the California Supreme Court in 1985.
 Although local and state officials are once again speaking ominously of a regulatory crackdown -- including the possibility of inspections of film sets and production companies -- most actors, directors and producers appear upbeat and strongly defend their industry. They say the work is enjoyable, clean and shameless.
 ''I would say that working without condoms in the industry is less dangerous than going home with someone who you just met randomly in a bar and had a one-night stand with,'' said the actress Jessica Drake, who began her career as a stripper while in college in Texas and makes at least seven videos a year as a contract player for Wicked Pictures here.
 The crisis has forced an unusual cohesion among industry players.
 ''Friends, enemies -- everyone comes together in the adult industry when there's any kind of a problem like this,'' said Jim South, a talent agent with 31 years in the business. ''All politics are put aside.''
 In any event, he said, ''This is not an epidemic.''
 A small amount of filming is still going on since the start of the shutdown, mostly girl-and-girl and solo masturbation scenes -- anything that does not require male partners.
 ''There are lots of clever, creative people in the community, and they're finding ways to have sex without the exchange of fluids,'' said Ira Levine, a film director and editor of Taboo, one of Larry Flynt's pornographic magazines.
 Mr. Levine is one of the few directors who advocate condom use across the industry, despite widespread misgivings about the dislike of audiences for the practice. 
 Joy King, an executive at Wicked Pictures, which five years ago began to insist that its male actors wear condoms while filming, said: ''It's been a tough battle for us. People don't want to buy your product. It hasn't come without consequences, but we've stuck by it because we think it's the right thing to do.''
 Mr. Ashley, the former marine, said he did not usually wear a condom while filming, but always insisted on seeing his partner's certificate of health. ''I had a feeling I was on that list,'' he said, referring to the 53 names of possibly infected actors compiled by the industry health clinic. He attributed his inclusion to having had intercourse for a movie with a woman who had also worked with Mr. James, whose H.I.V. infection is thought to have originated while filming last month in Brazil. So far, only one of the 12 actresses who worked with Mr. James after his return, Ms. Roxx, has tested positive for H.I.V.
 Until Mr. Ashley hears the results of two separate tests, he is taking comfort in the theory that it is rare for a man to contract H.I.V. from a woman and said he intends to go back to work as soon as the quarantine is lifted.
 Meanwhile, he said, ''the fear factor isn't really there.'' His fiancee, Aurora Snow, 22, whom he met when they were cast to do a sex scene together four years ago, is a hostess on two Playboy TV shows, and Mr. Ashley, with some time on his hands, is, he said, ''helping out over there.'' 
 ''We're keeping busy -- it's just not sex,'' he said.
 Brooke Hunter, who was an accountant before becoming a sex-video performer seven years ago, said that everyone she knows in the industry ''is extremely concerned'' about the H.I.V. outbreak. ''We want to regulate ourselves and continue working as safely as possible,'' she said. 
 Ms. Hunter's husband, who calls himself Don Hollywood when working as an actor and director and uses his real name, Ronald Miller, in his other life as a criminal defense lawyer, said he would not return to work in the industry until it became clear what attempts at regulation, if any, the authorities would make. ''I'm an officer of the court, and I don't want to put myself in the position of violating the law,'' Mr. Miller said.
 For a few days after it was learned that Mr. James had contracted H.I.V. in the latest outbreak, he could not be found at home, although his car and wallet were there, a concerned friend said. Finally, he reappeared.
 ''He'd been out of town,'' said Tim Connelly, the publisher of Adult Video News, the industry's trade publication. ''He's back. He's O.K. He was ashamed and pained and sad.''
 Ms. Roxx, the other infected performer, who was new to the business, is believed to have returned to her native Canada.


GRAPHIC: Photos: RESTLESS -- Nick Manning broods about being out of work. Carmen Luvana, left, testing for H.I.V. in the industry's self-regulation. (Photo by Reuters)
(Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 2)
 SAFETY FIRST -- Don Hollywood and his wife, Brooke Hunter, sex-video performers, are concerned about H.I.V. and want to work as safely as possible. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); FILM (90%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); DESERT STORM (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); AIDS & HIV (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



523 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 7669 words

HEADLINE: The Multilevel Marketing of the President

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai is a contributing writer. He is covering the 2004 campaign for The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Republicans in Clark County, Ohio, held their annual Lincoln Day fund-raising dinner in February, at a rustic golf club surrounded by an ocean of farmland. Clark County, comprising both the city of Springfield and a block of agricultural townships, is one of those fast-disappearing places where Republican and Democratic voters are still more or less in balance. Al Gore won here in 2000, but by less than a percentage point. This year, Republicans have declared Clark to be one of their target counties. 
 I had come to the dinner to find Betty Kitchen, the white-haired, 66-year-old retiree who had been drafted to lead Bush's re-election campaign in Clark County. It was a job with which she was entrusted after years as a faithful and much-loved volunteer in various local campaigns. (''You'd think someone with that name could bake,'' David Gallagher, a party operative, told me as we drove the hour from Columbus. ''And she really can.'') In past Republican campaigns, state and county organizations were free to assemble their local efforts any way they liked, the assumption being that they knew more about their own communities than someone in Washington. But now the Bush campaign was sending an altogether different message; word had come down from the national headquarters that Ohio's 88 county chairmen were to form full steering committees in each county by February, and then they needed to show proof that they were busy recruiting a statewide total of 51,000 volunteers, including captains for each of the state's 12,000 voting precincts. It was a titanic assignment, and I wanted to ask Betty how things were going.
 I caught up with her near the fruit salad, made with a generous helping of mayonnaise. ''It's my fault we're behind,'' Betty confessed, her voice lowered to a whisper. ''When they asked me to be the county chair, I said, 'Well, sure.' Everybody does their turn, right? But I thought it would start in August or September, like it usually does. Not in February!''
 The Bush campaign, Betty said, instructed her to recruit 643 volunteers. Not 640 volunteers or 650, but 643. I wondered aloud what the big deal was. What would they do if she didn't hit her deadlines?
 ''Well, they can't fire you, right?'' she asked me, sounding uncertain. ''They can't fire a volunteer.''
 Later, after the chicken dinner and a short speech in which Betty pleaded with her neighbors for help with the campaign, I ran into Kevin DeWine, a state representative and a cousin of Ohio's senior senator, Mike DeWine, a Republican. I recounted my conversation with Betty. 
 ''That's the difference between 2000 and 2004,'' DeWine said. ''In 2000, they said, 'Yeah, sure, we'll use your local headquarters, whenever you can get it up and running, great.' This year, it's, 'Yeah, we'll use your headquarters, and we need it open right now, and we want phone banks and mailing lists, da-dah, da-dah, da-dah. . . . ' '' He ticked off imaginary demands on his fingers. ''I think it's because the president could lose, and they're nervous. And they should be.''
 The 2004 campaign is in most respects a sequel to the one that came before. The election in 2000 was a cliffhanger that narrowly resolved the issue of who would govern the nation but left open the question of which party could claim a majority. Part 2 begins with the presumption that most states are now either reliably red or reliably blue, even more so than they were four years ago, which means the election will most likely be decided in just a handful of pivotal swing states. Every vote matters, of course -- but in a place like Clark County, the votes matter a whole lot more.
For Karl Rove, the president's chief political adviser, and the rest of the Bush team, Ohio is beginning to look a lot like Florida without the oranges. The most recent polls show Bush and Kerry essentially tied there; according to the University of Cincinnati's Ohio Poll, Bush's approval rating in the state has dropped from a record 76 percent a year ago to 46 percent now. And it would be hard to imagine a world in which Bush could win the White House without winning Ohio (a feat, in fact, that no Republican has ever accomplished). As the election grows closer, the two sides, armed with hundreds of millions of dollars, will unleash a storm in Ohio so intense -- ads on every channel, knocks on every door, mailboxes and in-boxes overflowing -- that it could inspire a horror movie. Rove and his associates are known as a controlling bunch, and it has to be frustrating for them to know that so much of what could ultimately decide the race -- an ambush in Iraq, a spike in gas prices -- is entirely beyond their control. They crave something more empirical, some new formula with which to guarantee victory in November. And they think they've found it in the reassuringly hard data of street-level politics.
 Traditionally, it was the Democrats who went door-to-door, registering voters while the G.O.P., pressing its significant financial advantage, relied on 30-second ads and paid mailings. But Rove came away from the 2000 election convinced that Bush would have won by a comfortable margin had it not been for Democratic ground forces. (Although Bush won Ohio, his commanding lead in the polls -- 10 points on the final weekend -- drained away to a margin of fewer than 4 points on Election Day, when Democrats turned out in force.) During the midterm elections of 2002, Republicans successfully tested their own turnout strategy, which they called the 72-Hour Project. For 2004, Rove's team has devised the most ambitious grass-roots model in the party's history.
 Up close, what Bush is assembling on the local level looks less like a political campaign than what is known in business as a multilevel marketing scheme. In an MLM, like Mary Kay Cosmetics or Tupperware, each independent entrepreneur who joins the sales force -- a Betty Kitchen, say -- also becomes a recruiter who is responsible for bringing in several new entrepreneurs underneath her. The result is a pyramid-like sales structure that broadens to include more and more recruits with each descending level. 
 The notion of translating the MLM concept into politics is visionary -- and also a little disquieting. Pyramid-based companies have proved amazingly successful at raising up armies of enterprising Americans; Amway, the world's most successful MLM, has more than 3.6 million distributors. But some MLM's thrive by imposing their own strange and insular cultures on their recruits, and while they offer the illusion of self-employment, those at the top of the pyramid often demand a rigid kind of uniformity and loyalty. Amway has often been compared to a cult -- so often, in fact, that on its own Web site the company feels the need to answer such frequently asked questions as ''I've heard rumors that Amway is a cult; is this true?'' and ''Why do Amway meetings appear to some people like a cult?'' When I met with Ken Mehlman, Bush's campaign manager, in suburban Washington, and suggested that the Bush campaign could fairly be compared to Amway in its approach, he agreed without hesitation. ''Amway, no question,'' he said.
 By descending the levels of this newly created Bush pyramid, from its headquarters in Washington down to the doorsteps of the exurban town houses sprouting up all over Ohio, you can see not just the outlines of the 2004 campaign taking shape but also the emerging portrait of politics in a new century. As steel and coal have faded, so, too, have the great political machines those industries created in Ohio's cities. These urban strongholds, hit hardest by job losses, are the places where Democrats have long ruled the streets. But Republicans believe they can control a new, more promising demographic: the fast-growing, conservative communities just beyond the suburban sprawl, where tony malls are rising almost monthly out of fields and farmland. For Republicans, this means a whole new market of potential entrepreneurs to enlist and mobilize. If Bush can harness the power of the exurbs, he can create a kind of organization the country has not yet witnessed -- a political machine for the new economy.

I. The Plan
All the pressure bearing down on volunteers like Betty Kitchen emanates from an otherwise unremarkable office complex in Arlington, Va., a short jog across the Key Bridge from Washington. The Bush campaign offices are nothing like your average presidential campaign headquarters; there are no life-size posters of the candidate or haphazard piles of paper or kids in jeans shuffling around. With its orderly rows of beige cubicles and hanging fixtures emitting soft fluorescent light, the Bush office could just as easily be an insurance company or an investment firm.
 Ken Mehlman is, in many ways, a typical Bush acolyte: efficient, aggressive and literal to the point of seeming programmed. Mehlman, a 37-year-old Harvard-trained lawyer, ran the White House political office for his mentor, Karl Rove, before moving across the river last May to direct the campaign. He told me he speaks with or exchanges e-mail with Rove several times a day. No one who has spent any real time with Mehlman doubts his brilliance, but it's also clear that Rove is the lead architect of the re-election strategy -- or, as it would be called in Amway lingo, the Plan.
 When Mehlman talks about the volunteer component of the Plan, he does so with the fervor of an apostle. To hear Mehlman tell it, the Bush volunteers -- there are, at last count, 361,575 of them -- are a harbinger of a new day in American politics, one when ordinary voters will reconnect to the process in meaningful ways. (It was a little disorienting to hear a button-down Republican talk this way; if there had been a few Diet Pepsi cans strewn around the office, I might have thought I was listening to a sermon from Joe Trippi, Howard Dean's former campaign manager.) 
 Mehlman explained that Bush volunteers, in consultation with headquarters, set their own goals for their states and counties, and thus had a sense of ownership in the campaign. He said this new kind of grass-roots campaign sprang from the same lofty impulse as ''Survivor'' or ''American Idol.'' ''The lessons of reality TV are that people today are into participatory activities,'' he said. ''They want to have influence over a decision that's made. They don't want to just sit and passively absorb. They want to be involved, and a political program ought to recognize that.''
 Even so, I asked, why would a volunteer like Betty Kitchen endure so many demands?
 ''It's love and belief in the importance of the president,'' Mehlman told me earnestly. ''You can't, in politics and in almost anything you do, force people to do anything. You have to persuade them. They have to want to do it. That's why we do it this way. You're not following my orders. It's our orders. It's our effort.''
 Mehlman's preoccupation with free labor might seem odd, since the Bush campaign is the single most lavishly financed election effort ever to grace the planet. From his swivel chair high above the Virginian suburbs, Mehlman controls a sleek and flexible arsenal of the most effective weapons in contemporary politics: high-impact TV ads, precision polling, laser-guided direct mail. Like their Democratic rivals, Republicans have added a massive new database that can track every facet of a voter's profile, and they are honing their skills in ''microtargeting,'' which should enable the party to hunt down likely Republican voters using all kinds of consumer data. With all this costly gadgetry at Mehlman's disposal, I wondered, why is he losing sleep over how many volunteers have signed on in Clark County? 
 What Democrats have long understood, however, and what Rove and Mehlman have, since 2000, come to grasp as well, is that street-level politics creates a kind of surround-sound effect that can be decisive in a close election. Come the fall, whatever 30-second message the Bush team decides to spread in its latest TV ad or mailing -- ''Bush will keep us safe,'' for instance, or ''Kerry wants to raise your taxes and send the money to France'' -- will be reinforced immediately by volunteers fanning out across their neighborhoods, talking points in hand. In other words, when you have a successful grass-roots machine, you can get more leverage from each dollar you spend on the other facets of your campaign. 
 Democrats have traditionally relied on the manpower of unions and local machines to register voters and get them to the polls. This year they are getting a huge infusion of help from the independently financed groups that are raising tens of millions of dollars for get-out-the-vote efforts. The most influential of these, America Coming Together -- which is run by Steve Rosenthal, a former A.F.L.-C.I.O. political director, and paid for largely by the liberal financier George Soros -- has already registered, by its own count, some 30,000 new voters in Ohio, about as many as the Bush camp has managed thus far. (Some of ACT's paid canvassers are laid-off steelworkers.) Republicans have more than enough money to compete with this kind of program, but they don't have a platoon of longtime professional organizers ready to go to work. So, as they surveyed the landscape after the 2000 race, Rove and Mehlman decided that their best asset was their volunteers.
 Rove and Mehlman gleaned a critical lesson from the 2002 Congressional and 2003 gubernatorial elections, Mehlman told me excitedly: the way to build a grass-roots movement is to get one volunteer to recruit several other volunteers, and so on, so that the organization is constantly growing, feeding off itself. The campaign provided various ways for people to volunteer, he said, and ''the big thing that brings them all together is viral activity.'' 
 The viral method not only resembles Howard Dean's campaign; it also mirrors the marketing philosophy behind Amway. And just as Amway sells its new distributors ''the Toolbox,'' which contains all the necessary books and motivational materials to get you immersed in Amway culture, so, too, does the Bush campaign have its own kind of toolbox for recruits. It includes ''7 Steps to 72-Hour Success,'' a brochure that shows you how to create your very own ''magic chart,'' a color-coded time line for every activity in the campaign.
 Another of the seven steps is to recruit Bush Team Leaders, or B.T.L.'s, as the campaign sometimes refers to them. These are volunteers who are given prizes, like a signed note from the president, for accomplishing six specific tasks, the first of which is to recruit five other B.T.L.'s. Volunteers are also rewarded (with ''a presidential screen-saver'') for calling in to talk radio programs or writing letters to the editor on behalf of the president. ''Train volunteers in each of the '7 Steps,' '' the brochure commands. ''They will be the implementers.'' 
 What seemed to excite Mehlman most was that the program yielded hard figures. He held up a piece of paper -- ''I won't let you read it,'' he told me -- which he said was his weekly status report on the Ohio campaign: how many B.T.L.'s they had signed up, how many precinct captains had been identified, how many new voters had been registered. 
 ''We're not imposing this on people,'' Mehlman said. ''But this campaign is more focused than most on measurement. If I have one kind of belief or philosophy, it's that hope is not a strategy. And so you can't say, 'I hope we'll get this done.' We want to see what you're getting done.''

II. The Upline
From Mehlman's office atop the pyramid, the campaign breaks down into 11 regions of the country, each of which has a volunteer chairman who, in turn, oversees chairmen in each of the 50 states.
 The chairwoman of the Ohio Valley region is Jo Ann Davidson, a former speaker of the Ohio House of Representatives. Technically, Davidson is responsible for building grass-roots organizations in Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky and West Virginia. In reality, however, her focus is on building the network in her home state, which is to the Bush campaign the most important of the four. 
 Davidson sits atop what would be known in Amway as Ohio's ''upline'': the chain of distributors that leads up from any one Amway enterprise to the top of the pyramid. The 76-year-old Davidson, who tools around Columbus in a Sebring convertible, likes to describe herself as the campaign's ''No. 1 volunteer.'' When I first met her in February, she said she spoke or e-mailed with aides in Arlington at least once a day, often well after business hours. She explained to me how she had begun to execute the Plan in Ohio. 
 First, Davidson recruited 15 regional chairmen for different areas of the state. Then she signed up a chairman for each of Ohio's 88 counties, who reported to the regional chairmen. Now the county chairmen were in the process of naming steering committees and finding captains to organize individual voting precincts. (A precinct, which comprises all the people who are assigned to vote at a single polling place, may have anywhere from just a few dozen voters to more than 1,000.) The national campaign has given Ohio the overall goal of signing up 51,000 volunteers, based on a formula of one volunteer for every 50 voters, and registering 91,000 new voters. 
 In the months leading up to the Republican convention in August, these county organizations will act as a kind of industrial-strength vacuum, gathering up useful information and passing it through the upline to the campaign. Information on every new volunteer is sucked into the campaign's database. In addition to the regular county structure, the campaign is also pulling together 19 volunteer coalitions in Ohio: Farmers for Bush, Steelworkers for Bush and so on. Most of these coalitions have their own chairman in every county, and their mission in these early months is to provide the campaign with lists. The pro-life coalition will send church rosters from their respective counties; the steelworkers will furnish union rolls. These names, too, are added to the database, so they can be pursued closer to Election Day with mailings, phone calls and e-mail messages that speak to their issues.
 As the fall campaign approaches, someone in Arlington will flip a switch, and the suction will change direction; information will now move primarily from headquarters down to the volunteers. Canvassers in each county will await the message of the day from the campaign, and then, like suburban Paul Reveres, they'll be off to get the word out, by foot or by phone. In the final days of the campaign, the network will be up and running virtually around the clock, making sure Republicans in each precinct show up to vote.
 The campaign will use this same precinct-by-precinct design in more than a dozen so-called battleground states, including such critical theaters as Missouri, Florida and Pennsylvania. (If you're lucky enough to live in a less competitive state like Massachusetts or Utah, you'll be spared all the door-knocking and toxic TV ads.) Ohio is the site of the earliest and most intense effort. Already, the campaign has begun holding training sessions for its Ohio volunteers, which are designed to introduce them to the Plan and which have the general feel of a motivational workshop. ''No one is going to walk up to you and say, 'Can I help George W. Bush?' '' Dewey Stokes, the county commissioner for Franklin County, told about 100 volunteers at one of these sessions. ''You have to ask. Why are you all here tonight? Because someone asked you. You've got friends, relatives, co-workers -- ask them to help.'' 
 The more time I spent with these volunteer leaders, the more apparent it became that, despite Mehlman's ''Free to Be . . . You and Me'' rhetoric, they were not, in fact, empowered to make even minuscule adjustments to the Plan. In fact, the campaign was conducted entirely by conference calls -- among regional chairmen, county chairmen, coalition chairmen -- that enabled aides at headquarters in Virginia to direct virtually every facet of the Ohio strategy. Each chairman was given his ''confidential'' manual containing diagrams of precisely how his flow chart and his steering committee would look, and any changes had to be submitted to the campaign for approval.
 At one point, when Davidson set up a meeting for me with the executive director of the campaign in Ohio, aides in Virginia overruled her and ordered the executive director not to show up. When I relayed this to Davidson, who is an exceptionally shrewd and disciplined politician, she simply half-smiled in a kind, knowing way. She seemed to understand that these were not her decisions to make. The way Davidson explained it, she mainly acted as a buffer between the national campaign and the volunteer leaders on the ground. Some days, she said, that meant trying to get Mehlman's people to ''back off a bit''; more often, it meant leaning on some county chairman to get his numbers up. 
 ''My job is to put the Ohio feel on it,'' she told me. ''Hopefully, I put that personal touch on it, so it doesn't get to be just, 'This is what someone in Arlington, Va., is telling you to do.' I'm saying, 'This is important to Ohio.' '' 
That the Bush team deliberately chose Davidson as the public face of its campaign in Ohio hints at the deep anxiety underlying this year's race. Under normal circumstances, that role should belong to the campaign's Ohio state chairman, Robert Taft, the two-term Republican governor. Instead, Taft has largely been relegated to the background. His popularity has plummeted in the past few years as Ohio has lost more than 200,000 jobs, most of them in the manufacturing sector. Fairly or not, Taft, a friend of the president's, has come to symbolize all the realities of Ohio from which Bush must distance himself if he is to win.
 Bush has worked to counter the impression that he is indifferent to the suffering in Ohio, visiting the state no fewer than 15 times as president. But steelworkers haven't forgiven him for rolling back tariffs on foreign steel, and there are at least three manufacturing companies that tried and failed to get the Bush administration to impose penalties against foreign competitors after the United States International Trade Commission ruled against the foreign firms. I called one of those plants, CHC Industries, a garment-hangers manufacturer just outside of Cleveland. The man who answered, a facility manager named Bob Maloney, told me the plant had closed; he was the last employee left. Chinese competitors with cheap labor, he said, drove the company into bankruptcy. ''Anybody who worked here would be highly unlikely to vote for Bush,'' he said before hanging up. 
 It's not surprising, then, that while Kerry lags far behind Bush in organizing his Ohio campaign, Democrats don't seem too concerned about the emerging Bush pyramid. ''I don't care how many people they register,'' said Dennis L. White, the Democratic state chairman. ''They're still in trouble.'' 
 Like Florida or Missouri, Ohio is one of those states, inherently neither blue nor red, that seems to have gathered within its borders all the variant strains of American life. The northern part of the state -- including the Rust Belt cities of Cleveland, Toledo and Youngstown -- is mostly industrial and Democratic. The central region -- anchored by Columbus, the state's capital and largest city -- has a white-collar, suburban character and trends Republican. Southern Ohio, meanwhile, has the bluegrass feel of its rural neighbors to the south, Kentucky and West Virginia. The Cincinnati area, in the southwest corner, is one of the country's few metro areas that can be called reliably Republican, while in the southeastern region, along a curving spine of Appalachian coal country, economic hardship abounds, and voters tend to swing toward whichever party promises change.
 Just about any Republican who has worked on a statewide campaign in Ohio can recite the traditional G.O.P. formula for winning the state. Bob Bennett, the longtime chairman of the Ohio Republican Party, first outlined it for me, using his fingers to sketch an imaginary map: in the north, you need to hold your losses in Cuyahoga County, dominated by Cleveland, to a margin of less than 150,000 votes; in central Ohio, you need to win Franklin County, which includes Columbus; and in the southwest, you have to turn out huge numbers of voters in the suburban counties around Cincinnati.
 In 2000, however, the old math proved to be just that -- old. Bush got slammed in Cuyahoga by 166,000 votes, he narrowly lost Franklin and his turnout in the Cincinnati suburbs was lower than expected. Bennett and other Republican leaders were stunned into silence when the numbers began trickling in. What saved Bush in Ohio, as in the rest of the country, were all the tiny rural counties that voted for him en masse. His most significant gains came in the Appalachian counties, which had voted twice for Bill Clinton. In fact, of the 23 Ohio counties that switched parties between 1996 and 2000, every last one of them voted for Bush, and more than half of those counties were in the southeast.
 If you're Ken Mehlman, none of this bodes well for 2004. Given the anti-Bush fervor among Democrats, Republicans expect to fare even worse in the cities this year than they did four years ago. And with all the blue-collar job losses Ohio has endured, it will be harder for Bush to rely on the rural counties that bailed him out last time, even if the economy is rebounding elsewhere. 
 Republicans, of course, have a time-honored way of winning in places like Appalachia when the economic issues are against them: they focus on divisive cultural issues instead. Larry Householder, the Republican speaker of the Ohio House, explained why this worked as we drove through Perry County, where he lives, on the northern edge of Appalachia. ''A lot of these folks are registered Democrats, but when it comes down to issues like abortion, they'll vote Republican,'' he said. ''In the last election, you had folks who had their United Mine Workers sticker on one side of their truck, their N.R.A. sticker on the other side and their George W. Bush sticker on the back.''
 This is why gay marriage is likely to become a prime topic in states like Ohio, which passed a controversial defense-of-marriage law earlier this year. Although it is often said that issues like abortion and gay marriage are important to Republicans because they mobilize evangelical Christians and other base voters, the more complicated truth is that they are often crucial to winning over swing voters in rural counties, who tend to be economically anxious but also socially conservative.
 Bush, however, won't overcome the state's economic angst this year simply by caricaturing Kerry as just another lesbian-loving liberal. Mathematically, the only way for Bush to carry Ohio is to drive up turnout in some of the staunchly Republican ''ring counties'' around Cincinnati and Columbus. Because these rapidly expanding rural areas have the potential to cancel out a lot of Democratic votes in the northern cities, Ohio Republicans call them ''make-up counties.'' To the rest of us, they're known as the exurbs.

III. The Go-Getter
Driving north from Columbus on Route 23, you pass rows of wilting two-story homes, a few scattered warehouses, a suburban green. You hit a brand-new stretch of wide asphalt that seems to be taking you nowhere at 50 miles per hour. Then, suddenly, it's Starbucks and Wal-Mart and modular houses flying up faster than the ground can be turned. Down Polaris Parkway, which was a little-used road a few years ago, there's now a giant mall, a Fidelity Investments outlet, Saks Fifth Avenue, the tinted windows of new office buildings. This is Delaware County, population 133,000 and exploding. Delaware is the fastest-growing county in Ohio and the 16th-fastest-growing in the country. It has expanded by 30 percent just since the last presidential election.
 From a political standpoint, what's interesting is not just the rate of growth in Delaware and a dozen or so other ring counties in Ohio, but what kind of voters are moving in from downtown or out of state. In the southern part of Delaware County, which includes the northern limit of Columbus, golf courses are gobbling up the land, and million-dollar homes are proliferating. There's a church, it seems, every hundred yards. Republicans outnumber Democrats here six to one, and, in fact, Delaware has voted solidly Republican in the last 10 presidential elections. Delaware adores George W. Bush.
 The campaign's Delaware County chairman is Todd Hanks, the 37-year-old county auditor. When I went to see him at the shiny new Rutherford B. Hayes county building in early March, I noticed that on every computer in the audit department, the same screen-saver was scrolling past: ''Since 3/28/03, $1,237,765 has been saved through programs implemented by this office. Last week, Shari Baker saved $274.04 for the taxpayers of Delaware County.'' Hanks, an irrepressibly buoyant man with reddish brown hair and thick glasses, explained that Baker had come up with the idea to replace the transcribers at budget commission hearings with a tape recorder. Somewhere in town, I imagined, a stenographer was plotting her revenge.
 Hanks said that the county delivered 66 percent of its vote for Bush in 2000. Until recently, this would have been considered a ridiculously high yield in any election, but in fact it is no longer so unusual. Just as the country has divided, so that most states now firmly belong to one party or another, so, too, have individual counties come to look more lopsided than before. In Ohio, each party's gains in its most reliable counties necessitate similar gains for the other party, so that Republicans and Democrats are forever engaged in a kind of frenzied arms race; since Bush will most likely lose by impossibly high margins in Cleveland and Toledo, he will need to win by still higher percentages in growing counties like Delaware. For Hanks, the message from above is clear: 66 percent isn't a goal to be repeated. It is a base line from which to improve.
 Hanks is the kind of affable, self-made entrepreneur for whom MLM's are forever searching; Amway recruiters would call him a ''go-getter.'' Over slices of cold apple pie at a local diner, Hanks told me how, just five years ago, he was keeping the books at his father's used-car dealership and passing his nights in front of the TV. He took his wife's advice and went back to school, studying business on weekends, and wound up with a job selling nuts and bolts. He ran successfully for City Council, was elected vice mayor, a part-time job that paid $6,500 a year, and then became auditor. Now he's running unopposed for another term as auditor, on a record that includes almost doubling the revenue from dog tags.
 When a go-getter buys into Amway, he makes, in effect, a deal. Much of his profit flows back to the top of the pyramid. In exchange, however, the new distributor gets to own his own business, and he has the opportunity to enrich himself by recruiting a ''downline'' of Amway salesmen who kick a percentage of their profits back up to him. 
 The same is essentially true for Hanks, who was recommended for the chairman's post by one of his patrons in the local party. While he told me he was putting in long days and nights because he believes in the president, Hanks readily admitted that his ultimate goal is to rise through the ranks of local and maybe even state politics. This was clear enough when he took me to the county's Lincoln Day dinner in March; Hanks wasn't allowed to address the gathering because his name is on this year's ballot, so he took up a post outside the ballroom and created his very own receiving line. ''I'm not supposed to be here,'' he whispered to me in between greeting guests, ''but I am.''
 For Hanks, the Bush campaign offers a chance to recruit a ''downline'' of new volunteers who will, ideally, remain loyal to him in future campaigns -- including his own. And, of course, it is an opportunity to be noticed. ''I hope that if I'm successful, I'll be rewarded,'' Hanks said, ''or at least acknowledged.''
 The weight of running the campaign in a county as critical as Delaware might crush a less motivated man. Hanks told me he began building his organization by recruiting his precinct captains and his steering committee -- a volunteer in charge of yard signs, another in charge of voter registration and so on -- in precisely the way the Plan instructs. But then he got a call from Darrin Klinger, the campaign's executive director in Columbus, who sounded aggravated.
 ''Where are your reports?'' Klinger demanded. ''Why does Delaware have all these zeros next to it?''
 Hanks said he had been faithfully keeping his own list of volunteers and phone banks, but he hadn't sent them in because he didn't want to inundate the campaign with constant memos.
 '' 'No, inundate us,' '' Hanks recalled Klinger telling him. '' 'We have to give our numbers to Washington every Saturday, so send whatever you've got.' '' From then on, Hanks began filing his updates daily if necessary.
 From the campaign's perspective, a young, unschooled chairman like Hanks is probably preferable to a more established figure in the party. Like so many small counties, Delaware places a certain value on respect and propriety, and some of the old-timers find the Bush team a shade presumptuous. A few months ago, for instance, when the campaign asked the county's Republican chairman, Jeff Burkam, to open a campaign office eight months before the election, Burkam said it wasn't going to happen.
 But Hanks, more eager to please, did all he could to reassure the anxious campaign. ''Look, we'll get you your votes,'' he told a campaign official. ''It may not always be the way you want us to. We're a little quirky up here, but we'll get you your votes.''

IV. The Prospector
For all its detailed mathematics and its exacting time lines, the Plan wouldn't mean much in exurban counties if all these new Republican voters I kept hearing about wouldn't answer their doors. So a few days after my conversation with Todd Hanks, I spent a raw, slate-gray Saturday about 10 miles to the south, in a newly developed stretch of Franklin County, with a volunteer named Jim Ashenhurst. Ashenhurst, 58, is a retired Army colonel who used to specialize in combat engineering, and now he works as a political appointee for the state fire marshal. (He was a volunteer on the governor's campaign.) On weekends, Ashenhurst becomes an explorer on the Republican frontier.
 Ashenhurst is the captain of the precinct where he lives, which means he resides at the base of the Bush leadership pyramid. But the colonel is also the voter-registration coordinator for Franklin County, and it is that role to which he has devoted himself in these early months of the campaign. Just as small Amway distributors ''prospect'' for new recruits to the Plan, so does the colonel go prospecting for undiscovered votes.
 The clusters of new rental town houses going up in Franklin and Delaware counties, still fresh with the scent of painted lumber, have created for Republicans what the colonel, drawing on his military career, likes to call ''a target-rich environment.'' Our first stop was a development called Times Square Apartments. As we approached the first set of doors, I mentioned to Ashenhurst that I was heartened to see quaint little stores thriving near the entrance, like Old Stuff Antiques and the Casual Gourmet. 
 ''Oh, those stores aren't real,'' he said with a smile, and when I looked closer, I saw that he was right. They were merely decorative store windows, a few feet deep at most, designed to create for residents the warm aura of a bustling town center. Later, when we drove across the road to ''the Farms,'' where Ashenhurst lives, I was surprised to find that the horses peering out over white picket fences were in fact not horses at all, but rusted re-creations. There was an inescapable political undertone to this new town-house culture. The developers had designed communities of white nostalgia -- theme parks for the conservative middle class.
 On this morning, the colonel had come, clipboard under his arm, with the goal of registering 10 new voters, which would count toward the goal of 6,450 that the campaign had set for the county. (Volunteers get points for every voter they register, and these points can be redeemed on the Bush campaign Web site for hats or mugs.) Ashenhurst said he carried the clipboard everywhere he went, and if he saw a moving van by the side of the road in a Republican-rich neighborhood, he would pull over and see if the person was moving in and wanted to register. ''Voter registration isn't just a weekend activity,'' he told me. ''It really is a way of life.''
 In Ohio, voters don't register with a party, and canvassers are not supposed to ask about a person's political leanings before registering him. But in a country where cultural trends are now so tightly linked to party affiliation, it isn't hard for Ashenhurst and other Bush canvassers to figure out where they can find like-minded voters: gun shows, rodeos and, as in this case, new upscale developments. (''If you drive past a union hall,'' Ashenhurst tells other canvassers, ''keep on driving.'') The computerized sheet on Ashenhurst's clipboard told him that the precinct we were in had given 70 percent of its votes to Bush in 2000.
 The residents who answered their doors tended to be young and new to the area, working in telecommunications or marketing. In the town-house apartments with their fake storefronts and horses, there wasn't a hint of the economic apprehension rippling through industrial Ohio. 
 ''I have to say that for all this talk about George Bush ruining the economy,'' Ashenhurst said, ''I don't know a single person who's unemployed. I've yet to go out to a restaurant where there isn't a line waiting for tables.'' What really mattered, he said, is that ''deep down, George Bush really is a good person.'' 
 The colonel told me he couldn't respect a man, like John Kerry, who had so vocally opposed a war while other men continued to fight it. But as with other volunteers I met, there was, in Ashenhurst's disdain, a notable dispassion. The actual politics of the election didn't seem to interest them all that much. From the ground, the campaign as it is being fought in Washington seems like an abstraction -- a parallel line moving along the same axis, but far out of sight. The volunteers are more concerned with meeting their quotas of yard signs and bumper stickers.
 As the campaign rolls on toward November, the distance between these two lines on the graph will inevitably shorten, until, sometime before Election Day, the politics and the planning will intersect. At that point, it may take just hours, or even minutes, for the latest jousting in Washington to filter down to Ashenhurst, whose job it will be to make sure voters in his precinct get the party line as quickly as possible.
 Ashenhurst, it turned out, once sold sports apparel, in between his two Army stints, and his personality seemed to me more suited to sales than engineering. In the weeks I spent in Ohio, I ran into him at several Republican events around Columbus, and each time, I had the impression that he knew everyone in the room. He laughed a lot. It seemed he was usually the last to leave.
 ''This is my hobby,'' said the colonel, who is twice divorced. ''And hopefully, someday, when I retire, it'll keep me mentally alert and alive. Most of my social circle now revolves around politics. It's where my friends are.'' 
 This overtly social view of politics made Ashenhurst a fearless door knocker. He approached every apartment with the conviction that on the other side of the door stood not only a new recruit, but also an undiscovered friend. 
 ''Can't I just do this at the D.M.V.?'' one woman asked Ashenhurst on the day I went door-to-door with him. She had been asleep and clearly would have preferred to stay that way.
 ''You can,'' he answered, smiling. ''But then I wouldn't get credit for it. And you wouldn't want that to happen to me, would you?''
 She mumbled something and closed the door. Ashenhurst made a loony face and moved on.
 Ashenhurst watched for the telltale signs of reliably Republican voters. Golf clubs in the hallway, American flags out front -- these were indicators that he should ask a voter if he had any interest in volunteering for the campaign. ''A BMW,'' he said, eyeing the car outside one unit. ''Always a good sign.''
 At another door, a black woman who had just moved from the West Coast took the registration form and retreated into her apartment to fill it out. 
 ''A black woman from California,'' Ashenhurst muttered, as if he'd been the victim of a cruel hoax. ''Oh, yeah, there's a Republican.'' He shrugged fatalistically. ''Well, you never know.''
 After three hours of this, our hands red and numb from the cold, the colonel and I retreated to the local Bob Evans for some lunch. Our waitress, Malinda, smiled when she saw us; she had served us breakfast as well. ''You know why we came back?'' Ashenhurst asked. ''I forgot to ask you an important question. Are you registered to vote?''
 ''No, I'm not,'' Malinda answered. ''I'm 25, and I've never voted. My roommate yelled at me. But you know, I work two jobs, I go to school, I watch somebody's kids. . . . ''
 ''Well, I'm going to change that,'' Ashenhurst said. Malinda flopped down in our booth and filled out Ashenhurst's 15th form of the day. When she left, I asked Ashenhurst why he thought she was a Republican.
 ''Anybody who does all that and works that hard,'' the colonel replied, ''has to be a Republican.''
The political machines of the 20th century were, effectively, networking hubs. Urban life was a disorderly collision of imported cultures, and the old Democratic ward bosses doled out coveted public jobs and created cohesive social cliques. In many cities, these rusty machines still function; in 2000, remarkably, there were six Cleveland precincts in which Bush did not collect a single vote. But the local Democratic club is one of those vanishing vestiges of city life, like the trolley and the automat, and City Hall, in most cases, no longer controls the kind of inflated payroll that can instill obedience in a hungry populace. The union jobs that once bound workers to the party machine have been draining away for decades. In 1950's Ohio, something like 40 percent of workers were unionized; today, it's 17 percent and falling.
 In many ways, the Bush grass-roots campaign is the next iteration of the same idea. Todd Hanks is drawn to the effort because he thinks it will further his career, just as Colonel Ashenhurst values its ready-made social network. To watch them recruit new voters and volunteers in exurban town houses, cajoling one neighbor at a time, is to imagine how it might have looked to see the Democratic ward bosses organize their tenements in the days of Tammany Hall. The comparison suggests a vision of the future: win or lose, a lasting political organization could well be the legacy of the Bush pyramid. It's not unrealistic to think that these new precinct-by-precinct county organizations in fledgling communities all over America may endure long after Karl Rove has retired to lead seminars at a Texas university.
 In the short term, however, Rove and Mehlman have a more immediate priority: to hold on to the White House. And they are convinced that in order to do that, even with $180 million and all the advantages of incumbency on their side, they will have to make the Amway campaign work in November. There's little doubt that the grass-roots effort this fall will be the best Republicans have ever unleashed on the street. The question is whether there is enough motivational technique in the universe to create a volunteer force that can compete with Big Labor and its companion groups. After all, for every Hanks and Ashenhurst, who are among the most dedicated volunteers in the campaign's most organized state, you would expect to find 10 volunteers who are less resolved, less resourceful and less patient with the campaign's constant demands. And even if the volunteers themselves exceed expectations, it's worth remembering that, unlike unions or City Halls, this new kind of machine has nothing tangible to offer to voters -- no jobs or wage increases. Bush's machine relies solely, in Mehlman's words, on ''love and belief in the importance of the president.'' No union boss would bank his future on that.
 Already, there are signs that some of the campaign's innovations are meeting with less than stunning success on the ground. Originally, volunteers were supposed to canvass with Palm Pilots so they could keep track of each voter's interests and feed the information back to the Republican database. But Ohio Republicans recently told me they might back away from the plan, because volunteers weren't comfortable asking all those intrusive questions. Similarly, they said the Ohio campaign had effectively stopped trying to recruit volunteers as Bush Team Leaders, because too many voters were put off by the daunting list of tasks they would be asked to perform. 
 Still, the Ohio volunteers I met were resolved to do their part for the president, even if they occasionally harbored doubts about the wisdom of the Plan. Not long ago, I called Betty Kitchen in Clark County to see if she was making progress. She was. In fact, Betty sounded more relaxed.
 ''I probably, myself, put in an hour of worry every day,'' she said. ''But I'm a little more comfortable than I was before, now that I've got people to really commit to the steering committee. We just have to get some people to get more people. We just have to get this pyramid under way.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the campaign pyramid's base, the door knocker: Jim Ashenhurst, precinct captain.
Betty Kitchen, the volunteer heading the re-election campaign in Clark County, with Dan Harkins, local party chairman.
Todd Hanks, right, campaign chairman for Delaware County, speaking to the Agricultural Coalition for Bush. John Regula, a farmer, cheers him on.
 At the apex of the Ohio pyramid: Jo Ann Davidson, campaign chairwoman of the Ohio Valley region. (Photographs by Gillian Laub)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: AL GORE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



524 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Attacked, Expelled, Ignored

BYLINE: By Nicholas D. Kristof

 BODY:
The Darfur region of western Sudan is one of the most remote and inhospitable places on earth, which makes it an ideal place to get away with ethnic cleansing. Since late last year, an Arab militia called the Janjaweed has killed thousands of darker-skinned non-Arabs and driven about one million from their homes. 
Most of the refugees are still in Sudan, many of them in squalid camps, the children dying of malnutrition and measles. An additional 110,000 refugees have crossed into Chad. Even there they are not safe: the Janjaweed regularly raid across the border.
 The killing here is not about religion, as it is elsewhere in Sudan. It is largely about race and ethnicity -- and the age-old tension between nomadic herdsmen and settled farmers. A low-level rebellion began in Darfur a year ago, backed by some of the local tribespeople. The government responded by arming the Janjaweed, paying them and giving them helicopter support in scorched-earth operations intended to empty the countryside.
 After President Bush, Kofi Annan and others spoke out earlier this month against the ethnic cleansing, Sudan agreed to a cease-fire in Darfur and promised humanitarian access to the victims. But the State Department has suggested that Sudan breached the cease-fire on its first day, and the United States Agency for International Development says that even in the best of circumstances -- even if the fighting stops -- 100,000 people in Darfur will die of disease and malnutrition. Meanwhile, the world seemed to spend more time observing the 10th anniversary of the Rwandan genocide and solemnly vowing ''never again'' than actually doing something to prevent a recurrence in Darfur. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: In the Darfur region of Sudan, refugees flee the Janjaweed militia. (Photograph by Francesco Zizola
 Magnum Photos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); REFUGEES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); GENOCIDE (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); MALNUTRITION (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (88%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); RWANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



525 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1; FILM

LENGTH: 2488 words

HEADLINE: The Festival That Ate Manhattan

BYLINE: By REBECCA TRAISTER. 
Rebecca Traister is a staff writer at the online magazine Salon.

 BODY:
SEVERAL weeks ago, the organizers of the third annual TriBeCa Film Festival realized that they had a scheduling problem: they had planned an outdoor movie screening for the evening of May 6, during the very same moment NBC would be broadcasting the final episode of ''Friends.'' ''Why be in competition with 'Friends'?'' said Jane Rosenthal, the movie producer who is one of the festival's four co-founders. So the screening was moved to another evening. In its place, on the same outdoor screen, the ''Friends'' episode will be broadcast.
 Film festivals -- known for black-clad audiences, velvet-rope attitude and insider-deal-brokering -- don't usually bend over backward to accommodate laugh-tracked sitcoms. But the TriBeCa Film Festival is used to this kind of cheerful accommodation. In its inaugural year, the director George Lucas told Robert De Niro, another of the festival's co-founders, that he would be willing to preview ''Attack of the Clones,'' the upcoming ''Star Wars'' installment, at the festival but warned that the movie might not be completed in time. According to Craig Hatkoff, Ms. Rosenthal's husband and another festival co-founder, his wife's immediate reaction was, ''Well, move the festival.'' They did. 
 Such pragmatic, populist decisions help explain how the TriBeCa Film Festival has become one of the fastest-growing cultural institutions in New York. This year's festival, budgeted at $15 million and featuring 250 feature-length and short films over nine days, will begin on May 1. Around the same time, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation is expected to announce its decision about which cultural institutions will participate in a new cultural center planned for ground zero -- and the film festival, which has been short-listed as a potential programmer for the space, will likely play a role. It is expanding with such alacrity and brawn that it's sometimes hard to remember that it is only two years old, or that one of this year's biggest draws will be a screening of the shamelessly lightweight Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen adolescent caper movie, ''New York Minute.''
 Unlike the many film festivals that have started in obscurity and only slowly developed a cachet, TriBeCa began with a flash of celebrity. The festival's founding goal was to lure New Yorkers back downtown, to reinvigorate the neighborhood's economy and spirits after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Working quickly, and following a primary mission that was civic rather than artistic, the organizers came up with a festival that might be described as quirkily broad -- or hopelessly unfocused. How else to explain a program that last year featured a sing-along to ''Grease,'' and this year will include an original copy of the Declaration of Independence on display at Federal Hall? ''It's hard to describe how it all fits together,'' said Mr. Hatkoff. ''But it's very much -- throw 27 different ideas an hour, two stick, 25 we throw out.''
 To the organizers, the festival's lack of focus is its strongest suit, giving it a popular appeal that more-established institutions lack. ''Every place has a women's film festival, and a Jewish film festival, and a Latino film festival, which are all very important,'' said Peter Scarlet, the festival's executive director. ''We have a festival that can bring everyone into the tent.'' He continued: ''We are committed to overcoming the sense that a film festival is a wholesale experience, where you have to be a member of that trade to get in. This is retail. You can walk in off the street.''
 Robert De Niro agreed. ''We have always been about being a serious festival,'' he said, ''but one that's not taking itself too seriously, where it becomes elitist or snobbish or super-serious.''
 Ms. Rosenthal said: ''The festival reflects what the city is. So if you're interested in that midnight movie you can do that, but if you prefer to hear Marty Scorsese talk about music in the movies, you can do that, and if you want to go to the Mary-Kate and Ashley movie with your 10-year-old you can do that too.''
 If the TriBeCa festival's power is hidden beneath a deceptively frothy exterior, then it has something in common with Ms. Rosenthal, who for years has been known as Mr. De Niro's business partner, but whose energy and vision drive much of the festival's expansion. ''She's kind of like the main person who things revolve around, and that I rely on to get anything done,'' said Mr. De Niro. Ms. Rosenthal, 47, is tall, with big round eyes, a girlishly flipped haircut, and a soft, high-pitched voice. She spent a decade working in movie and mini-series production (''Adventures in Babysitting,'' ''The Women's Room'') in Los Angeles before Martin Scorsese (the fourth co-founder of the festival) recommended her to Mr. De Niro in 1989. ''I thought the most important thing was someone who he could be comfortable with, and who could get the job done whatever the job became,'' said Mr. Scorsese. In partnership with Ms. Rosenthal, the remote, prickly star of films like ''Raging Bull'' and ''Taxi Driver'' has transformed himself into a multiplex crowd-pleaser with comedies like ''Analyze This'' and ''Meet the Parents.'' Ms. Rosenthal even convinced him to play Fearless Leader in the ill-fated ''The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle.'' Call her influence a dumbing down or a democratizing force; either way, it dramatically elevated Mr. De Niro's box office grosses.
 But from the start, the De Niro-Rosenthal partnership was about real estate as well as movies. With a grimace, Ms. Rosenthal recalled Mr. De Niro's assurance that ''if it doesn't work out with movies, you could always hostess at the restaurant'' -- meaning TriBeCa Grill, located in the TriBeCa Film Center, a former coffee warehouse that Mr. De Niro converted into glamorous office and restaurant space. It was through Mr. De Niro and the Film Center that Ms. Rosenthal met Mr. Hatkoff, a real estate entrepreneur interested in economic development.
 ''It was one of those traditional New York stories,'' Mr. Hatkoff said. ''It really started from the real estate angle.'' (Oddly, Mr. Hatkoff and Ms. Rosenthal, TriBeCa's ardent champions, live on the Upper West Side. ''My husband wouldn't move downtown,'' she said of her relocation 10 years ago. ''I didn't sell my loft in TriBeCa until my first daughter was a year and a half old.'')
 Like Ms. Rosenthal, who is simultaneously preparing the festival, releasing several films, producing another and casting a Las Vegas stage musical, Mr. Hatkoff is a multi-hyphenate New Yorker. In addition to his real estate work and his position at the festival, Mr. Hatkoff is also a trustee of the New York City Schools Construction Authority, the managing partner of a children's entertainment company and the author of a rock opera about astronomy. Together, he and Ms. Rosenthal created a children's book, ''Cesar's Amazing Journey,'' about a tree-frog who wanders around New York.
 Ms. Rosenthal said she and Mr. De Niro had talked about founding a local cultural event for years, but they knew that ''the world didn't need another film festival.'' (Mr. Scarlet said that when he first heard about their project he was equally skeptical: ''I had always wanted to create a product called Festicide, which would prevent the weed-like growth of new film festivals.'') Sept. 11 changed all that, suddenly creating a need for civic-boosting, arts-enhancing, tourism-friendly events. ''There were still emergency vehicles on the street,'' Mr. Hatkoff recalls. ''They were working on the site; you could still smell the burning rubber in the air; no one had been out on the street in any kind of celebratory way; and here is Jane saying, 'Let's put on a film festival!' '' 
 The project was announced at a news conference the first week of December 2001. ''Did we have anything in place?'' asks Mr. Hatkoff. ''No. We had Martin Scorsese; we had Meryl Streep; we had the governor.'' As he recalls, a potential corporate sponsor asked him: '' 'What is the collateral that is being made available to your sponsors?' I said, 'I don't know what you're talking about.' So he said, 'Do you have any major films?' 'No, not yet.' 'Do you have any venues?' 'No, not yet.' 'Do you know how many people you're expecting?' 'No, not yet.' '' (This year, the festival has 15 sponsors, including The New York Times.)
 City officials -- grateful that anyone was planning entertaining, ambitious events at a time of fear and pessimism -- were less picky. Instead of tying up plans with talk of permits, crowds and noise, they helped push the project through. And the promise of cultural resuscitation was enough to grease some ordinarily slow-moving corporate wheels. American Express, whose offices were located in Battery Park City, next to ground zero, signed on as a founding sponsor before anyone had secured a single film to screen, in part because the company wanted to help finance an event that would make its employees feel better about returning to the devastated neighborhood.
 Still, multi-tentacled projects are hard to get off the ground in New York City. In Los Angeles, the world may revolve around the film industry. But here, star power isn't always enough to cut through red tape, as Mr. De Niro's aborted attempt to convert the Brooklyn Navy Yard into a Hollywood back-lot demonstrated in 1999. So Ms. Rosenthal also relied on the civic connections she had acquired over the years in TriBeCa. ''Jane is just very savvy about what she needs to do,'' said Madelyn Wils, the chairperson of TriBeCa's Community Board 1, a board member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and the newly appointed head of the TriBeCa Film Institute, the film festival's year-round arm.
 The speed of the festival's efforts has resulted in some comic mishaps. Last year a brass band was scheduled to play an outdoor concert -- on a residential street at 5 a.m. And in 2002, Anheuser-Busch, a corporate sponsor, was disappointed when a team of Budweiser Clydesdales got stuck in traffic on the George Washington Bridge and didn't make the opening ceremony. Last year's press materials were unclear about whether the festival actually started on May 1 or May 6; it was all ''part of the charm,'' Mr. Hatkoff said.
 In its first year, organizers said, 150,000 people came to the festival, pumping an additional $10.4 million into the local economy. In 2003, the number of visitors rose to nearly 350,000 and the neighborhood took in $47 million. The success meant happy local politicians and the financial backing to get bigger, faster. Last month, the development corporation voted to grant the festival $3 million over two years to fund its free elements -- the drive-in, street fair and concert which organizers said account for 80 percent of attendance. The TriBeCa Institute has also received a grant of $200,000 from the Empire State Development Corporation.
 Over breakfast one recent morning, Ms. Rosenthal explained how a film festival -- or even film production -- could affect city blocks. ''When a movie comes to this intersection right here,'' she said, gesturing toward West 72nd Street and Columbus Avenue, ''this restaurant's business is going to boom. That drug store? Cigarette sales? Everything is just going to boom.'' The neighborhood to which she was gesturing, her home turf, is an area that has undergone the kind of transformation that Ms. Rosenthal is now enacting on her professional stomping ground. On the Upper West Side, institutions like the Thalia theater and Shakespeare and Company have given way to Loews multiplexes and Barnes and Noble. Residents can still find art-house movies and academic press books in the neighborhood, but ''Fifty First Dates'' and ''Chicken Soup for the Teenage Soul'' are hawked heavily as well. It's an urban ethos that prizes quantity, choice and inclusiveness over selectivity and specialization.
 To that end, the festival is continuing to grow. ''I hope we really are talking about more of a cultural festival along the lines of Edinburgh, talking about film and theater and the way television has impacted our culture, and comedy and dance and music,'' said Ms. Rosenthal of her plans for the future. The first TriBeCa Theater Festival will take place in October, in conjunction with the TriBeCa-based Drama Dept. theater company. TriBeCa Enterprises, the private partnership of Ms. Rosenthal, Mr. Hatkoff and Mr. De Niro, recently purchased the Screening Room theater and rechristened it TriBeCa Cinemas; it will provide one of the main venues for this year's film festival. The nonprofit TriBeCa Institute will run year-long programs (like TriBeCa All-Access, a contest for first-time minority filmmakers) to bring new talent into the industry. Ms. Wils also hinted at projects she's undertaking with the Board of Education. ''A lot of things will be about bringing the filmmaker closer to the audience,'' she said. That is also the idea behind ''So You Wanna Be in Pictures?,'' a November conference that will allow film enthusiasts to connect with industry professionals. And down at ground zero, the film festival is likely to be one of several arts institutions to share a large performing arts venue, probably one with a proscenium stage that could be used for film premieres, live performances or awards shows. 
 But before all that, the film festival will open next weekend. The opening-night movie is ''Raising Helen,'' an adorable-orphan comedy starring Kate Hudson and directed by Garry Marshall. In addition, the festival will feature two of TriBeCa Productions' own films: ''The House of D,'' the actor David Duchovny's writing and directing debut, and ''Stage Beauty,'' a period piece directed by Richard Eyre. Mr. Scarlet insists there was no favoritism at work. ''The holes in the sieve were just as fine for her films as for anything else.''
 For all of the festival's glitzy pageantry, civic impact and expansion plans, there is one arena in which it has yet to make an impact: in the industry that spawned it. Unlike the Sundance Film Festival, which has become a major shopping expedition for Hollywood distributors, the TriBeCa festival has not yet been host to the sale of a single film, or launched a formerly unknown independent title into widespread consciousness. For some observers, that remains an elusive form of validation, a coming-of-age ritual that the festival will have to undergo before it truly arrives.
 For her part, Ms. Rosenthal doesn't seem to be worrying about it. ''Maybe it happens this year, maybe it happens next year,'' she said, with uncharacteristic nonchalance. 
 As long as the festival continues, and continues to grow, it seems, the particular function it serves is of secondary concern to the organizers. Ms. Rosenthal likes to quote Mr. De Niro's pronouncement on the subject: ''I don't know what this will become, but it will become something great.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jane Rosenthal, top, one of the founders of the TriBeCa Film Festival, earlier this month in the screening room at the TriBeCa Film Center. During the third festival, which opens next month, some movies will be shown on Pier 25 at North Moore Street, center. And painting a sign for last year's festival opening. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
(Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. 24)
 Last year's launch party, sponsored by Vanity Fair magazine, was held at State Supreme Court. (Photo by Evan Agostini/Getty Images)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (58%); ROBERT DE NIRO (58%); MARY-KATE OLSEN (57%); ASHLEY OLSEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



526 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 9; FOOTLIGHTS

LENGTH: 676 words

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON

 BODY:

In With the New
 The Katonah Museum of Art has had only two executive directors in its 50-year history: George King, who held the job from 1988 to 1998, and Susan H. Edwards, who took over later in 1998. The museum was run by volunteers from the time it opened as a gallery at the Katonah Library until plans got under way for a building of its own. Ms. Edwards has announced that she will leave in early June to become executive director and chief economic officer of the Frist Center for the Visual Arts in Nashville. 
 During her tenure Ms. Edwards supervised a $5 million endowment campaign, wrote a strategic plan for the museum and increased membership by 30 percent, said Mimi Taft, a spokeswoman for the museum. Ms. Taft said the museum's current president, Victoria Morris, and the incoming president, Yvonne Pollack, would form a search committee to fill the position. 
 The museum received an award in the category of arts organizations at the Westchester Arts Council's annual arts awards lunch last Wednesday. 

With Grandmother's Spirit
 Innovative Stages, which was founded to help playwrights by staging monthly readings of new plays, is offering ''A Matter of Time'' by Carol Kafka. Ms. Kafka, a Mamaroneck playwright, is also the co-artistic director of Innovative Stages. The play is described as a drama about a woman in crisis who is helped by ''the return from the past of her grandmother's spirit.'' 
 It will be read by seven actors, including members of Actors Equity, on Saturday at 8 p.m. at Memorial United Methodist Church in White Plains; next Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Mamaroneck Public Library, and May 7 at 7:30 p.m. at the Bronxville Public Library. Audience reaction is part of the program; not only are new plays works in progress, but also ''play writing is always a work in progress,'' Ms. Kafka said. 
 Tickets to each reading are $5 and $3. Information: (914)698-1052.

Of Music and Award Winners
 New music often finds listeners struggling with a sense of disconnect from the tried and true. Hoff-Barthelson Music School in Scarsdale is addressing this issue with a festival called ''Music of Our Time,'' to take place from Thursday through May 4 at the school and at the Community Unitarian Church in White Plains.
 Some of the music isn't so new - like ''Tombeau de Couperin,'' by Ravel, to be performed by the Festival Orchestra, led by Jun Nakabayashi; and ''Five Songs,'' by Poulenc, to be sung by the Festival Chorus, also led by Mr. Nakabayashi. But there is also music for a pianist and two pre-recorded piano tracts by Richard Carrick, and ''From the Folk,'' by Judith Lang Zaimont, a world premiere commissioned by Hoff-Barthelson that will be played by student artists. Members of the faculty will also perform. Some of the concerts are free, while tickets for others range from $8 to $12. Information: (914)723-1169. 
 The Hudson Valley Music Club is nearly 80 years old and still following its original mission of bringing ''quality music to members during the day at reasonable prices.'' Many retired people attend the concerts, which are held on Monday afternoons at members' homes, but many young people also are in the audience, said Laura Lohman, who helps organize the events. Tomorrow at 1 p.m. at 54 Clinton Avenue in Dobbs Ferry, the club will present the winners of its annual student awards competition, a professionally juried event open to all Westchester students. Tickets are $14 and include a reception with the artists after the program. Information: (914)693-0616. 

Dollars for Restoration
 Historic Hudson Valley and Representative Sue Kelly recently announced that $2.7 million in federal transportation money has been earmarked for the restoration of the entrance to Van Cortlandt Manor along Old Route 9 in Croton-on-Hudson. The project, which will cost $4.2 million, will involve removing the old route, which is now a parking lot; relocating overhead utility lines; and building a visitor's center that will focus on the history of transportation in the lower Hudson Valley. ROBERTA HERSHENSON


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (87%); FESTIVALS (87%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (65%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



527 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 2014 words

HEADLINE: Changes in Design Preceded Collapse of Casino Garage

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, April 22 

 BODY:
The garage collapse that killed four construction workers and injured 20 others last October during a $245 million expansion of the Tropicana Casino and Resort was caused by the faulty installation of concrete floors after changes were made to the design to speed the job and save money, according to engineers for the contractors and others who have studied the design plans and the debris.
 The way prefabricated steel reinforcement rods and an underlying beam in the garage floors were connected to six critical outer vertical columns, as part of the way the revised design was executed, resulted in a building that engineers now say was all but destined to collapse.
 Whether it was a flaw in the way the structural plan was revised or simply sloppy execution of the revised plan is in dispute. But at least four engineers who have examined the debris collected from the collapse site -- including the engineer who originally designed the garage -- said it was clear that crucial steel connections were lacking, making it impossible to support the enormous weight of the concrete floors of the 10-story, 2,700-space garage after the revised design was executed. 
 ''It was supposed to save time and money,'' said Stephen V. DeSimone, president of DeSimone Consulting Engineers of Manhattan, the structural engineer on the complex, who said he believed that the problem occurred in the execution of the revised design, not the design itself. ''Four men went to work that day expecting fully to come home. For it to have gone so wrong, with such significant consequences, it troubles me. It rocks my confidence in the industry.'' The engineers also generally suspect, as laborers at the work site had warned for weeks before the collapse, that there was not sufficient shoring of the concrete floors that had just been poured, something essential, for the floors must harden before they reach their designed strength.
 Federal investigators will soon release their own analysis of what happened on Oct. 30, a block from the famed boardwalk, when the floors of the garage suddenly opened up like trap doors, sending scores of workers tumbling to the ground. 
 Officials at the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which is conducting the investigation, declined to comment.
 But the engineers and other contractors, whose files have been subpoenaed and employees deposed, said they believed the investigators would also cite the connection between the concrete floors and the outer columns as the collapse's primary cause.
 ''There is no visual evidence of the expected reinforcement between the slab and the columns,'' said W. Gene Corley, a structural engineer from Illinois who led the federal investigations into the collapses of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City and the World Trade Center and is now an expert representing victims of the Atlantic City collapse.
 Officials at Fabi Construction Company of Egg Harbor Township, N.J., which was in charge of building the concrete floors, would not comment on the cause of the collapse. Representatives of Keating Building Corporation of Philadelphia, the general contractor, and Aztar Corporation, the Phoenix-based casino company that owns Tropicana, said they could not discuss the details, given the pending lawsuits and investigations. ''Every decision made was intended to deliver the highest quality product possible,'' Keating said in a written statement.
 But the findings are sure to infuriate the families of those killed or injured, and complicate the legal challenges for the companies involved in the construction project.
 ''Someone should be held criminally responsible,'' said Robert A. Tartaglio Sr., who worked on the Tropicana expansion last year with his son, Robert Jr. -- one of the four men killed in the collapse. ''Someone is responsible up the line for making these decisions. And as far as I am concerned, they committed a crime.''
 On Thursday, Jeffrey S. Blitz, the Atlantic County prosecutor, confirmed that a criminal inquiry was under way. ''This office is gathering data,'' he said. ''When we receive all the available information, we will decide.''
 The Tropicana Casino and Resort expansion had been promoted as an impetus for a revival of the Atlantic City economy, including not only an expanded casino, but also an entertainment, restaurant and retail complex that is supposed to turn this beach-side resort into a more Las Vegas-like draw. The 10-story garage -- eight stories of which are parking -- is only the footnote of a project that also includes a new 31-story hotel and 220,000 square feet worth of restaurants, stores and live music venues, in a Havana-inspired complex that is to be called The Quarter.
 Keating Building, in the statement it issued in response to questions, said that the project was on time and on budget, disputing the assertion by Mr. DeSimone that the design was changed, after the state had approved the original engineering plans, to cut the cost and possibly accelerate the construction. But Fabi officials have said that the project had a late start because of a particularly snowy winter in Atlantic City in late 2002 and early 2003.
 Initially, in the lower floors, ironworkers were individually threading reinforcing steel, known as rebar, from the concrete floor slab of the garage into the six vertical columns at the edge of the garage. 
 But the contractors -- it remains unclear if it was both Fabi, the concrete firm, and Keating, the general contractor, or just one of them -- had asked DeSimone Consulting Engineers to consider an alternative. At the outer wall of the garage that would be redesigned, factory-made, eight-foot-wide cagelike mats of rebar would be used, instead of individual rods of rebar. At an earlier stage, the plan for how to build a critical support beam underneath this area was also revised, making the beams shallower and wider.
 Mr. DeSimone said he was convinced that the alternative structural design his firm had approved -- at the contractor's request -- was sound. The problem, he said, may have been in the translation of the revised structural design into the drawings used by contractors in the field. Also, in the construction the rebar mats were not placed far enough into the columns so that they would be anchored with the vertical rebar, ensuring a solid grip. That may be because the rebar mats were harder to handle, or just did not fit. Whatever the reason, the problem appears to have occurred on almost all of the upper floors.
 Another person who has examined the plans said that the revisions themselves were most likely flawed: a support beam intended to shift the weight of the floors onto the columns was moved, and the columns themselves were made smaller. Both changes significantly weakened the structure, according to the representative of one of the contractors. Mr. DeSimone said he was confident this conclusion would be proved wrong.
 The Occupational Health and Safety Administration, whose investigation into the accident, by law, must be released by April 30, will most likely address these and other questions, and also focus on the adequacy of the site supervision by the contractors and a company hired to inspect the work, Site Blauvelt of Mount Laurel, N.J. 
 What remains unclear to all the engineers involved is how the construction could have moved ahead with such obvious flaws, regardless of whether they had been based on a troubled design or just poor execution of the revised design.
 ''Everywhere along the line, the checks and balances failed,'' said an engineer for one of the contractors, who asked that he not be named because of the ongoing investigation. 
 The laborers and carpenters at the site, in interviews, said they did raise objections about a condition they thought was hazardous: the insufficient shoring that was being used to hold up the not-yet-dry concrete floors. Workers said they noticed that some of the shores -- essentially temporary steel or wooden pogo sticks that go from the ceiling to the floor -- were under such stress that they were bending or bowing. Laborers also reported troublesome-looking cracks in the concrete. But George Tolson, one of the Fabi laborers who noticed this condition, said he was told to keep working. 
 ''All they wanted,'' said David R. Hand, 33, a laborer for Fabi who was pouring the concrete ''is to go faster, faster, faster. Time is money. That was it.''
 When the collapse started at about 10:40 a.m., Mr. Hand was on the top floor of the garage, parking level 8, using a large crane-mounted hose to pour an area of concrete more than 60 feet wide. This is the moment of most intense stress, as the wet concrete, which weighs 160 pounds per square foot of floor, cannot support itself. 
 Mr. Hand felt a vibration, which in itself is not uncommon, as the concrete settled. But it continued for about 10 seconds. Then, suddenly, the floor below him opened up. Mr. Hand essentially surfed his way down to what he assumed would be his death.
 ''The piece I was standing on, I watched it fall and then hit the bottom and smash into pieces,'' he said, during an interview at his lawyer's office. 
 Mr. Hand, after grabbing some of the collapsed rebar mat to climb out of the debris, emerged with a slash in his head, a detached eyelid and several fractures. Five floors on one end of the garage had pancaked -- beginning at just the spot where the rebar mat and the revised beam had been used -- although the rest of the garage remained standing. 
 ''Every day now, I ask myself, why did God spare me? Why was I able to walk away? What was the big reason?'' he said, adding that while his health continues to improve, he still has nightmares and doubts he could ever work in a tall building again.
 Mr. Tartaglio looks each day at the green hard hat, tools and lunch box once used by his son -- they were not recovered until last month -- wondering just the opposite: why so many others lived, when his son, a father of two school-age daughters, died.
 Lawyers representing Mr. Hand and Mr. Tartaglio and other workers said previous accidents involving Fabi and Keating at the same Tropicana casino complex should have been enough to ensure that extra special safety precautions were being taken.
 In June 1995, a 23-year-old Fabi worker who was removing concrete slabs atop Tropicana's adjacent 10-story parking garage fell 100 feet to his death, down an elevator shaft, after the floor he was standing on collapsed. Fabi was fined $31,500 by the federal government and Keating was fined $6,400, after authorities concluded that the workers had not been properly trained or supervised.
 Then, in October 2002, after work on the new expansion got under way, three workers were injured when the concrete floor they were standing on gave way and they fell to the ground. In this case, according to one contractor, there was no shoring at all underneath the area where the men were working. Keating was in this case fined $1,125 and Fabi $8,375, although the penalties are being appealed.
 Jim Moran, director of the Philadelphia Area Project on Occupational Safety and Health, a union-backed group representing about 100,000 workers, said all workplace deaths were horrendous. ''But it is even more egregious,'' he said, ''when it is a repeat offender. If you are going to keep fining people for killing other people, on its face, that is ridiculous.''
 Lawsuits have been filed by the injured workers and families of those killed last year.
 Even while the OSHA investigation continues, work has started again on the unfinished parts of the Tropicana hotel and garage expansion. Keating and Fabi workers, along with other contractors, are back at the site, working to finish the complex, which was to open this spring. The collapsed floors of the garage are being removed one tiny chunk at a time to try to prevent the rest of the structure from collapsing. 
 The contractors, meanwhile, have decided to return to a design that is very much like the original as they start rebuilding the collapsed garage.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The garage's floors opened up like trap doors, sending workers tumbling.
A worker breaks concrete from the wreckage left by the collapse of a garage six months ago at the Tropicana Casino and Resort. Four workers were killed and 20 injured. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 33)
Collapsed floors
''Someone should be held criminally responsible,'' said Robert A. Tartaglio Sr., whose son was one of four workers killed in the garage collapse. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 38)Chart/Diagram: ''Revisiting a Collapse in Atlantic City''Engineers say that changes in the plans as well as poor execution of the revised plans are among the factors that contributed to the collapse of a garage at the Tropicana Casino and Resort on Oct. 30, 2003. The diagrams are schematic.THE ORIGINAL PLANSThe column is deep.A beam runs through the back of the columns.Reinforcing steel called rebar runs through the beam, intersecting horizontal rebar.THE REVISED PLANS, AS DETAILED FOR CONSTRUCTIONThe column is narrower.Some say the construction field drawings did not include this rebar.This rebar is changed to a mat of rebar rods.The beam becomes the underside of the floor slab.WHAT WAS BUILT, ACCORDING TO STRUCTURAL ENGINEERSThe rebar mats were not placed far enough into the columns to anchor behind the vertical rebar, according to several structural engineers.Diagrams of the garage's original plans, revised plans and what was built.(Sources by Engineers on the project, as well as engineers hired to analyze the collapse)
 (Diagrams by Steve Duenes/The New York Times)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CASINOS (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); TESTIMONY (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); SUBPOENAS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



528 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 2; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: The Alternative Universe: A Guide 

BYLINE: By Julie Flaherty

 BODY:
FROM for-profit universities that serve thousands of online students to small liberal arts colleges that have grown into centers for adult education, nontraditional students have many new options. Here are some institutions with regional accreditation, the accepted stamp of approval.

University of Phoenix
Campuses: 51, and 91 learning centers (phoenix.edu)
Total students: 201,381
Online students: 99,457

John Sperling, a Cambridge-educated economist and professor, found a need for more flexible education for working adults and started Phoenix in 1976. The university was one of the first accredited institutions to offer online distance learning, in 1989. Today, degrees are completed online, on site or via Flexnet (a combination of both), in fields like nursing, business, information technology and criminal justice. Five-week courses are taken one at a time (only one absence allowed). And 95 percent of students get course materials through a customized Web portal, eliminating textbooks.

University of Maryland
University College
Campuses: 23 in Maryland (main campus: Adelphi), Virginia and Washington, D.C., including military bases like Andrews (umuc.edu)
Total students: 90,000
Online students: 40,578
University College, founded in 1947, is a member of the public university system of Maryland but not a division of the University of Maryland. Catering to adult learners, it offered its first classes on the Web in 1994. Today there are 23 bachelor's degrees, 18 master's degrees and dozens of certificates. Most are available in classroom and online formats.

University of Massachusetts (continuing education divisions)
Campuses: Five, with the Boston campus particularly focused on nontraditional learners (umassonline.net or massachusetts.edu)
Total students: 23,000-25,000
Online seats filled: 14,787
The state's public university system began its first distance-learning program in 1974 with videotaped engineering courses. UMassOnline was founded in 2001. Online students must be admitted to one of the state campuses, which grants the degree. Certificates, master's or bachelor's degrees are available in everything from liberal arts to criminal justice/homeland security.

DeVry University
Campuses: 24, with 44 smaller centers (devry.edu)
Total students: 49,000
Online seats filled: 9,077
Herman DeVry, an inventor, founded the institution in 1931 as a trade school for electronics, motion pictures and radio. DeVry began offering bachelor's degrees in 1969, online graduate programs in 1998 and online undergraduate degrees in 2000, including technology, business and management. Last year it added biomedical engineering technology, biomedical informatics and health information technology.

Strayer University
Campuses: 27 in Maryland, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and Washington, D.C. (strayer.edu)
Total students: 20,000
Online students: Unknown
Founded in 1892 in Baltimore as a business college, this for-profit university for working adults first offered distance learning online in 1996. New Mountain Capital bought control in 2001 for $150 million and hired Robert S. Silberman, former president of CalEnergy, as chief executive. Undergraduate and graduate degrees include information technology, accounting, business, education and general studies. Students can take some or all of their classes online.

American Intercontinental University
Campuses: Seven residential campuses in Georgia (main campus: Atlanta), Texas, Florida, California, London and Dubai, United Arab Emirates (aiuonline.edu)
Total students: 18,000
Online students: 12,000
Founded in 1970 as a two-year college in Atlanta, A.I.U. was bought by the for-profit Career Education Corporation for $51 million in 2001. The company, which also owns the Katharine Gibbs Schools and Le Cordon Bleu Culinary Program North America, taught 79,500 students last year. A.I.U. first offered online classes in 1998, and full degrees in 2001. ''Degrees with real-world relevance'' include information technology, visual communication, international business and design. The university markets its accelerated online courses to both adults and traditional-age students.

Kaplan College
Campus: Davenport, Iowa
(Kaplancollege.edu)
Total students: 15,500
Online students: 10,000
The American Institute of Commerce, a business training school founded in 1937, was bought by the test-prep company Kaplan Inc. several years ago and renamed Kaplan College. Because the college had already experimented with online education, Kaplan used it as a base for all its online programs -- from financial planning and paralegal studies to health care and criminal justice. Kaplan owns 64 campuses, including Hesser College in New Hampshire and CEI College in California. Last year, it hired Harold O. Levy, former chancellor of New York City schools, to create a teachers' college, and its virtual Concord Law School offers law degrees. Kaplan Inc. is a subsidiary of the Washington Post Company.

Capella University
Campus: none (capella.edu)
Online students: 10,000
Capella was founded in 1993 as the Graduate School of America by Stephen Shank, former chief executive of a toy manufacturer, and Harold Abel, former president of Central Michigan University, Castleton State College in Vermont and the virtual Walden University. It started its transformation from snail mail and fax to online coursework in 1996, with programs in business, education, human services, technology and psychology. Capella has agreements with more than 1,400 corporations and government organizations to train their employees.

Excelsior College
Campus: None (excelsior.edu)
Online students: 27,000
The New York State Board of Regents founded Regents College as its independent study arm in 1971 and served as its governing board until 1998, when the nonprofit college obtained its own charter. Renamed Excelsior, it offered its first online classes in 1999. Its motto: ''What you know is more important than where or how you learned it.'' The college provides access to courses and resources at other universities to help students prepare for proficiency examinations. Military and corporate training can be applied toward degrees.

Walden University
Campus: None (waldenu.edu)
Online students: 8,400
Walden was founded in 1970 by two New York teachers, Bernard and Rita Turner, who saw a need for distance learning for doctoral candidates. By 1995, all students were online. Walden offers master's and doctoral degrees in education, management, psychology and health, as well as bachelor's completion programs in business. The average age of Ph.D. students is 42. Sylvan Learning Systems, which owns part of Walden, also owns eight universities abroad and another online university, in all serving 117,000 students.

Regis University School for Professional Studies
Campuses: Two in Las Vegas and six in Colorado, including a 90-acre residential campus in Denver housing the liberal arts college (regisonline.org)
Total students: 13,000
Online students: 4,000
The nonprofit university, founded in 1877 as a Jesuit liberal arts college, serves most of its 16,157 students through its adult-oriented School for Professional Studies. It offers five online master's degrees, seven bachelor's degrees and 19 certificates in areas like business administration, teacher education and computer science.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (89%); DISTANCE LEARNING (89%); ACCREDITATION (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); ENGINEERING (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (73%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); BIOMEDICINE (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



529 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3057 words

HEADLINE: Boldface Professors

BYLINE: By Karen W. Arenson. 
Karen W. Arenson covers higher education for The Times.

 BODY:
Hollywood might be the ultimate place to celebrity hunt. But for the star-struck student, campuses have their own sightings: literary luminaries like Joyce Carol Oates and Billy Collins, public intellectuals like Cornel West, former public officials -- especially out-of-government Democrats -- like Madeleine K. Albright and Robert B. Reich. 
 For colleges, they are loss leaders. ''There is a lot of skepticism about how valuable these people are,'' says Alan Brinkley, provost at Columbia, which in recent years has brought in two prominent economists: Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate and former chief economist at the World Bank, and Jeffrey D. Sachs, an adviser to the secretary general of the United Nations who was lured from Harvard.
 ''But they aren't just people who get paid a lot of money,'' Mr. Brinkley says. ''They become a kind of core from which you can build a faculty, people whose presence on a campus can energize a field and make it more attractive to younger people. That is why universities bend over backward for them and sometimes do things they wouldn't do otherwise.'' 
 Institutions with big endowments attract star professors with generous salaries, sabbaticals and research leaves as well as by having around other professors they want to work with. John J. DeGioia, president of Georgetown, says the game is highly competitive. ''There are only a few institutions that can play in that world,'' he says. ''If Harvard wants to recruit a faculty member, they're going to get that faculty member.'' At Georgetown, professors typically teach two courses a semester, he says, but stars often do less.
 For undergraduates, the important question is: Can they actually rub elbows with the prestige professors the universities advertise as faculty?
 Some stars teach only occasionally, others mainly graduate students or small seminars. Their classes are heavily subscribed, and it helps to be tenacious or talented to get in. But in an informal survey of members of the National Society of Collegiate Scholars, a social service and honor society with chapters at nearly 200 colleges, students say celebrity teachers are available to them -- whether it's discussing Fermat's Last Theorem over tea with Andrew J. Wiles at Princeton, hanging out at Michael S. Dukakis's office at Northeastern University in Boston or playing tennis with the author David Foster Wallace at Pomona College. Oh, and they take classes with them, too.
 ''I love to brag about having had so-and-so as a professor,'' says Julia Baugher, a senior majoring in political science at Georgetown, which attracts a roster of well-known Washington officials. She is obsessed, she says, with taking classes with the likes of Donna Brazile, Al Gore's former campaign manager, and W. Anthony Lake, national security adviser under Bill Clinton.
 Tom Kneafsey, a third-year journalism student at Northeastern, also appreciates the celebrity quotient. ''Seeing a famous presidential candidate pick up litter on his way to teach a class here spreads a little pride around the campus,'' he says. ''We know they could be other places. It's cool to have these professors around.''

MADELEINE K. ALBRIGHT, Georgetown
 Curriculum Vitae: Secretary of state and ambassador to the United Nations under President Clinton; now a principal in the Albright Group, a global consulting company.
 Teaches: One course a year, currently an undergraduate lecture called ''American National Security Toolbox.'' 
 In Class: Ms. Albright typically arrives with seven newspapers under her arm and dives into discussions of what is happening in the world and how it is playing in the papers. Students write policy briefs on topics like Iraq, Iran and North Korea. The high point is an evening of role playing in a foreign policy discussion, held in a conference room at her consulting firm. Students wear suits and play cabinet officials and diplomats; Ms. Albright plays the president. ''We all thought it would be silly,'' says Ruth L. Braunstein, who took the course last year and played United Nations ambassador for the exercise. ''But she made it so realistic. It lasted six hours and no one wanted to go home.'' How was Ms. Albright as president? ''She was stern,'' Ms. Braunstein says. ''She kept us in our places. She was especially hard on the secretary of state.''
 Your Chances: Demand is strong; 142 students applied this semester and 50 were taken. Only juniors and seniors got in.

SIMON SCHAMA, Columbia
 C.V.: Historian, art critic and host of the BBC series ''History of Britain.''
 Teaches: This semester, one graduate seminar; last semester, one undergraduate class in narrative history.
 In Class: Extensive writing is required, all on topics from the past. First-week assignment: one- to two-page description of a physical object or building. Third-week assignment: five pages on a day in the life of a particular individual, or a specific moment or hour. Other assignments might be to describe someone's appearance and effect on others, or a landscape or townscape. Students also study narrative voices (say, ironic voices like Tacitus, Gibbon and Gore Vidal), the evolution from poetic myth to historical narration (Homer and Hesiod to Herodotus) and ''romantic immersion'' (sometimes Carlyle and his relationship to Dickens). Final assignment: a 15- to 20-page historical narrative, which Professor Schama collects in a thick anthology. ''It's a wonderful class!'' he says, ''at least for me.''
 Your Chances: Last semester 25 applicants submitted writing samples for 15 seats.

ANNA DEAVERE SMITH, New York University
 C.V.: Performance artist and playwright, MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' award winner and actor featured on the NBC series ''The West Wing.''
 Teaches: One semester a year. Last semester, she taught a graduate seminar and a freshmen seminar, ''A Real Play of Identities.''
 In Class: Ms. Smith says she tried to get the entering freshmen to think about identity at a time when they were in new surroundings and thinking about remaking themselves. One question she posed in class: Who could you never be? When one student said she could never be a leader, Ms. Smith arranged for her to interview N.Y.U.'s president, John Sexton, and then ''perform'' him, in the same way Ms. Smith interviews people and uses their own words and mannerisms to interpret them on stage. Students also had to interview and portray each other. ''It was difficult,'' Serena Chen, a student, says.
 Your Chances: The 16 students last semester were chosen from more than twice that many applicants, based on essays they wrote on why they wanted to take the course. It was the only freshmen seminar requiring an essay.

BILLY COLLINS, Lehman College, City University of New York
 C.V.: Former United States poet laureate, current poet laureate of New York State and winner of the National Poetry Series competition.
 Teaches: One graduate seminar in creative writing this year. Until two years ago, Mr. Collins taught three courses a semester, including freshmen composition. He says he liked teaching composition to freshmen because it was so needed, but he found himself grading papers in motel rooms and on airplanes en route to poetry readings and lectures. ''It was constant,'' he says. ''It was almost like having a little dog trailing me.'' He estimates he has spent ''at least nine years of my life correcting freshmen essays.''
 In Class: Mr. Collins mixes theory and practice. He talks about Harold Bloom's theory on the ''anxiety of influence'' and how writers seek to transcend those who precede them. Then he has students ''springboard'' off the work of others. Catherine Perry, who is taking her second class with Mr. Collins, says he requires a lot of reading and writing. ''Some of his assignments are really stringent,'' she says. ''But in class, he is so relaxed about everything. Everything he says is just a suggestion. He never says, 'Do this' or 'Do that.'''
 Your Chances: For decades he was one of an army of professors teaching freshmen composition. You didn't ask for Billy Collins, you just got him. No longer. Ms. Perry says she ''desperately clawed to get in'' this semester. ''He likes to cap his graduate classes at 12, and there were 17 enrolled. I just kept begging.'' She is auditing it.

MICHAEL S. DUKAKIS, Northeastern
 C.V.: Democratic candidate for president, 1988; three-term Massachusetts governor; teacher since 1979 (when not running for office or in office).
 Teaches: Two courses a semester, including the summer term. (The only extra he gets, says Richard M. Freeland, Northeastern's president, is a little more secretarial help.) Topics include the presidency, public management, health policy, state and local government and urban development.
 In Class: A lot of case studies, followed by short policy memorandums. The midterm for ''Public Policy Analysis'' is a longer memorandum in which students are encouraged to talk to people in the field. ''Often he was able to use his stature as a public figure to help students get answers and calls back,'' says Shannon Blakely, a third-year student. She says he also uses his pull to help students find internships, and he writes recommendations. His comment: ''Teaching is hard. It is not just telling war stories. Guys like me ought to connect with these young kids.''
 Your Chances: Classes are booked more than a semester in advance. ''Presidential Campaigns and Conventions,'' Mr. Dukakis's summer offering, has been full since fall. The university recently raised the cap to 40 students from 35, but he often takes 5 to 10 above the limit. Students sometimes spill into the aisles. 

ROBERT B. REICH, Brandeis
 C.V.: Labor secretary under President Clinton; ran for governor of Massachusetts in 2002. 
 Teaches: On leave this semester (while teaching at the University of California at Berkeley). He taught a graduate course last semester with 25 students as well as an undergraduate lecture course, ''The Paradox of Wealth and Poverty,'' with 224 students, which was 24 over the cap.
 In Class: While graduate students lead the discussion groups and Mr. Reich only lectures, he meets groups of students over breakfast every week to get to know them. Conversation ranges from current events to careers. Mr. Reich was voted best teacher at Brandeis in 2002 and students call him a captivating lecturer, though one complaint is that he dwells more on problems than solutions. Mr. Reich says he tries to familiarize students with the arguments on all sides. As for solutions, he says: ''There are no magic bullets. I'm very careful not to use the class to promote my own particular views.''
 Your Chances: First come first served, with 30 to 40 students on a wait list. 

STEVEN PINKER, Harvard
 C.V.: Known for popularizing science, in the vein of Stephen Jay Gould, with his research on language; author of six books, including the best-selling ''The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature.''
 Teaches: An elective core science course, ''The Human Mind,'' for undergraduates and a graduate seminar linked to it -- his first courses since moving to Harvard in July from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
 In Class: Known as the ''rock professor'' for his long hair and easy style, he uses cartoons, videos, music and poetry to enliven lectures. He closed his first class by quoting Hamlet and opened another with ''If I Only Had a Brain'' from ''The Wizard of Oz.'' ''He's incredibly charismatic,'' says Samantha Holmes, a sophomore. ''But this is definitely a science course.''
 Your Chances: Good. Five hundred students tried to fit into a classroom for 300 on the first day, during the shopping period that allows students to sample classes before registering. Ultimately, 281 enrolled. Students in the course say classmates may have bolted because of too many demands for a core course, including two long papers, a midterm and a final.

Princeton's Star Power
 If colleges could measure the star quality of their professors -- not just top scholars, but scholars whose names are recognized beyond academe -- the winner would probably be Princeton. Familiar names stretch across many departments: Toni Morrison and Joyce Carol Oates in creative writing, Paul Krugman and Alan Blinder in economics, Andrew J. Wiles in mathematics, and K. Anthony Appiah, Cornel West and Peter Singer in philosophy and ethics. Princeton has the money and reputation that attracts such professors, and its nearness to New York City doesn't hurt. KAREN W. ARENSON

JOYCE CAROL OATES
 C.V.: Author of more than 70 books, including ''Them,'' which won the National Book Award, and ''We Were the Mulvaneys,'' which was No.1 on the New York Times best-seller list.
 Teaches: Two creative writing classes each semester. Ms. Oates, who has taught at Princeton since 1978, says she still finds teaching ''thrilling, genuinely exciting and invigorating.'' She likens herself to ''a trainer who works with individual athletes to draw out the very best work each individual is capable of.'' One former student is Jonathan Safran Foer, whose first novel, ''Everything Is Illuminated,'' attracted wide attention in 2002.
 In Class: Typical beginning assignments are a one-page character sketch with vivid writing and a single line of dialogue, a two-page ''moment-of-being'' (image, epiphany) and dialogues of varying lengths -- a process through which some students discover they are ''playwrights in embryo,'' she says. Advanced students don't have formal assignments but turn in work regularly and receive detailed criticism. Professor Oates says that while she tries not to hurt feelings, ''I do the young writers the honor of taking them very seriously since, to me, literature is a very serious enterprise, though it can also be funny.''
 ''I think it's unethical to simply praise without offering constructive criticism,'' she adds. 
 Margaret W. Johnson, a junior taking her third class with the author, says that when she turned in her first short story, Professor Oates asked whether she understood how disorganized it was and remarked on the vague, pretentious writing. ''I realized that she expected a different kind of writing from her students than what I was used to, and that she was not going to tolerate more experimental, more poetic endeavors,'' Ms. Johnson says. ''She wanted us to do the basics, and tell a story with a plot, and not try to make it beautiful or literary.'' Ms. Johnson is still struggling to get it right but prefers to have Professor Oates tear apart her work for 90 minutes than to say, ''O.K., this is very good, now let's move on'' after 15 minutes. ''When that happens,'' Ms. Johnson says, ''I know I have a story that does not interest her at all.'' She also gives praise, Ms. Johnson says, ''and when she does, it's really appreciated and means a lot.''
 Your Chances: Princeton's star-studded creative-writing program also includes Chang-rae Lee, Paul Muldoon, John McPhee and Edmund White. Students are admitted into the program based on writing samples. Classes are limited to 10 students.

CORNEL WEST
 C.V.: Philosopher, author and former member of Harvard's African-American ''dream team.''
 Teaches: Two courses a semester: this semester, a graduate seminar and an undergraduate course, ''Public Intellectuals and Religious Traditions,'' with 150 students.
 In Class: When Cornel West clashed over his role at Harvard with its president, Lawrence H. Summers, he was effusively courted by Princeton. Princeton won one of Harvard's most popular lecturers. Chase Skorburg, a senior who took the ''Public Intellectuals'' course, says that Professor West rarely talked about himself, even though he is himself one of the day's leading public intellectuals. The people he did talk about were Socrates, Erasmus, Davis Hume and Edward Said. ''He was very eloquent and very charismatic,'' Mr. Skorburg says.
 Chances: A Princeton official will say only that there are always more applicants than seats for a Cornel West course. When Professor West arrived at Princeton in 2002, more than 100 students applied for 15 seats in his freshmen seminar.

TONI MORRISON
 C.V.: Winner of the 1993 Nobel Prize for literature, Pulitzer Prize for ''Beloved'' and National Book Critics Award for ''Song of Solomon.''
 Teaches: Ms. Morrison stopped teaching traditional classes in the mid-1990's, when she created the Princeton Atelier, a program that brings artists to campus to collaborate on works with selected students in theater, dance, the visual arts and other areas. Guests have ranged from the choreographer Jacques d'Amboise to the opera director Peter Sellars.
 In Class: Ms. Morrison arranges the collaborations but is not a regular participant in most of them. In one last spring that she did teach, four students worked with her to write verses about slavery and then collaborated with the composer Richard Danielpour and his charges to set them to music. The process paralleled Ms. Morrison's own collaboration with Mr. Danielpour on ''Margaret Garner,'' an opera about a fugitive slave that is to have its premiere next year. 
 Felice T. Kuan, an Atelier student, says Ms. Morrison was all business. ''I felt like she wanted to produce something at the end of the semester,'' Ms. Kuan says. ''There was no messing around. If she didn't like a phrase, she would say so. She would make fun of us if we were self-indulgent, like when a student used her own name in her poem. Rather than being something negative, it took away our sensitivity about criticism. She handled us as if we were all artists already.'' 
 Another student, Tammy L. Brown, remembers ''feeling that the music wasn't the best match for what I wrote.'' Ms. Morrison advised her that she, too, sometimes wanted control of a project beginning to end but had learned to surrender it to benefit from another perspective.
 Your Chances: Students must apply, and sometimes audition or submit a portfolio. This semester, 64 students are involved in the Atelier. 
 Some Princeton students have griped that Ms. Morrison is beyond reach. As Kristen Albertsen, a student columnist for Princeton Alumni Weekly, put it in 2002: ''We all learned early on freshman year that a course with Toni Morrison was about as likely as a fall football bonfire to celebrate victories over Harvard and Yale -- possible in theory, but woefully rare in practice.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Jamie Rose for The New York Times
Courtesy of Columbia
Associated Press
Chris Maynard for The New York Times
Ben Baker
Josh Levine/Northeastern
Donna Coveney/M.I.T.
Keith Meyers/The New York Times
Laura Pedrick
 Stefania Beretta/Rolex)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); WRITERS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MATHEMATICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: AL GORE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



530 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 38; JOB HUNTING: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2411 words

HEADLINE: The B-School Hierarchy

BYLINE: By SCOTT JASCHIK

 BODY:
The doors to the hotel ballroom hadn't opened yet, but the 200 M.B.A. students lined up outside were busy plotting their strategy. The mirrors in the hallway were perfect for last-minute checks of ties, hair and handkerchiefs. Are the business cards within easy reach? As the students primped, they traded intelligence.
 ''I hear I.B.M.'s schedule is full.''
 ''Philip Morris is hiring.'' 
 The job fair was sponsored by the MBA Consortium, a group of 16 business schools that are good but a couple of steps down the B-school hierarchy. To help their students get jobs -- either summer internships or permanent positions -- the consortium had gathered 14 employers at the Marriott Eastside in Manhattan on this January day to meet them. The recruiters, who sat at tables displaying their wares, had already selected some students for interviews the next day based on resumes, but they had saved places for applicants who would impress them today.
 The students had paid their travel expenses and $50 to register. Many of them did not have interviews lined up. So the pressure was on. They had only a few minutes to make their pitch, and those in line -- their competition -- could hear them. 
 Ryan Hoebelheinrich, a first-year student at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C., waited his turn in the long I.B.M. line and made his pitch for an internship interview. After a firm handshake and a handoff of his resume, he told the recruiter he enjoyed problem solving, operations and finance.
 ''Are you flexible about where you would work this summer?'' 
 Mr. Hoebelheinrich said yes instantly. And it was over. (He didn't end up getting an interview.) Next person in line.
 As is often the case in troubled economic times, business schools reported an enrollment surge in 2002. Now those class members must compete for a limited job pool. Meanwhile, companies are putting off hiring decisions as long as possible until they can tell where the economy is going. Students at second- or third-tier schools can certainly build successful careers. But given the degree's hefty price tag and the tough economic climate, deans and corporate recruiters warn that a master's degree in business administration does not necessarily translate into a high-salary job. And the path to a leading investment bank or consulting company runs almost exclusively through a narrow band of elite business schools. 
 ''If you want to be an M.&A. lawyer, investment banker in a top house or a consultant for McKinsey -- these elite jobs that everybody seems to want -- you're not even going to get an interview unless you go to one of the elite schools,'' says Robert H. Frank, a Cornell University management professor and co-author of ''The Winner-Take-All Society.''
 ''Going to an elite school doesn't guarantee you'll get one of those jobs,'' he adds, ''but for better or worse, you won't even have a shot at it without it.''
AS the tight job market accentuates the advantages that graduates of Harvard or the University of Pennsylvania enjoy even in the best of times, students from lower-tier schools must hustle even harder. 
 At the job fair, options are improving but it's clear that they are still more limited than a few years ago. I.B.M. will hire about 2,000 people for the summer, down from 3,000 in past years. Organizers are pleased to have 14 employers. Last year, there were 10. But in the 1990's, they had 30, and students could write their own ticket. 
 If you want to rile someone at the fair, use the phrase ''core schools.'' Those are schools where companies recruit in person year after year. Many have only five or so core schools, some as few as two. At big-time companies, only a few business schools turn up on list after list: Harvard, Northwestern, Stanford, Chicago, University of Pennsylvania, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Columbia.
 A survey by Business Week last year found that of Citigroup's 164 M.B.A. hires, 23 were from Columbia and 14 from the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania. No other business school placed more than 8 there. Columbia M.B.A.'s took 16 of the 71 M.B.A. jobs at Booz Allen Hamilton, 11 of the 43 at Deutsche Bank, and 15 of the 40 at Goldman Sachs. 
 What do these gold-plated programs bring to the table? 
 Jeffrey Pfeffer, a professor at Stanford's business school, published a study in 2002 based on decades of data to determine what the M.B.A. degree actually did for students. Internal studies by leading consulting firms and investment banks of their M.B.A. and non-M.B.A. employees showed that the degree had no impact beyond helping them get the job. 
 Professor Pfeffer concluded: ''There is little evidence that mastery of the knowledge acquired in business schools enhances people's careers, or that even attaining the M.B.A. credential itself has much effect on graduates' salaries or career attainment.'' 
 To practice medicine, medical school is essential; ditto for law. But if you can excel in business without business school, he wondered, what is its value?
 Professor Pfeffer's report set off intense debate. ''The official reaction is that I've got my head up some part of my anatomy,'' he now says. ''But privately, a lot of people tell me I'm right, but they just can't say that.'' (And indeed, privately, many business educators do agree.)
 But even critics like Professor Pfeffer say that top business schools do something of value: sort students. People who invest in an M.B.A. are often bright in the first place, and those with the most potential attend business schools from which they can land jobs with important futures. 
 ''It wasn't what the students learned, but that you've got this preselected group of people,'' he says.
 Eileen M. Stephan, executive director for recruiting at Morgan Stanley, also appreciates the sorting factor. ''If a student takes the opportunity costs of leaving the business world for two years, and paying the tuition, they are dedicated,'' Ms. Stephan says. She acknowledges that some employees advance through Morgan Stanley without an M.B.A. But she notes that many business school graduates have backgrounds in other fields, from engineering to teaching, and need the M.B.A. curriculum. 
 Roger L. Martin spent 13 years at Monitor, a top consulting company based in Cambridge, Mass., where he was responsible for recruiting. He tended to recruit almost entirely from the Harvard Business School (of which he is a graduate). Harvard, he says, ''is a magnificent vehicle for extracting out of the global economy those people who are destined to be great business leaders and motivated and smart.'' But beyond that, he believes, Harvard adds nothing. 
 ''If you gave me a choice of recruiting with the admissions list or the graduating list, it would take me a second to decide -- I'd go with the admissions list,'' says Mr. Martin, now dean of the business school at the University of Toronto. 
 ''If people were smart,'' he says, ''they would apply to Harvard, get in, and then send their admissions letters out and use that to get jobs.''
THE group-study rooms at Jon M. Huntsman Hall, the new $139 million building that houses Wharton, have easels, computers and sleek tables and chairs that look appropriate for a corporate conference room. Interrupt students immersed in their studies there and they will tell you, in March, that they have jobs or internships lined up. 
 Most of the time, recruiters visit the school, and most of the time they are alumni of Wharton predisposed to think well of its students. 
 Matthew Conway, a first-year student, was looking forward to a summer internship at Morgan Stanley. A team of alumni recruited him. ''You don't realize how strong the alumni support is until you are here,'' he said. That was the message, student after student.
 Jeremy Benedict, a second-year student, received his undergraduate degree from the College of William and Mary and worked for Arthur Anderson and Commerce One before Wharton. He had a job lined up as a consultant with Bain & Company in Boston. He believes Wharton is paving the way for his future success.
 Take a typical business school experience: creating a business plan for a hypothetical company. Mr. Benedict proposed a business in the day spa industry. He used an alumni database to identify chief executives of Elizabeth Arden Salon Holdings (John B. Richards) and a chain of haircut salons called SportClips (Gordon B. Logan). They offered advice on the project -- and promised help should Mr. Benedict ever want to execute his ideas. He had never met either executive, but they responded instantly to the Wharton student.
 The Entrepreneurship Club sponsors activities to get Wharton students networking among themselves or with alumni. First Tuesday is a monthly meeting over beers with a recent graduate. Better Mousetrap is a weekly discussion of students' business ideas. And the club's Web site tells the stories of recent alumni who are making a mark in the business world. There's Chris Ashton, who graduated last year and started Fetch pet insurance for people who don't want to worry about vet bills. Stories about people like Mr. Ashton, right out of business school, are passed from Wharton student to Wharton student.
 Nurturing ambition is a big part of what goes on. For spring break, instead of Florida, Mr. Benedict and 20 other students and the director of the school's leadership program spent a week trekking the Torres del Paine National Park in Patagonia, Chile. While hiking and mountain climbing through a region of glaciers, rivers and mountains, the students talked about working as a team and discussed readings about leadership and business issues.
 When he reflects about his Wharton experience, Mr. Benedict says the bonds between students and alumni will help him throughout his career. ''I want to know every well-connected venture capitalist I can, and I'm going to know an awful lot.''
WAKE FOREST accepts reality: it is midlevel and not on anyone's core list. ''That means we have to work harder,'' says Ned Tobey, interim director of career management for its business school. ''You need to be creative.''
 That means the MBA Consortium's job fair was staged in New York so there would be little or no travel and an opportunity to meet students from numerous schools. Last year, business schools in North Carolina -- at Wake Forest, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Duke -- started a March fair for ''just-in-time hiring,'' since many companies now delay to the spring hiring decisions usually made in the fall. 
 Mary Banks runs career services at the business school at the University of Colorado at Boulder. She used to work in the career center of Columbia's business school, so she's seen life at core and noncore schools. ''At Columbia, companies were always beating down the doors and they still are,'' Ms. Banks says. ''But it's different at Colorado.'' Though most students want to work in Colorado, she has to work the phones to get any of them in the door at national companies based in the East. ''You are not going to go to Wall Street from Boulder on a plane,'' she says. ''You will plod.''
 The University of St. Thomas College of Business in St. Paul has an even tougher job because it is young (10 years old) and small (each entering class is about 50 students). Its location isn't front and center to many big businesses. Christopher P. Puto, the dean, says its strengths are in its new curriculum. The business simulations that M.B.A. students go through have an unusual feature: students aren't just put into teams for projects (as is common at business schools), but a la ''Survivor'' they can hire or fire team members, giving the students more responsibility and more real-life experience. ''You can't be a freeloader,'' Mr. Puto says.
 To get recruiters on campus, Mr. Puto says that an upstart business school has its best success with new or changing companies. So when Piper Jaffray, an investment bank based in Minneapolis, was spun off from U.S. Bancorp a few months ago, Mr. Puto put the company on the list of targets for his school. ''An up-and-coming firm isn't going to get much attention from a top-10 business school. We can say, 'We'll give you a shot at our best talent.'''
 Morgan Stanley recruits at about 25 top business schools (there are more than 300 accredited M.B.A. schools) and sends alumni on staff to conduct job interviews. That means the recruiters are familiar with the programs and advocate for those students, Ms. Stephan says. ''If you are a highly talented student at a school where we don't have a formal campus presence,'' she says, ''it might require a student to be a little more aggressive and creative.'' 
 Consider Charles Brooker, a second-year M.B.A. student at the University of Rochester, who was on the waiting list at the business schools at the University of Chicago and Michigan. Mr. Brooker was at the job fair for two interviews with Wyeth, a health products company. He wants a consulting job, and that field is ''very sensitive to the economy,'' he says. Last year he made 17 trips to New York, most at his own expense, in an unsuccessful attempt to land a consulting internship. He eventually found one in Boston.
 He says the academic program at Rochester was strong and students were ''very sharp.'' 
 Rachel Agronsky picked Wake Forest for its small size and ''nurturing'' reputation. She graduated in 1996 from the University of Pennsylvania, where she majored in political science. She worked at big-name companies like Goldman Sachs and McKinsey & Company but did not have a strong finance or math background. She hoped to gain that at Wake Forest, and thinks she did.
 ''I've got friends at Wharton who hated school and ended up with only O.K. jobs,'' she says, ''while I've been 100 percent happy with my decision.'' 
 Ms. Agronsky had two interviews for marketing jobs at the MBA Consortium event, and she advanced to second-round interviews with Avega, a health care software company, and Daymon Worldwide, a marketer of private label brands. Avega went elsewhere, but Daymon looks promising. She has interviews coming up with two other companies. She doesn't expect anything to happen immediately, since marketing jobs tend to fill late in the academic year.
 ''I am calling everyone I have ever met who has a job and asking for help,'' she says. 
 ''Everyone from my broker to my best friend is working hard 
 trying to get me employed.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The pressure is on at a job fair held in New York this winter and organized by the MBA Consortium, a group of business schools that are good but not elite.
 Man to impress: Chris Kangas, a Citigroup recruiter. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



531 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 2; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 37; JOB HUNTING: LAW

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: If You Went Here, You'd Be Sitting Pretty Now

BYLINE: By Scott Jaschik and Douglas Lederman. 
Scott Jaschik is former editor of The Chronicle of Higher Education; Douglas Lederman is former managing editor. Both write freelance in the Washington area.

 BODY:
Founded in 1879, Sullivan & Cromwell is a classic white-shoe law firm. It has stately financial-district offices with views of the Statue of Liberty and a history that includes brokering deals that paid for building the Panama Canal. Landing a job at Sullivan & Cromwell is not easy. This June, about 90 lucky students will get entree to entry-level jobs through summer associate positions (internships) -- that's great, compared with 60 last summer, but well below the 130 in 2001. 
 A bias toward elite law schools is strong here, and the firm's partners make no apologies. Recruiters typically visit 12 to 15 schools each year, and while the list changes a bit over time, the stalwarts are Stanford, the University of Chicago, Michigan and the four law schools from which almost half its partners graduated: Harvard, Yale, Columbia and New York University. ''Write-ins'' from unsolicited schools land maybe a half-dozen spots. 
 Benjamin F. Stapleton III, a Yale law graduate and senior partner, acknowledges that alma mater is not a perfect way to evaluate candidates. ''Sometimes the people with the best grades at the best schools can't make a decision,'' he says. But ''these facts are the only proxies we've got for intelligence and effort as people begin their careers.''
 Brian Leiter, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law at Austin, studies trends in job placement and developed a formula to determine which law schools placed the largest percentage of graduates at top national firms. The schools topping Mr. Leiter's list are not surprising, either: Harvard, Chicago, Michigan, Yale, University of Virginia. At Cravath, Swaine & Moore, which has about 500 lawyers on staff at a firm that goes back to 1819, he found 110 Harvard law graduates, 88 Columbia graduates, 59 N.Y.U. graduates and no other school with more than 30 lawyers at the firm. 
 But Mr. Leiter cautions against worrying too much about statistics at such firms, which occupy a rarefied place in the legal world. Most people end up at ''a D.A.'s office or a firm with eight lawyers,'' he says. 
 It's the local economy that has the greatest influence on law jobs, and over all the picture is improving. Besides, prosecutors and public defenders are immune to economic shifts. But the downturn created larger-than-expected law classes as the uncertain retreated to education. A record 140,600 students were attending 186 schools accredited by the American Bar Association in 2002-03, the most ever. 
 Syracuse University's first-year class this year has 336 students, well above the target of 270. The University of Connecticut experienced a bulge last year, when 248 enrolled, compared with a goal of 210. 
 To make graduates more attractive in an increasingly competitive market, both schools have joined the trend of creating certificate programs or concentrations of electives in hot new fields. Syracuse created clusters around the themes of counterterrorism and national security, disability law and indigenous people's issues. UConn developed programs in intellectual property, taxation and, playing off the state's major industry, insurance.
 To law experts, questions about job options do not start at graduation but at admissions, and they advise serious soul-searching about career and life goals. If you want the option of joining the fast track, a prestige school is essential. ''Going to Loyola Law School can lead you to a pretty lucrative, satisfying life in Los Angeles,'' says Adam Avitable, a manager of Legal Authority, a Web site that helps law students find jobs. ''But if you want to have any chance of going national, you really have to be at U.C.L.A. or U.S.C.'' 
 While a law degree is a necessary credential to practice law, it is also increasingly desirable for positions in government, business and nonprofit work. But deans caution about seeing law as a path and not an end. Gerald Wilson, a senior associate dean at Duke University who advises prelaw undergraduates, starts by asking students why they want to go to law school. One red flag is when he hears: ''I'm going to law school, but I don't want to be a lawyer.''
 ''I ask them, 'What is it that you do want to do?' ''Mr. Wilson says. ''A legal education is a powerful instrument, but you have to decide if it's worth three years of your life and perhaps $100,000, plus lost income, to help you get there.'' If students are ''drifting into law school as opposed to actively seeking it,'' he says, ''I will do everything I can to go convince them to do something else until they have a real reason to go.'' 
 Michael Young, dean of George Washington University's law school, puts it more bluntly: ''Law is possibly a route into politics, business, etc., but it's not a sure route by any stretch. The vast majority of people who start in the law die in the law.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvard Law School, where recruiters roam. (Photograph courtesy of Harvard Law School)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SUMMER LAW ASSOCIATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (75%); ACCREDITATION (75%); TRENDS (74%); LAW SCHOOL RANKINGS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (95%); CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (95%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) PANAMA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



532 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 7; BLACKBOARD: GRADES

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Gimme an A (I Insist!)

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL SULLIVAN MOORE

 BODY:
GRADE inflation seems to be reaching record levels at the nation's high schools, according to a new survey of incoming freshmen at more than 400 colleges and universities. Almost half reported an A average in high school, up from 18 percent in 1968. 
 ''Something is amiss,'' says Linda J. Sax, who directed the survey of 276,000 students for the Higher Education Research Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles. At the same time, she says, ''students are studying, but not as often as they were.''
 Based on conversations with educators, Dr. Sax believes that parents and pupils are pushing teachers for higher grades amid the intense competition for desirable colleges. Also, she says: ''What I'm hearing is that teachers feel a pressure to not shatter students' self-esteem. Teachers are caught up in this web of pressure.''
 A study by the College Board released in January confirms the findings: high school seniors' grades have climbed but SAT scores remain nearly unchanged. Wayne J. Camara, the board's vice president for research and development, says the trend started to accelerate in the early 90's, when ''more and more middle-income families had much more awareness of college, and at the same time there was more discretionary income'' to pay for the expensive, hard-to-get-into institutions. He predicts a correction is due. ''Everyone can't get A's,'' he says. ABIGAIL SULLIVAN MOORE


GRAPHIC: Graph shows the percentage of college freshmen reporting A and C averages in high school

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TRENDS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); FAMILY (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



533 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: War on Peruvian Drugs Takes a Victim: U.S. Asparagus

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: TOPPENISH, Wash. 

 BODY:
After 55 years of packing Eastern Washington asparagus, the Del Monte Foods factory here moved operations to Peru last year, eliminating 365 jobs. The company said it could get asparagus cheaper and year-round there.
 As the global economy churns, nearly every sector has a story about American jobs landing on cheaper shores. But what happened to the American asparagus industry is rare, the farmers here say, because it became a casualty of the government's war on drugs. 
 To reduce the flow of cocaine into this country by encouraging farmers in Peru to grow food instead of coca, the United States in the early 1990's started to subsidize a year-round Peruvian asparagus industry, and since then American processing plants have closed and hundreds of farmers have gone out of business.
 One result is that Americans are eating more asparagus, because it is available fresh at all times. But the growth has been in Peruvian asparagus supported by American taxpayers. 
 ''We've created this booming asparagus industry in Peru, resulting in the demise of a century-old industry in America,'' said Alan Schreiber, director of the Washington Asparagus Commission. ''And I've yet to hear anyone from the government tell me with a straight face that it has reduced the amount of cocaine coming into this country.''
 Government officials respond that it was never their intent to hobble an American industry. But they say a thriving asparagus industry in Peru stabilizes the country and provides an incentive to grow something other than coca leaves, the raw material of a drug used regularly by about 2.8 million Americans.
 ''Apologies to the people affected,'' said David Murray, special assistant for the White House's drug policy office, ''but the idea of creating alternative development, countrywide, does serve our purposes.'' Mr. Murray said that net cultivation of coca leaf in Peru had fallen considerably, but that it was unclear how much of a role the alternative crop incentives had played. 
 Here in Washington, the nation's second-leading asparagus producer, after California, about 17,000 acres have been plowed under since a 1991 trade act prompted a flood of less-expensive Peruvian asparagus, a 55 percent decline in acreage.
 During the same period, Peruvian asparagus exports to the United States have grown to 110 million pounds from 4 million pounds. 
 Two of the biggest asparagus processing factories in the United States have closed. The Del Monte plant in Toppenish is still packing other vegetables, but it buys and packs its asparagus in Peru. The other factory was in Walla Walla.
 Peruvian asparagus is sold without tariffs under terms of the Andean Trade Preference Act, signed in 1991 and renewed in 2002. The United States also spends about $60 million a year in Peru to help farmers grow and develop their industry for asparagus and other crops seen as alternatives to coca.
 Many American farmers still compete, saying they offer a better-tasting and fresher product. But others have abandoned the crop.
 When the American factories closed, Washington farmers were left without a buyer for millions of pounds of asparagus. Among them was Ed McKay, who has given up on asparagus, a crop that takes three to five years to mature, and then grows perennially. After growing it for 50 years and employing more than 100 people at the height of the season, he turned over his 225 acres in central Washington near Othello last year, and now plants some in corn and wheat, and lets other land go fallow.
 ''We're a victim of the drug war,'' said Mr. McKay, 73. ''It seems like we still got plenty of cocaine coming into this country, but now we got cheap asparagus as well.''
 Acreage devoted to asparagus has dropped by a third in California, and the crop has nearly disappeared from the Imperial Valley, once a huge source of asparagus. Growers blame imports from Peru, but also cheaper asparagus from Mexico, which benefits from the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 In Michigan, the value of the industry has fallen by 35 percent since the Andean trade agreement. Michigan and Washington have been hit the hardest because they lead the nation in production of canned or frozen asparagus, a segment that has been in particular decline with the year-round Peruvian crop.
 ''The irony is that they didn't plow under the coke to plant asparagus in Peru,'' said John Bakker, executive director of the Michigan Asparagus Advisory Board. ''If you look at that industry in Peru and where it's growing, it has nothing to do with coca leaf growers becoming normal farmers. Coca leaf is grown in the highlands. The asparagus is near sea level.''
 In a letter to the State Department in March, Peru's government said the asparagus industry employed 50,000 people and 40 percent came from coca-producing regions.
 ''It is important to understand that the war against drugs is another face of the battle against terrorism, and will be successful only if new legal jobs are created as an alternative to illegal activities,'' the Peruvian Asparagus and Other Vegetables Institute said in the letter.
 Yet United States auditors, in a 2001 report to Congress, said the Foreign Agricultural Service ''does not believe that Peruvian asparagus production provides an alternative economic opportunity for coca producers and workers -- the stated purpose of the act.''
 Mr. Schreiber, of the Washington asparagus board, said he had made two trips to Peru and doubted many coca growers had turned to asparagus. 
 ''I don't fault the Peruvians,'' Mr. Schreiber said. ''We're in this situation because of what our government has done to us. They say it's a national security issue. Well, the cost of it has been borne on the back of the American asparagus grower.''
 The 2001 report by the General Accounting Office, the auditing arm of Congress, found that the value of the asparagus processing industry in the United States had fallen by nearly 30 percent, which it attributed to Peruvian imports. The industry was valued at $217 million in 2000.
 Asparagus is labor intensive, and some industry experts have said Washington's high minimum wage of $7.16 an hour has contributed to the industry's decline. But Mr. McKay, the farmer, said he was able to pay high wages and even give workers housing, and still make a profit before Peruvian asparagus was given trade preference. 
 Mr. Bakker of the Michigan asparagus board said about 300 farmers in his state had lost a total of about $25 million because of the cheaper Peruvian imports. The government has bought some Michigan asparagus, but farmers there and in Washington say money that is supposed to be available to industries hurt by free trade pacts is difficult to get, because of a formula that takes prices rather than job losses into account. 
 ''Our industry will disappear before we qualify for any trade assistance money,'' Mr. Bakker said. ''And it's not like Michigan farmers are against the war on drugs. There are certainly social benefits from trying to curb cocaine production, but why should one industry take it on the chin for it?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ed McKay, above, quit raising asparagus in Othello, Wash., after a Toppenish factory stopped packing the vegetable. R. A. Rasmussen & Sons in Granger still grows asparagus but it does its own packing. (Photographs by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)Map of Washington State highlighting Toppenish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DRUG POLICY (76%); CLOSINGS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (64%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DEL MONTE FOODS CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (58%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (58%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (58%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



534 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 28; THE NONTRADITIONALISTS

LENGTH: 2500 words

HEADLINE: A Different Course

BYLINE: By John Schwartz. 
John Schwartz covers technology for The Times.

 BODY:
You've seen the ads on billboards and the bus. They make the process of getting a degree online look almost cozy: earn an M.B.A. in your pajamas and fuzzy slippers. The reality is a little, well, blearier. 
 Take Frank Grande Jr., who is working on a business degree from the University of Massachusetts from his home in White Plains. His day begins at 6 a.m. with an hour commute from suburban New York to his job as a stock trader in New Jersey, where working the market from 9:30 to 4 leaves most people drained. ''It's not something for the faint of heart,'' he says. He commutes another hour to get home -- two, if traffic is bad. 
 His wife, Alicia, places broadcast advertising from home while taking care of their two children. Alicia and Frank don't see much of each other, and Mr. Grande can't help around the house as much as he did before going for the degree. ''But she understands,'' he says. ''She knows it's something I really want to do.'' 
 One recent evening he comes home to find Jakey-Boy, his 3-year-old, there to greet him. Jake informs his father that he has wet his pants. Once that crisis is resolved and the children on their way to bed, Mr. Grande is left to study. He heads upstairs, opening a baby gate and sidestepping a squeezy toy along the way. School is in session -- ''if I don't fall asleep on the couch first.'' 
 Students like Frank Grande are, virtually, everywhere, whether taking courses entirely online, as he does from UMass, or at campuses of for-profit companies like DeVry Inc. or the Apollo Group, which owns the University of Phoenix. 
 Today, 1 in 12 college students attends a for-profit institution, and the business has grown to $23 billion in annual revenue for 2002, the latest year analyzed by Eduventures, an education market research company in Boston. The University of Phoenix alone has about 201,000 full-time adult students at 142 campuses and learning centers. Enrollment in for-profit institutions is growing at three times the rate of nonprofit colleges and universities, says Sean Gallagher, an analyst with Eduventures. 
 A big part of that growth is in online education. ''Each time we update our forecasts, we find that the online education market is growing a little bit larger than we anticipated,'' Mr. Gallagher says. 
 According to a study last year by the Sloan Consortium, a nonprofit association whose mission is to improve online education, more than 1.6 million students took online courses in 2002; nearly 600,000 of them took all their classes in cyberspace. More than a third of higher education institutions offer online courses, and 97 percent of public universities do. 
 The education market didn't always look so rosy. Not that long ago, traditional colleges came to envision nontraditional education as a potential cash cow. Prominent universities like New York University and Temple rushed in with the creation of for-profit subsidiaries that promised to blend ivory-tower class and dot-com nimbleness. But by 2001, most of those highly touted experiments had failed. Columbia's for-profit program, Fathom, which offered online courses in partnership with institutions like the University of Michigan and the University of Chicago, folded early last year. Less grand online programs continue. 
 What went wrong? For one, new courses proved far more expensive to develop and run than anticipated. And the if-you-build-it-they-will-come sensibility of the dot-com years was as ill suited for higher education as it was for most businesses. Jared Bleak, who has studied the for-profit education market as a postdoctoral researcher at Harvard, says that the earlier failures came from a fatal disconnect between the educational mission of the traditional universities and the entrepreneurial notion of ginning up a quick for-profit business that could provide an entirely new endowment. 
 ''It's really a cultural conflict at the core,'' he says. They also fizzled, says Carol A. Twigg, executive director of the Center for Academic Transformation at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, because ''there was no there there to begin with.''
 In fact, online programs at traditional universities like UMass and the University of Maryland University College, which had built organically on existing distance-learning programs, were quietly booming as nonprofit ventures. 
ONE of the classic mistakes that a company makes as it feels its way into a new business is a failure to fundamentally rethink content and process -- in this case, course material being put online. Adult learners want their education quick and to the point. Successful programs offer a kind of education that might strike some as downmarket.
 ''We're meeting their needs,'' says Jack M. Wilson, president of the University of Massachusetts. ''We're not trying to force them into a model.'' Enrollment at UMassOnline grew 32 percent in the fiscal year that ends June 31; its estimated 15,000 online students bring in nearly $13 million for the university.
 For-profit companies have similar success stories to tell, thanks in no small part to a weak economy that drives workers back to school to upgrade skills and credentials. For instance, Strayer University, which began 112 years ago as a business college in Baltimore, now serves students online and on 27 campuses in six states and the District of Columbia. It has repeatedly made Forbes magazine's list of 200 best small companies, and was one of five for-profit education companies (with Apollo Group, Corinthian Colleges, Career Education and ITT Educational Services) on Business Week's list of the top 25 ''Hot Growth Companies'' last year. 
 Mr. Wilson says that a field with winners and losers should come as no surprise. ''History tells us this is always what happens when there's a new paradigm -- some people figure it out and some people don't,'' he says. ''It's about execution.'' 
 With growth has come greater acceptance. ''Nontraditional education is becoming traditional,'' Mr. Wilson says. He should know -- his previous job was running UMassOnline.
 Increasingly, students are finding that ivy walls do not a college make. There is certainly no ivy on the walls of the conference rooms at the Hilton hotel in Alexandria, where the University of Phoenix has set up temporary quarters while preparing its latest northern Virginia campus. On a recent night near 10 o'clock, classes are breaking up and about 20 students stream out of a computer science class. Just before ending the lesson, the teacher, Lawrence Wallace, encourages the students to get in touch if they have problems with the material. ''If you get stuck during the week, don't hesitate to send me an e-mail,'' he says. 
 The class is diverse. A woman in camouflage fatigues and Army boots -- the genuine article, not thrift-store look-alikes -- leaves about the same time as an elegant woman with a Louis Vuitton bag and just ahead of Jason Hoopingarner, a 23-year-old construction manager who started his college career five years ago at Radford University, near Roanoke, but dropped out after two years. ''I need to work full time,'' he says. ''I've got an infant son. This fit perfectly.''
 Fitting perfectly is what continuing education strives for. A big part of the business plan is to strip away the elements of a traditional college that cost so much: fancy campuses, dormitories, athletic complexes, tenured faculty and the pond that shows up in every brochure. At the same time, the institutions strip away things that can be frustrating to students -- the commute, parking woes, long lines at registration, inconvenient class times. They focus on what in the business world is called customer service, often nonexistent at traditional colleges. ''They tend to be better at student services than traditional institutions are,'' Dr. Twigg says. ''Adult students are more demanding. You can still push kids around.''
 That lesson has been carefully learned at Sylvan Learning Systems, which runs Walden University in the virtual world. Most of the students are 35 to 42 years of age, says Paula Singer, the company's president and chief executive. ''They want to be treated in a very specific way.'' Describing a world in terms that sound more like Nordstrom than ivory tower, Ms. Singer says, ''If you can make the consumer and end user side of the experience seamless, then they can focus on the learning.'' In the blended language of Sylvan, the student ombudsman is called a concierge. 
 ''We believe, even though we have this high-tech approach, it can be done with a high-touch equivalent,'' she says. 
 It's such marketing newspeak that raises hackles among traditionalists, who see the new companies serving up tools and training while sacrificing the ideals of higher education for the bottom line. Philosophy? The meaning of life? You're in the wrong ed shop. 
 ''Do they serve a niche? Sure. Are they legitimate institutions of higher education? We remain unconvinced,'' says Stephen Wollmer, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Association, which represents teachers in the state's community colleges. The group fought to keep the University of Phoenix from opening a campus in the state. It was a six-year, off-and-on battle. Things got nasty: at one point, Phoenix lawyers sent a threatening letter to the teachers' union demanding they stop using the phrase ''diploma mill'' when describing Phoenix. For one, the group opposes the university's policy of not granting faculty tenure or the academic freedom to choose course content. 
 ''Caveat emptor,'' Mr. Wollmer says. 
 After working extensively with the state, Phoenix expects to open a campus this summer in Jersey City, on the Hudson River waterfront. A nearby PATH train station will facilitate commuting from New York, which is so far Phoenix-less. (An application for a campus, possibly on Long Island, is working through the state's regulatory process.) 
 Forty percent of the faculty in Jersey City will be full time, substantially higher than most of the company's other programs, where the teachers pride themselves on being dirt-under-the-fingernails professionals. Phoenix will also pay $25,000 a year for its students to use a neighboring college library, to comply with state requirements that each college have at least a 50,000-volume library. ''New Jersey wanted to make sure that we would meet all of the standards, and we do,'' says Laura Palmer Noone, Phoenix's president. 
 Traditionalists may be most rattled by the for-profits' stated purpose of providing an education that leads to employment. ''Students are looking for a job outcome,'' says Mr. Gallagher, the education analyst, ''and that's what the for-profit institutions are focused on.'' They do so by building direct relationships with employers and employment agencies. ''The for-profit institutions are very savvy at aligning their offering to employer needs,'' he says, especially since many companies pay for their employees' continuing education. More than half of University of Phoenix students get some reimbursement from their employers. 
 But the analogy to customer service goes only so far, Dr. Noone says. ''Customer service doesn't mean always saying yes,'' she says. ''If people come in and say, 'I want an A,' the answer is not necessarily going to be yes.'' The university tries to strike a balance between rigor and helping students succeed, she says. 
 Students do not have to meet the tough entrance standards of many universities, but Dr. Noone says that is by design. 
 ''We'd like to think that somebody who might not have been successful in school 15 years ago might be successful now,'' she says. About 35 percent fail to complete the program. ''A lot of students who end up not completing the program say that it is because it was too rigorous,'' she says. For others, ''life just gets in the way.'' Children are born or jobs lost, and education goals recede. 
 None of it would work at all without satisfied customers, says Jared Bleak of Harvard. ''At schools like Phoenix,'' he says, ''people get what they paid for, which is training and certificates which yield a promotion or a job.'' Mr. Bleak has a brother who is getting his master's degree through the University of Phoenix. ''He'll end up making a lot more money than me,'' Mr. Bleak says with a laugh. ''I look at my Harvard degree and say, 'Man! What went wrong?'''
 For his part, Mr. Hoopingarner is completing a degree at Phoenix started in his teenage years. He says his previous college experience was ''like an assembly line.'' 
 ''It's so personal here,'' he says. ''It makes it easier.'' He credits knowledgeable small classes. ''It's not sitting in an auditorium with 200 other students,'' he says. 
 He thought about applying to George Mason University in Fairfax, Va. But before things got rolling, the Phoenix marketing department got hold of his phone number when he made some Internet inquiries and ''gave me a spiel about the accelerated package.'' What would take two years' worth of work at George Mason could be done in half the time through Phoenix, the saleswoman said.
 Mr. Hoopingarner says it is tough starting work at a construction site at 5:30 and ending the day with classes that run until 10 p.m., but he has a goal. He hopes that a degree in business administration will help him as he takes a larger role in his family's construction business. ''I've got to deal with it for another year,'' he says.
 Like Mr. Grande, Mr. Hoopingarner says a big problem is getting enough rest. On a recent evening, his wife had a friend visiting from Australia, and he invited a friend over to the house, too. Mrs. Hoopingarner popped their wedding video into the VCR to show them. ''The next thing I know, I'm passed out on the couch with three people around me,'' he says, clearly embarrassed.
 But he wants to put effort into his degree this time, and works harder than he ever did at the traditional college. ''The classes I'm taking now blow those out of the water,'' he says. ''It's so much more demanding. I feel that I'm walking away with a lot more from it, too.''
 Mr. Grande, a big guy with dark hair and an engaging, Rodney Dangerfield delivery, is making up for a gap in his resume that has left him with a feeling of unfinished business. 
 Some people find their adult college with a Google search. When Mr. Grande decided to go back to school, he worried about the diploma-mill trap. ''I wanted something real,'' he says. ''Then I saw UMass and thought, 'You know, that's a real school! They have a basketball team and everything!'''
 His first attempt to get a degree, at Westchester Community College, had not gone well. ''I was more worried about going out at night than with going to class in the morning,'' he says. ''I didn't really take it seriously.'' 
 Now, some 15 years later, he has a wife, a job, a home and two children, and he is a more serious person. ''Since I started going back and paying for it myself, it's not, 'Will I pass with a C?' I want the A!'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Grande Jr. is working toward a business degree at the University of Massachusetts from his home in White Plains -- sometimes with the help of his 3-year-old, Jake. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick)
 The University of Phoenix hopes to open in Jersey City in June. Above, a rendering of the building it will share. (Photograph by Mark Wyville)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MARKET SIZE (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DEVRY INC (82%); APOLLO GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%)

TICKER: DV (NYSE) (82%); APOL (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611410 BUSINESS & SECRETARIAL SCHOOLS (82%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (82%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



535 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Rue John Kennedy

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I was at a dinner the other night and was introduced to a lovely Lebanese woman. We started reminiscing about the good old days in Lebanon and I asked her where she lived in Beirut. She said it was in a building off ''Rue John Kennedy.'' I stopped her immediately. ''Rue John Kennedy?'' I said, rolling over the words in my mind. ''I forgot there was a time when they actually named streets in the Arab world for an American president.''
 Will there ever be a street in Baghdad named after George W. Bush or any U.S. president? The fact that even asking the question today seems absurd tells you how far things have deteriorated. Indeed, the question I am asking myself is this: Has America become so radioactive in the Arab-Muslim world that we glow in the dark -- and therefore it is dangerous for anyone to walk the streets with us, let alone name one after a U.S. president? Has America become so radioactive that Iraqi democracy and a prolonged American presence in Iraq have become a contradiction, not a necessity? 
 Consider what happened in Basra on Wednesday: Some residents spontaneously stoned British troops coming to rescue Iraqi schoolgirls who were caught up in the suicide bombings of Basra police stations. These were our best friends in Iraq -- the Shiites -- stoning the British, while they were trying to rescue Iraqi children attacked by Islamist terrorists.
 That's what we're now up against. It is the wrath of a local population that has begun to view its liberators as worse than occupiers -- because they can't even provide what tyranny does, i.e. control and security, which are the necessary foundations for economic or political development. That people would stone their would-be rescuers is also a reminder of how broken, traumatized and messed up Iraqi society is by decades of Saddam's rule, and of how it is caught up in some of the same anti-Western conspiracy theories that you can find on any Arab street today.
 But here's what else I'm sure of: If today you asked the same Iraqis who threw stones whether they would like the Americans or British to leave, or regret that they came, they would tell you no. They still really want us to succeed. But the only chance we have of doing that is if we look at our situation, and the real nature of Iraq, right in the eye -- something that the Bush Pentagon has been criminally negligent in doing. (This is the real intelligence failure in Iraq -- a failure of common sense.)
 We are now in the middle of a low-grade civil war in Iraq for who will control the place after we leave. That's the bad news. Here's the good news: I doubt we will be in Iraq a year from now -- certainly not in large numbers. One of three things is likely to happen. First, the security and economic situations could continue to spiral downward, creating a Mogadishu-like situation in which we will have to fight our way out.
 Second, we might manage, with the help of the U.N., to organize a reasonably legitimate Iraqi caretaker government to which we can hand ''limited'' sovereignty on June 30. But that won't stop our opponents. They will go on attacking U.S. forces to provoke a U.S. retaliation that will embarrass the caretaker government, make its leaders look like our stooges and pressure it to throw the U.S. out.
 Third, the least-bad scenario is that we will be able to stick it out and, with the U.N., conduct a decent election by the end of the year that brings a legitimate Shiite-led Iraqi government to power. I doubt that such a government is going to want to have U.S. troops protecting it for very long, and it will either invite us to leave gradually or insist that we put our forces under a U.N. umbrella.
 To even get to this stage, though, the Bush team can't make another mistake in Iraq and needs to remedy all those it has made. A good start was made on Friday when the administration effectively conceded its error in disbanding the Iraqi army and firing too many low-level former Baathists, and began reaching out to them. One hopes this is part of a wider understanding that the first freely elected Iraqi government will be, at best, fragile, insecure and therefore highly nationalistic. You don't get from Saddam to Jefferson without going through a little Khomeini and Nasser -- not in this neighborhood -- and we're going to have to let Iraqis find their own path through this maze.
 We have to be in this for the long haul -- for that moment down the road, when, after we get out of their faces and they work through their issues, they invite us back. Only then might they want to name a street after an American president. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (86%); IRAQ WAR (75%); BOMBINGS (66%); CIVIL WAR (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); ARMED FORCES (51%); NEGLIGENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



536 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17; TELEVISION

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Extreme Dubbing Challenge

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN

DATELINE: STUDIO CITY, Calif. 

 BODY:
AT a time when so much of television is dominated by grown-up fantasies -- finding favor with Donald Trump, tying the knot with a hunk or a babe, having surgery to look more like Britney Spears -- it's nice to know there are still new shows driven by the mayhem-centered sensibility of the 14-year-old boy. A case in point: ''Most Extreme Elimination Challenge,'' the sleeper hit that begins its new season this week on Spike TV.
 From its gleefully histrionic title to its ''Airplane''-style gag quotient, ''Most Extreme Elimination Challenge,'' also known as ''MXC,'' is a relentless exercise in shtick. The premise is simple: footage from a late-80's Japanese game show called ''Takeshi's Castle,'' featuring dozens of ridiculously costumed contestants running obstacle courses, and usually tumbling headfirst into pools of mud, in their attempt to ''storm'' a stronghold and win prizes like toaster ovens -- is given an entirely new, double-entendre-laden English soundtrack. The new dialogue bears no relation to the original because none of the ''MXC'' writing team speaks a word of Japanese. 
 One of the show's creators describes it as ''Fear Factor'' meets ''Iron Chef,'' but what it most closely resembles is the young Woody Allen's seminal epic of dubbed nonsense, ''What's Up, Tiger Lily?'' In a typical scene, a woman in a cape stumbles across a finish line, where she is accosted by a leering interviewer in a pith helmet who's been renamed Guy. The two highly excited Japanese characters then have a conversation in unaccented English:
 ''What's your name and occupation?''
 ''Hillary Spank. I'm an unemployed phone sex operator.''
 ''I used to use phone sex until I got an ear infection.''
 ''I'll give you a better infection!''
 The pair then tumble into a trough of what appears to be corn starch as Hillary giggles, ''I'm charging you $4.95 a minute for this!'' And a play-by-play announcer soberly intones, ''Once again, Guy's not afraid to ask the hard questions.''
 So ''MXC'' goes, nonstop. ''I have a 14-year-old boy, and he and his friends love the show,'' says Paul Abeyta, an executive producer. ''We're sort of writing this show for 14-year-old boys.'' ''MXC'' may traffic in scatological gags and sophomoric puns, but it does so at an ingeniously breakneck pace, and it's doing increasingly well in the 18-to-49 demographic -- and even drawing a relatively large proportion (45 percent) of female viewers.
 The show made its debut a year ago, as the TNN cable channel was becoming Spike TV (a process slowed by a legal challenge from Spike Lee). Barely promoted by the network, which was instead pushing celebrity-voiced animation series like Kelsey Grammer's ''Gary the Rat'' and Pamela Anderson's ''Stripperella,'' its first episodes drew low ratings. But ''MXC'' soon built an enthusiastic audience, apparently by word of mouth. A Yahoo newsgroup started by a viewer now has more than 5,000 members, some of them dedicated to transcribing entire episodes. Ratings quadrupled, and it became Spike's second-most-watched show after W.W.E. wrestling. Spike started programming frequent marathons of the show; one episode drew its highest rating, a cable benchmark 1.0, on its 15th broadcast.
 ''This is a show that builds rather than bursts,'' said Albie Hecht, the president of Spike TV. ''Forty percent of the online traffic at the Spike Web site goes to the 'MXC' section -- where there's nothing! There's nothing there. It's people coming to try to find out about this.''
 The Americanization of the show is perpetrated in two small rooms in a Studio City bungalow. In one of those rooms on a recent morning, the entire cast and writing team -- six people -- sat around a table watching scenes from an episode of ''Takeshi's Castle'' as Mr. Abeyta directed the playback from a laptop keyboard. He, the script supervisor, Herb Goss, and the four actor-writers who voice all the characters -- Victor Wilson, Christopher Darga, Mary Scheer and John Cervenka -- riffed on possible lines for a female contestant who stumbled as she approached the starting line. They had decided that she was competing for the Baby Products Industry team. Ms. Scheer offered, ''I just gave birth to twins!'' Mr. Darga added, ''I'm a surrogate, and I just gave birth to twins!'' Mr. Cervenka tried, ''I just gave birth to twins, and another is crowning as we speak!''
 The collegial round-robin would continue all day, until a rough outline for the episode had been written down -- scores and scores of gags, each one honed until deemed worthy by consensus. One rule governs the dialogue: in a series in which virtually everyone who appears onscreen is Japanese, ''there's never an Asian reference,'' Mr. Abeyta said.
 The group's can-you-top-this bonhomie was that of veteran comedians who have known one another for years. The four performers came up together in the Groundlings, the Los Angeles improv group that feeds talent to shows like ''Mad TV,'' where Ms. Scheer was a cast member. Mr. Abeyta and the other executive producer, Peter Kaikko, are TV journeymen whose most famous show was the 80's syndication warhorse ''Dance Fever.'' The cast is a bit older than one might expect for a cult comedy series on cable, but their chemistry helps lighten the grueling load of generating jokes for dozens of characters per episode. ''It's not work,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''Usually you're just a writer or just an actor, but here you improvise everything from beginning to end.''
 After the hours of improvisation, the outline must be further refined. Mr. Wilson and Mr. Darga spent a good part of the next day by themselves writing dialogue for their primary characters, the hosts and play-by-play commentators Vic Romano and Kenny Blankenship -- dubbed versions of the hosts, who trade banter in traditional Japanese costume, surrounded by a coterie of young men who do little more than listen blankly. One of the original hosts was (is) Takeshi Kitano, also known as Beat Takeshi, the Japanese comedian, TV personality and director and star of hard-boiled cop and gangster films. (His latest movie, ''Zatoichi,'' a comedic remake of the samurai classic, is to open in the United States in June.) He is said to enjoy this reincarnation of his old Tokyo Broadcasting System game show, which was clearly quite wacky in its own right.
 For ''MXC,'' Mr. Wilson and Mr. Darga turn Mr. Kitano and his partner into pitch-perfect simulacra of American sportscasters. In the tiny recording studio the next day they called the action for the episode, providing a play-by-play that would seem spontaneous onscreen but was a painstaking stop-and-go process, with dozens of cuts and insertions meant not only to find just the right wording for a throwaway quip, but also to match the ''lip flap'' and hand gestures of the original Japanese performers. It took 10 minutes to do the narration of a five-second pratfall. (''Our next contestant is Claire Voyeur -- she looks into people's minds through a hole in the wall -- and, oh! Kenny, down she goes.'' 'She sure didn't see that coming!'')
 Later, the other cast members gathered. Mr. Cervenka delivered the unparsable signature opening (''What are these people running from? They're not! They're running to -- the world's toughest competition in town!'') and gave voice to his characters, including the polymorphously perverse Guy. ''Guy will make creepy, suggestive remarks to anyone, man or woman,'' Mr. Cervenka explained, ''but I don't think he'd ever actually do it with anybody.'' Ms. Scheer voiced all the female characters and was particularly adept at alternating their giggling fits with their cries of pain as they were run over by giant papier-mache boulders. Soon the entire cast and whoever happened to be standing around in the hallway jammed in to provide cheering, crowd noise and grunts of exertion. The sound engineer, Patrick Grandclaudon, recorded layer upon layer of comedic business to create a densely nonsensical sonic world, and finally the assembled group performed the sign-off cry, ''Don't get eliminated!'' Four days' work was finished, a marathon of intricate scripting and dubbing to achieve the effect of a bunch of frat boys tossing off puerile gags.
 And the formula seems to work. College students are holding ''MXC'' viewing parties, and last month in Orlando, Fla., students actually recreated stunts from the show. Their efforts were taped and have already appeared as an ''MXC Almost Live'' special (with dubbed dialogue, of course). Tokyo Broadcasting has licensed ''Takeshi's Castle'' for dubbed versions in Britain and Australia. And here, ''MXC'' will kick off its new season of 26 shows on Thursday night with its first stab at topicality, an election-themed episode titled, with appropriate grossness, ''Squeeze Out the Vote.'' The humor will surely be political, but only to a point. It will still be served up just the way the 14-year-old boy in all of us likes it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: When people fall on ''MXC,'' the cries of pain aren't theirs. (Photo by David Nations/Spike TV)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (73%); BRITNEY SPEARS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



537 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5; ECONOMY

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Degrees of Unemployment

BYLINE: By ADRIENNE LU

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
ROSE PHILLIPS knows that her job prospects are fairly bleak. A 10th-grade high school dropout, her resume consists of a long string of entry-level jobs -- receptionist, office cleaner and cashier -- patched together while she raised her son and two grandsons.
 But Ms. Phillips did not expect that her niece, Yvonne Lightfoot, who graduated from Rutgers with a degree in business administration in 1992 and was laid off in December, would also struggle with unemployment. 
 ''I'm surprised at the number of college grads that are looking,'' said Ms. Phillips, 56, standing outside a career development center on Broad Street in Newark.
 Ms. Lightfoot is in good company. According to figures made public earlier this month by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, more college graduates than high school dropouts were unemployed in March, a relatively new phenomenon in the United States. The number of unemployed college graduates reached 1.17 million, edging out the number of unemployed high school dropouts at 1.09 million, among people who were at least 25 years old in both categories, the bureau reported. New Jersey does not keep comparable statistics. 
 ''Five years ago, these folks were being swept away the minute they came off the podiums with their diplomas,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist with the Economic Policy Institute, a nonprofit research group based in Washington. ''That's certainly not the case now.''
 In an analysis published last month, Mr. Bernstein noted that unemployed college graduates first overtook those without high school diplomas in December 2001, and that the two groups have flip-flopped for the dubious distinction ever since.
 One reason is that more than a quarter of all Americans who are 25 and older -- more than ever before -- now have four-year college degrees, according to the Census Bureau. Almost 27 percent of adults 25 or older have college degrees, while almost 16 percent in that age range did not complete high school. 
 Despite the rise in the number of unemployed college graduates, labor experts say that college still pays off. College graduates earn more over the course of their working lives than those without bachelor's degrees, the experts say.
 ''There's still an enormous premium attached to having a degree,'' said Carl Van Horn, director of the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers. 
 College graduates are likely to endure shorter periods of unemployment, he said. And even though unemployed college graduates outnumber unemployed high school dropouts, their unemployment rate is actually lower. In March the unemployment rate for college graduates who were at least 25 years old was 2.9 percent, compared with 8.8 percent for those who did not finish high school, Mr. Bernstein said. 
 Also, college graduates are paid more on average than those who did not graduate from high school. For example, among full-time workers who are 25 and older, college graduates earned a median weekly income of $964 in 2003, compared with $396 for high school dropouts, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 But for Sukhnoor Taluja, 24, who graduated from Rutgers with dual majors in information technology and economics in January 2003, lifelong earnings potential is of little solace. 
 Ms. Taluja, who is currently a temp worker, was unable to find a job after graduation, and returned home to Cherry Hill to live with her parents. Although her resume lists a plethora of computer skills and internships, temp jobs and campus positions, she could not find the type of job she'd hoped to get in the music industry, and has broadened her search considerably.
 Some days, the job search is disheartening, she said. ''I haven't really gotten that many callbacks or anything,'' she said. ''It's discouraging. You get really put down. You're like, 'What's wrong with me?''' 
 Ms. Taluja and her peers are facing a mixed job picture. 
 An estimated 308,000 jobs were added to the economy in March, the largest number of new jobs for any month since April 2000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 But the numbers mask the recent downturn in industries including financial services, professional services, information technology and manufacturing. Unemployment, which tends to lag behind other figures, rose to 5.7 percent, from 5.6 percent. In fact, in the fourth quarter of 2003, the employment rate among college graduates from 25 to 35 years of age was 84 percent, down from 87 percent in 2000 and the lowest rate for that group since the late 1970's, when statistics were first recorded.
 In New Jersey, Lucent Technologies has cut about two-thirds of its workforce since 2000, eliminating some 71,000 jobs. Bank mergers and the bursting of the Internet bubble eliminated even more white-collar jobs.
 Another factor, Mr. Bernstein said, is that some white-collar jobs that college graduates typically fill are being exported to foreign countries, a practice known as offshoring. Experts disagree about the impact that offshoring has on the United States labor market; job loss estimates typically range from a quarter million to a half million jobs over the past several years.
 Also, Mr. Van Horn said, the rate of technological change is so fast that by the time students learn which jobs are needed, the market may have already shifted. 
 According to a survey by the National Association of College and Employers, a Bethlehem, Pa., nonprofit that provides information to career services professionals, employers expect to hire 12.7 percent more new college graduates this year than they did last year. The numbers were the most encouraging in the Northeast, where employers said they planned to hire 15.3 percent more college graduates.
 In New Jersey, particularly in the New York metropolitan region, they may face stiff competition, since a higher percentage of the population in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have college degrees than nationwide, according to the federal Department of Commerce.
 Richard White, director of career services at Rutgers University's New Brunswick campus, said that more young alumni were returning to his office for career advice.
 However, this year's seniors may actually be better prepared for the job hunt because they've already watched their friends battle the job market, Mr. White said.
 ''Our sense is that these students 'get it' more than their predecessors of the last couple of years, in terms of getting out there, starting early, getting some support and assistance while they're still on campus,'' he said. ''They've seen what has happened to their peers.''
 Ms. Phillips, meanwhile, is planning to obtain her G.E.D. Her niece, Ms. Lightfoot, 34, is also considering going back to school.
 ''It seems like I might need to go back to school for another degree,'' Ms. Lightfoot said. ''Really, now, it seems like it doesn't matter if you have a bachelor's degree.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rose Phillips, a dropout who is considering getting a G.E.D., hopes for better luck than her niece, an unemployed Rutgers graduate. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



538 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Does Dallas And Boston

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE economy looks good now. But whose fault will it be if business activity weakens as the presidential election approaches? 
 Some conflicting answers can be found in the Federal Reserve's Beige Book, published before each meeting of the central bank's open market committee. 
 The book includes reports from each Federal Reserve district, based in large part on interviews with local business executives. 
 The Beige Book released last week showed subtle differences in the views of those sounded out in the Boston district, home of Senator John Kerry, and in the Dallas district, from which President Bush hails, a fact that was noted by Tom Schlesinger, a Fed watcher at the Financial Markets Center, a liberal research group in Philomont, Va. 
 ''Businesses are mostly optimistic that demand for their products will keep increasing throughout the year,'' reported the Boston Fed. ''However, they also express some caution and uncertainty in the face of continuing geopolitical instability, the upcoming U.S. presidential election and the possibility of rising interest rates.''
 In other words, they were worried about the war in Iraq. 
 In Dallas, too, there is optimism and uncertainty, but ''geopolitical instability'' isn't the cause of the latter. 
 ''In general,'' reported the Dallas Fed, ''contacts are optimistic about the outlook for activity, but remain cautious, noting concerns that the upcoming presidential election will likely result in a lot of negative press about the economy that could dampen activity.'' 
 In other words, don't blame Iraq if business turns bad. Blame the economic naysayers (from Boston?) and the news media that report on what they have to say. FLOYD NORRIS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); IRAQ WAR (66%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



539 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26; CAMPAIGN 2004

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Political Points

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY; Courtney C. Radsch contributed reporting for this column.

 BODY:

Talking the Talk But Burning Big
 ON the occasion of Earth Day, President Bush and Senator John Kerry boldly declared themselves pro-Earth. But promoting ecologically correct public policy is not enough to believers in the environmentalist adage, ''Think globally, act locally.'' How green is each candidate in his personal life?
 The presidential candidates preach energy conservation, but they both burn a lot of fossil fuels as they travel among their eight homes (three for Mr. Bush, five for Mr. Kerry and his wife). Air Force One is a Boeing 747 modified to carry just 85 people, less than a quarter of the number of passengers that airlines squeeze into their versions. Nonetheless, said several aviation experts, under most conditions Mr. Bush's plane would still use less fuel per passenger-mile than a Gulfstream II, the jet owned by Mr. Kerry's wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry.
 Mr. Kerry's energy use on the ground became a political issue after he said to reporters on Earth Day, ''I don't own an S.U.V.'' Asked about the Chevrolet Suburban at his home in Ketchum, Idaho, he replied that it belonged to his wife. ''The family has it,'' he said, The Associated Press reported. ''I don't have it.'' 
 The Republican National Committee responded with a news release, headlined, ''The Boston Fog Rolls Over Kerry's Chevy Suburban,'' noting Mr. Kerry's support for higher fuel-efficiency standards and pointing out that the Suburban gets 16 miles per gallon. But that is still slightly better than the fuel economy of the Cadillac limousine Mr. Bush uses in Washington and the Ford F520 pickup truck he drives at his ranch in Crawford, Tex.
 Mr. Bush's fondness for taking a chain saw to the trees at his ranch doesn't do much for his environmentalist image, especially when he goes on to burn them, thereby releasing greenhouse gases. But he has an excuse, said Ken Walsh, who toured the ranch with Mr. Bush while researching a book about presidential homes.
 ''He seems to be just fixated with clearing cedar because he's been told the cedar strangles other plants and drains water away from them,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''They're trying to restore the place to its natural state with native plants.'' The Bushes also like to show off the energy-saving features at the ranch, including a geothermal heat pump.
 Mr. Kerry has generally been an outspoken supporter of renewable energy, but he faces a tricky problem at his home in Nantucket, Mass., where some of his neighbors are trying to stop the construction of a large wind farm, which is supported by environmental groups. The neighbors say it will be too noisy and create an eyesore. Mr. Kerry says he is ready to support the project but with a big caveat: He is waiting to see the environmental impact statement.

Pentagon Discloses Woodward Style
 BOB WOODWARD has yet to write a how-to guide like ''The Seven Secrets to Secret Sources'' or ''Interview Styles of the Great and Powerful,'' but a few tips are now available thanks to the Pentagon's release of transcripts of his interviews with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. An analysis reveals some techniques of the well-connected journalist. 
 Nod frequently. To get ahead, Mr. Woodward repeatedly offers Mr. Rumsfeld encouragements like ''I agree,'' ''Well said,'' ''That's great,'' ''Thank God,'' ''No question,'' ''I am totally in sync with you on that'' and ''I totally understand exactly what you're saying.'' When Mr. Rumsfeld mentions the ''enormous numbers of hours'' spent by Mr. Bush deciding on the war, Mr. Woodward replies: ''It's an exercise in patience, not impatience. Would you agree withthat?'' He gets no quarrel.
 Praise his boss. ''Whether you like what the president did or don't like it, it is one of the gutsiest calls in history,'' Mr. Woodward says, alluding to the decision to go to war. He marvels at the many briefings of Mr. Bush and says, ''He really had his hands in it, didn't he?'' Mr. Rumsfeld adds his own dollops, telling how he and his wife ''invariably'' return from an evening at the White House and say, ''Isn't that just a delight to be working with a person who is that way, who is that straightforward, that open, that comfortable with himself, that rooted -- that has the confidence, courage, I guess the words you've used.''
 Drop names. Mr. Woodward keeps reminding Mr. Rumsfeld of all the people he has already interviewed, like Tommy Franks, the commander of the war: ''I spent four hours with General Franks, which someone said is 10 times more than he spent with anyone else.''
 When all else fails, drop the big one. After listening to Mr. Rumsfeld complain about his questions, Mr. Woodward resorts to the classic I'll-tell-the-teacher technique. ''I have a good relationship with President Bush,'' he says, ''and he wants me to do this, I think, as you know.''


GRAPHIC: Illustrations (Illustrations by Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WIND ENERGY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); AIRLINES (74%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (74%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



540 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Google Goes Public? Search for 'Rich Get Richer'

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
Tiger Woods has his small stake. So do Shaquille O'Neal, Henry A. Kissinger and Arnold Schwarzenegger. All can be counted among that small club of people lucky enough to own a sliver of Google, one of the hottest companies in Silicon Valley and what could be the hottest deal on Wall Street this year.
 Michael S. Ovitz, once a top Hollywood agent, pulled strings in an effort to enter a pool that was being offered to a group of rich investors and would eventually own a small piece of Google. But that was in the late 1990's, and apparently his star was already fading. Mr. Ovitz was turned away. 
 The question of if and when Google, the world's most popular search engine, might finally proceed with an initial offering of shares to the public has captivated Silicon Valley in recent days. That is because it nears a deadline this week to provide a financial disclosure document required under the 1934 securities law. 
 The company has not declared its intentions, but Google is the most anticipated public offering since the dot-com bubble burst four years ago. 
 People speculate. People dream. And if the numbers are to be believed, people will drool. The current prediction is that Google, if it decides to sell shares to investors this year, would probably end up with a market value of $20 billion to $25 billion by the end of its first day as a publicly traded company. 
 A $25 billion market value would instantly make Google worth more than Lockheed Martin, the big military contractor; Federal Express, the package delivery service; or Nike, the sports clothing maker. 
 As a great many people have learned the hard way in recent years, things don't always happen as the experts predict, especially when a company is involved in the high-risk realm of technology.
 ''It's bound to happen,'' Andy Bechtolsheim, who was the first person outside the company to invest in Google, said of the long-awaited public offering. Mr. Bechtolsheim, a founder of Sun Microsystems, said he owns a little more than 1 percent of Google. Assuming a huge opening day, the $200,000 he invested in Google in 1998 could be worth at least $300 million. Not everyone would fare as well. Many own a small stake in Google through an investment syndicate that included lots of Internet failures, and would stand to make only a modest profit on their total investment, if anything. 
 The list of those expected to profit handsomely if Google proceeds with an initial public offering certainly includes the usual suspects. Start with the company's two young founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, who started Google as graduate students at Stanford and are known affectionately as ''the boys'' among Silicon Valley insiders.
 Mr. Brin and Mr. Page, now in their early 30's, together own an estimated one-third to one half of Google, depending on which insider's number deserves credence.
 ''In a way, it doesn't make a difference whether the boys own a third of the company or half,'' said a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who spoke on the condition he not be identified because Google is a secretive company. ''We're all living in a Google world now. You can safely say,'' he said, that ''both of them will be worth in the many billions.'' 
 Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital, the two venture capital firms that invested in Google in June 1999, just as Google was becoming a daily tool of the digital elite, each own 11 percent to 14 percent of the company, several Silicon Valley venture capitalists say. 
 The list of institutions that stand to make a small fortune from Google includes two of its potential rivals, America Online, now part of Time Warner, and Yahoo.
 ''People made fun of Yahoo for its licensing deal,'' said an executive at a search-related start-up company that is a partner with Yahoo and Google, who insisted on anonymity to avoid spoiling his relationships. ''They helped to create a big competitor. But this deal that hurts them strategically will make the company a lot of money.'' 
 Yahoo invested $10 million several years ago, when Google was the search engine powering Yahoo's operations on its Web portal. Yahoo owns a small stake, a person who has seen the terms of the deal said.
 Under a different deal struck in 2002, America Online has the right to buy nearly two million shares of Google for roughly $22 million, according to Time Warner.
 A list of the others who stand to be enriched should Google go public seems to prove that the rich get richer. It reads like a ''Who's Who'' of Silicon Valley insiders, including Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker now on trial in Manhattan on charges of obstruction of justice and witness tampering. 
 It includes some of Silicon Valley's greatest entrepreneurial successes, including Marc Andreessen, the founder of Netscape; Pierre M. Omidyar, a founder of eBay; Shawn Fanning, the creator of Napster; and Bill Joy, the software innovator who recently left Sun Microsystems.
 Stanford, one of the country's richest universities, also stands to add considerably to its bottom line. Mr. Brin and Mr. Page, who met in 1995 at a party for incoming computer science graduate students, worked together on a university-funded data-mining project. During that collaboration, the pair invented the search technology that would eventually be Google's core technology. 
 ''The university owns the technology,'' said Katharine Ku, the director of Stanford's Office of Technology Licensing. ''We license it to Google, which back then was just these two kids. They pay Stanford royalties annually. We also took a bit of stock in the deal.'' 
 Under the terms of that deal, the royalties are evenly split three ways among Mr. Brin and Mr. Page, the computer science department and the university's engineering school. That deal was struck in 1996. 
 For two years, the university tried to license the deal to existing search companies; at least one company ''offered a significant amount of money'' to buy Google, but in 1998 ''the two decided to start their own company.'' 
 Ms. Ku declined to share the terms of the licensing deal, which is still in effect, or to speculate on the potential value of the university's equity stake. 
 David R. Cheriton, a computer science professor at Stanford, introduced Mr. Bechtolsheim to Google's founders. In August 1998, the four sat on the porch of Mr. Cheriton's Palo Alto home, where Mr. Page and Mr. Brin tried to demonstrate their product for Mr. Bechtolsheim. Before the pair could finish, he had decided to write them the first of two $100,000 checks.
 ''They needed money to pay the lawyers to incorporate the company,'' he said. ''And I wanted to make sure I was part of this company.'' 
 The founders raised roughly $1 million that September, including Mr. Bechtolsheim's investment. Other early investors include Mr. Cheriton and Ram Shriram, a former Netscape and Amazon executive.
 ''Basically they needed money to buy the machines so they could prove out the concept,'' Mr. Bechtolsheim said. 
 The company closed on a second round of financing in June 1999. By then, much of Silicon Valley's elite wanted a piece of Google, which had become the default search engine of choice among the area's digerati. 
 That is when Ron Conway and Bob Bozeman, two partners in a venture fund called Angel Investors, discovered Google -- and, according to an investors list prepared by Angel Investors, brought along many famous people, including Mr. Woods and Mr. Kissinger, and some of the Valley's best-connected entrepreneurs and financiers, among them at least five billionaires. 
 A former executive at the personal computer maker Altos Computer Systems, Mr. Conway had been investing his money in Internet start-ups. Enough wealthy friends asked him if they could piggyback on his investments that in late 1998 he created Angel Investors as an Internet index fund that would invest in an array of Web-related start-ups. That year, under the title Angel-1, he raised $30 million; the next year, under Angel-2, $150 million, Ultimately Mr. Conway raised money from more than 500 people, only a few of whom he had known before entering a business relationship.
 Anyone who invested in Angel-1 or Angel-2 owns a small stake in Google, though those in Angel-1 own shares obtained at a much better price (roughly 50 cents a share, compared with $2.34 a share), given that the investments were made six months part. 
 ''If I decide I want something to happen and I'm very motivated,'' Mr. Conway said in 2001. ''I try real hard to make it happen.''
 Mr. Conway, Mr. Bozeman said, is ''the premier elbow guy in the business.'' Mr. Conway declined to comment for this article.
 Based solely on the Google deal, Angel-1 should ''make each of us several times our original investment,'' an investor in both funds said. This investor, who receives updates from Angel Investors, insisted on anonymity because of a confidentiality agreement.
 Most of the companies in which Mr. Conway and Mr. Bozeman invested with money raised in Angel-2 in 1999 and 2000 have gone out of business. But such is the potential power of Google that, though Angel-2 includes nearly 200 worthless investments, an investor said, ''we might actually get our investment back, if not make a little extra.''
 The typical Silicon Valley start-up endures several rounds of venture financing before reaching profitability, and no longer needing additional outside money. With each round the founders' shares are further diluted, until they end up owning only a small share of the company.
 Yet Google raised only one round of venture capital. In June, Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia, two of the Valley's most highly prized venture capitalists, bought a total of roughly one-quarter of the company, according to financial documents spelling out the terms of the deal. There was the deal with Yahoo, and the hiring of a new chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt, in 2001, who undoubtedly received a handsome stock package -- yet one rival venture capitalist marvels at the size of the equity stake the two founders retained. 
 ''That's what makes this deal so unusual,'' the venture capitalist said. ''There's been no almost no dilution of financing. The founders did a first round, they basically did a deal with the C.E.O., there's the deal with Yahoo, and that's it.'' 
 Andrew Anker, an entrepreneur and former venture capitalist, said: ''This is the deal of the century as far as I'm concerned. No matter how you cut it, this will make a lot of people very happy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andy Bechtolsheim (Photo by PRNewsfoto)
Henry A. Kissinger (Photo by Getty Images)
Tiger Woods (Photo by Reuters)
 Shaquille O'Neal (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); SEARCH ENGINES (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (67%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (54%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); LMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (89%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (88%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%); SERGEY BRIN (57%); LARRY PAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



541 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-15

U.S. Facing Decision on Falluja
President Bush and his senior national security and military advisers, facing one of the grimmest choices of the Iraq war, are expected to decide this weekend whether to order an invasion of the city of Falluja, even if a battle there runs the risk of uprisings in the Sunni Muslim city and perhaps elsewhere in Iraq. 1

On a day of widespread bloodshed, at least 28 Iraqis were killed in separate bombing incidents in the Baghdad slum of Sadr City and in Iskandariya, 30 miles south of Baghdad. In Basra, suicide bombers mounted waterborne attacks on the oil terminal, Reuters reported. Two American sailors died. Seven American soldiers were killed in earlier attacks. 10

Many Iraqis who once cautiously supported the United States-led effort to stabilize Iraq are pulling back, a new complication to securing and rebuilding the country. 10

Cyprus Votes on Reunification
Greek Cypriots rejected a United Nations peace plan that would have reunited the Turkish and Greek sides of the island, so Cyprus will enter the European Union on May 1 still divided. 8

Arafat Plays Down Threat
Yasir Arafat played down threats by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel that he might take action against the Palestinian leader. 6

Aftermath of E.U. Expansion
The expansion of the European Union will slowly break down the borders of new member countries, and soon some of the nations of Eastern Europe, closed off for 40 years under Communism, may become magnets for immigration. 4

First Trip for Spanish Leader
Spain's new prime minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, on his first trip abroad, held talks with officials in neighboring Morocco, a country to which Madrid is now bound by a common need to fight terrorism. 8

NATIONAL 16-30

Sept. 11 Air Defense Faulted
The commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks is expected to offer sharp criticism of the Pentagon's domestic air-defense command in the panel's final report, according to commission officials who said they believed that quicker military action might have prevented a hijacked passenger plane from crashing into the Pentagon. 1

Residents-Only Gay Marriage
Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts has decided that same-sex couples who live outside the state will not be able to marry there when gay marriage becomes legal next month. 1

Financial Impact for Guard
The war in Iraq has been particularly hard for the members of the National Guard and the Reserve who have been forced to give up civilian jobs, in some cases, for 20 months. 1

A New Bush Ad Campaign
President Bush's campaign is unleashing a direct assault on Senator John Kerry's national security credentials with a new $10 million advertising drive intended to undermine what both sides describe as Mr. Kerry's potentially greatest asset. 26

Now that Senator John Kerry has made his military records public, his presidential campaign is bracing for an even bigger battle over whether to disclose the tax returns of his wife, whose personal wealth is estimated at more than $500 million. 26

OBITUARIES 40

NEW YORK/REGION 33-38

Report on Garage Collapse
The garage collapse that killed four construction workers and injured 20 others last October during a expansion of the Tropicana Casino and Resort in Atlantic City was caused by the faulty installation of concrete floors after changes were made to the design to speed the job and save money, according to engineers for the contractors and others who have studied the design plans and the debris. 33

Name Game: Win by Losing
Tony Avella, a little-known Queens councilman who is running for mayor next year, acknowledges that he may be a long shot in the 2005 election, but his bid reflects a new way to make your name known in New York City politics: running to lose. 33

Chess 39
Weather 41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); MARRIAGE (84%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); HIJACKING (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); GAYS & LESBIANS (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); CYPRUS (93%); SPAIN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); TURKEY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GREECE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MOROCCO (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



542 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 7; BLACKBOARD: FUND-RAISING

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: They Want To Be in Movies 

BYLINE: By LAURA RANDALL

 BODY:
In one weekend in December, the Harrison School in Los Angeles earned $7,827 and a cameo appearance in the Tom Cruise film ''Collateral.'' In return, school officials let camera crews shoot the exterior for the movie's opening sequence. It was the first time a film crew was allowed onto the campus. But times are tough, says the principal, Marguerite Murphy. She plans to buy playground equipment or computers with the money from the film, which is to open in August. 
 Cash-strapped schools like Harrison have discovered a new source of discretionary income in entertainment studios. The number of Los Angeles-area schools that have volunteered for parts in movies, television shows and commercials has jumped to 65 from 19 in the last two years, according to the Entertainment Industry Development Corporation, an agency that issues film permits in Southern California. In New Jersey, about 150 schools, from Montclair High School to the Lawrenceville School, are listed in the state film commission's database. Many ''are hurting economically and could use the boost,'' says the commission's associate director, Steven Gorelick. New York has no tracking system, but the state film office keeps a file of film-friendly schools for scouts. (Recent shoots include ''School of Rock'' at Buckley Country Day School in Roslyn and ''The Stepford Wives'' at the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry.)
 But not all schools are ready for their close-ups. Some complain about the disruption caused by camera crews, props and teams of extras. ''It can be quite an inconvenience to the daily operation of school,'' says Terrence Brennan, superintendent of schools in Pompton Lakes, N.J., where scenes from the TV series ''Ed'' and the 1997 Kevin Kline comedy ''In & Out'' were shot. And Laguna Beach High School in California recently passed on the chance to earn up to $40,000 from MTV. Parents protested letting MTV cameras on campus, fearing the worst after Janet Jackson exposed a breast during its Super Bowl halftime show. LAURA RANDALL


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by: 1. Ralph Nelson/Universal Studios
2. Ron Batzdorff/Disney Enterprises
3. Gene Page/20th Century Fox
 4. Andrew Schwartz/Paramount Pictures)Chart: ''SCENE SETTERS''1. ''Bruce Almighty'' Paid San Rafael Elementary School (Pasadena, Calif.): $5,000.2. ''Freaky Friday'' Palisades Charter High School (Pacific Palisades, Calif.): $22,759.3. ''Swimfan'' Bayonne High School (New Jersey): $10,000.4. ''School of Rock'' Buckley Country Day School (Roslyn, N.Y.): They won't tell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



543 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Creating Capitalism

BYLINE: By David Brooks. 
David Brooks, an Op-Ed columnist for The Times, is the author of the forthcoming book ''On Paradise Drive: How We Live Now (and Always Have) in the Future Tense.''

 BODY:

ALEXANDER HAMILTON
By Ron Chernow.
Illustrated. 818 pp. New York:
The Penguin Press. $35.
 When Alexander Hamilton was 10, his father abandoned him. When he was around 12, his mother died of a fever in the bed next to his. He was adopted by a cousin, who promptly committed suicide. During those same years, his aunt, uncle and grandmother also died. A court in St. Croix seized all of his possessions, sold off his personal effects and gave the rest to his mother's first husband. By the time he was a young teenager, he and his brother were orphaned, alone and destitute.
 Within three years he was a successful businessman. Within a decade he was effectively George Washington's chief of staff, organizing the American revolutionary army and serving bravely in combat. Within two decades he was one of New York's most successful lawyers and had written major portions of The Federalist Papers. Within three decades he had served as Treasury secretary and forged the modern financial and economic systems that are the basis for American might today. Within five decades he was dead at the hands of Aaron Burr. 
 Alexander Hamilton was the most progressive, and is the most neglected, of the founding fathers. He was the most progressive because he saw that America could be a capitalist superpower, and he figured out which institutions it would need to realize that destiny.
 He is the most neglected, first because he was a relentless climber (and nobody has unalloyed views about ambition), second because he was a great champion of commerce (and nobody has uncomplicated views about that either) and third because his most bitter rivals, Thomas Jefferson and John Adams, outlived him by decades and did everything they could to bury his reputation. So there is no Hamilton monument in Washington, but at least we now have Ron Chernow's moving and masterly ''Alexander Hamilton,'' which is by far the best biography ever written about the man. 
 Other writers, like Forrest McDonald, Liah Greenfeld and Karl-Friedrich Walling, have done better jobs describing Hamilton's political philosophy, but nobody has captured Hamilton himself as fully and as beautifully as Chernow (who is perhaps best known as the author of ''Titan,'' a biography of John D. Rockefeller). Hamilton, we now see, was a dark thicket: aspiring and optimistic, but also pessimistic about human nature and often depressed. He was a modern striver, but also an archaic man with a deeply self-destructive lust for aristocratic honor. He was devoted to his heroic wife, but he was uncontrollable at times, and easily manipulated by his incomprehensibly stupid mistress, Maria Reynolds. 
 Through much of this book the reader is in awe of Hamilton's astounding abilities. There are also parts that are unutterably sad, especially when Hamilton's son Phillip dies in a duel that presaged Hamilton's own. Finally, with its devastating destruction job on Thomas Jefferson, Chernow's book will stir up another round of the Hamilton-versus-Jefferson controversy that has been churning for the past two and a third centuries.
 Hamilton, whose life, as Chernow notes, was ''a case study in the profitable use of time,'' absorbed Plutarch, Bacon and the Bible and emerged onto the public stage as a pamphleteer for the American Revolution. ''The sacred rights of mankind are not to be rummaged for among old parchments or musty records,'' he wrote in 1775 at 20. ''They are written, as with a sunbeam, in the whole volume of human nature by the hand of the divinity itself and can never be erased or obscured by mortal power.''
 During the war, his administrative talents were quickly recognized, and he was plucked to serve on Washington's personal staff, beginning the most important relationship of his career. Washington was steady, elevated and active. Hamilton was frenetic, combative and intellectual. Though they were not affectionate toward each other until later in life -- Hamilton actually repelled Washington's friendly overtures during the Revolution -- neither man's greatness would have been possible without the other. 
 At Valley Forge, Hamilton saw how fundamentally weak the nation was, how lacking in the sort of productive capacity one needs to wage a war or survive as an independent nation. This was the formative insight that shaped his career.
 His conclusions put him outside the mainstream at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia. He favored more centralized power than most of the delegates and was more suspicious of the masses. But he threw himself into the cause of ratification. He wrote his part of The Federalist Papers, America's most significant contribution to political philosophy, during the spare moments of the day between meetings with law clients.
 ''He always had to fight the residual sadness of the driven man, the unspoken melancholy of the prodigy,'' Chernow observes. While others resented him with a furious passion or gaped at him with amazement -- Talleyrand considered him one of the three greatest men of the epoch -- Hamilton himself was lacerated with a feeling of ''personal inadequacy that the world seldom saw.''
 His greatest achievements came as Treasury secretary. He was confronted by an economically weak and fractious nation. He nationalized the debt, binding the states together and creating the fluid capital markets that are today the engine of world capitalism. He was working at a time when many around him had an entirely static view of economics. They scorned credit, banks and stock markets, and considered manufacturing the least productive form of economic activity.
 But Hamilton dreamed of a vibrant economy that would allow aspiring meritocrats like himself to rise and realize their full capacities. He sought to smash the aristocratic fiefs enjoyed by Southern landowners like Jefferson and to replace them with a diversified marketplace that would be open to immigrants and the lowborn. Their vigor, he felt, would drive the nation to greatness. ''Every new scene, which is opened to the busy nature of man to rouse and exert itself, is the addition of a new energy to the general stock of effort,'' he wrote.
 He started a political tradition, dormant in our own day, in which energetic government doesn't oppose market dynamism but is organized to enhance it. Today our liberal/conservative debates tend to pit the advocates of government against the advocates of the market. Today our politics is dominated by rival strands of populism: the anticorporate populism of the Democrats and the anti-Washington populism of the Republicans. But Hamilton thought in entirely different categories. He argued that ''liberty may be endangered by the abuses of liberty as well as by the abuses of power.'' He wanted a limited but energetic government that would open fields of enterprise and give new directions to popular passions.
 This activist, pro-market Hamiltonian tradition was later embraced by Henry Clay and the Whig Party, by the early Republicans in the age of Lincoln and by Theodore Roosevelt-style progressives. But, sadly, it has withered away and now exists only nascently in the political careers of men like Rudolph Giuliani and John McCain. 
 Though they were historic, Hamilton couldn't have enjoyed his years at the Treasury Department. These days we think our politics are nasty and partisan. But our discourse looks like a Platonic symposium compared with the vicious fighting that marked the early Republic. While they were secretaries of treasury and state, Hamilton and Jefferson waged internecine warfare that was, as Chernow notes, of ''almost pathological intensity.'' Members of each man's camp wrote abusive newspaper essays against the other. The secretary of state proposed Congressional legislation censuring the secretary of the Treasury. The Jeffersonians fabricated crude lies about Hamiltonian embezzlement schemes. 
 This fight was about what sort of country America should be, and what sort of people should govern. Hamilton embraced the urban, enterprising virtues: vigor, drive, competition. Jefferson dreamed of a country that would be pastoral, egalitarian and decentralized. Hamilton won the battle, but not the affections of posterity.
 In his combat with Jefferson, Hamilton gave nearly as good as he got. Though philosophical, Hamilton never wrote treatises. He wrote polemical journalism. He needed the spur of combat to get the ink flowing. And later in life, after he had left Washington's employment, he lost all sense of balance. He viewed routine political fights as if they were Armageddon. He grew more and more depressed. ''Misfortunes seem to thicken round us,'' he wrote to his wife in his late 40's, ''and our duty and our peace both require that we should accustom ourselves to meet disasters with Christian fortitude.''
 Hamilton's relationship with his wife and family is one of the revelations of this book. At home he was a loving father, who could compose a treatise on how to bathe a sick child as expert and specific as anything he wrote on tax policy. He was utterly dependent on his wife, who emerges in this account as a woman of almost superhuman fortitude.
 And yet Chernow never lets us forget that he was a man inflamed by his desire for honor. The final duel with Burr started over nothing. But the feud between the two men escalated and escalated. Chernow rebuts those historians who have argued that Hamilton was really seeking to commit suicide. Among other things, his attachment to his family was too deep, and his awareness of the suffering that his death would cause them too profound. But Hamilton still went to Weehawken determined to throw away his own shot, fully aware this choice might cost him his life. 
 His widow outlived him by 50 years, trying vainly to repair his reputation against the assaults from the Jeffersonians. As Chernow is aware, this book finally accomplishes her task. 


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (88%); ORPHANS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); SUICIDE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); LITERATURE (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%) David Brooks; Ron Chernow; Alexander (1757-1804) Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



544 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 3; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: The Tale of the Toaster, or How Trade Deficits Are Good

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SEE that Chinese-made toaster on the shelf at Wal-Mart that sells for $6.87, while the one made in America, on sale at your local kitchen and wine shop, costs $49.99? There is a story there, and it's not a bad story at all -- or at least not an all-bad story.
 Plug in the toaster, slide in an English muffin and pay attention. By the time the muffin is crisp, you will have learned something.
 If you are a factory worker whose job has just been sent to Guangdong, you probably do not have kind feelings about Chinese manufacturers. If you are an automobile assembly line worker (as my grandfather was) whose factory is on shaky ground because of the torrent of Japanese imports, you may not feel madly in love with the Japanese. Few people want to lose their jobs. But if you are an ordinary American consumer or investor, you may want to connect the dots and see just what it means that the United States imports so incredibly much from China and Japan and how, in many ways, it is a substantial benefit to the American consumer and especially to the investor -- at least in the short run. 
 As everyone knows, the United States runs very large trade deficits with many countries, but let's focus on China and Japan. The trade deficits mean that the Chinese and the Japanese collect a vast hoard of dollars by selling us toasters and other products, but that they do not spend nearly as much here buying cow hides, lumber, wheat and whatnot. They take these unspent dollars, turn them in to the central banks of their countries and get their local currencies to pay their workers and pay their mortgages.
 The central banks then take all those dollars, or a lot of them, and buy Treasury securities in the United States. Japan loves Treasuries: in the last year, it has been buying those bonds at a rate of about $20 billion a month. To be sure, part of this has been to keep the dollar high and thus encourage additional American purchases of Japanese goods, but much of the reason is that Treasuries are a remarkably safe investment in terms of return of principal. 
 Japan now holds roughly one-sixth of all Treasury debt, or more than $600 billion of it. China has bought much less but still owns about $170 billion of the stuff and is adding a few billion dollars a month. (I am indebted to my statistician friend, Phil DeMuth, head of Conservative Wealth Management, for this data.)
 This may seem scary, and, in a way, it is. It means that we citizens are paying a good chunk of our income tax each year for interest on debt owned by the Chinese and the Japanese.
 But there are legions of positive effects from their bond buying and the large trade surpluses that their countries are running with the United States -- and will continue to run, even if their commodities prices rise, because their labor costs will remain less. 
 First, their bond purchases help keep American interest rates low. Their voracious appetite for Treasury bonds props up the price and lowers the rate. That is a benefit for every borrower -- every man or woman applying for a mortgage, every business wanting to finance a microchip plant. (And even after recent run-ups, rates remain low by historical standards.)
 To the extent that the United States avoided a deep recession after the bubble burst in 2000, we owe some thanks to the nice people in Beijing and Tokyo who recycled those dollars. The stimulus to economic activity is hard to measure, but it is all good -- unless you are a retiree wanting higher interest rates on your savings. Then it's not good.
 Low interest rates help the stock market, too. The value of a stock is generally considered to be its flow of dividends or earnings far into the future, discounted back to the present at current rates of interest. If current interest rates are low, there is far less of a discount applied to those earnings and dividends. That makes the market rise. If rates are low, stocks seem cheap compared with bonds; this also props up stock prices.
 Exporting countries like China and Japan also help to keep rates low because they have such efficient industrial machines and sell goods cheaply here. As prices stay low, the Federal Reserve is less tempted than it might be otherwise to raise rates to fight inflation. When you get your brokerage statement -- and if it looks good -- you may want to thank the Chinese and the Japanese.
 Again, that may seem a burden for American manufacturing workers who have to compete with lower-paying foreign manufacturers, and it is. But for consumers, prices are kept low by the deluge of imports. Not every American is a manufacturing worker, but every American is a consumer, so we all benefit in some way. 
 BUT how long can this go on? How long can we run trade deficits in the neighborhood of $600 billion a year? What happens when the Chinese and the Japanese have bought all of the Treasury debt -- or when our securities market is heavily dominated by Asian buyers? Will we become, in essence, a colony of China and Japan, working a large part of the year to pay the interest and dividends on the bonds and stocks owned in those countries?
 In a way, that's the problem of the Chinese and the Japanese. At some point, if you owe the bank enough money, you own the bank. And we can always print more money to pay the interest on the debt. Anyway, that is a long way off. And to those who say that running this kind of trade deficit cannot go on forever, I offer the words of my late, great father, Herbert Stein, when asked about this very problem. ''If a thing cannot go on forever,'' he said, ''it will stop.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); BONDS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); CURRENCIES (86%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) International Trade and World Market; Stocks and Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates

PERSON: Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (93%) China; Japan

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



545 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; Commercial Property/Lower Manhattan

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: A Plan for Wireless Telecommunications Network

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
A WIRELESS telecommunications system that would keep Lower Manhattan's computers and phones connected with the rest of the world in the event of a major disruption downtown has been proposed by officials of the Alliance for Downtown New York. The proposed system would send signals through the air, rather than through fiber-optic cables or copper wires and would be the first such system in a central business district in the country, according to executives of the alliance, the downtown business improvement group. 
 The signals would be sent to switching centers in Manhattan and some other location, probably in New Jersey, to ensure that if there is damage in one location, connections would be maintained through the links to other centers.
 The Lower Manhattan Wireless Redundancy System is intended to carry data, like stock and bond trading and banking transactions, but could be used for voice communications, if necessary, they said. 
 However, the system requires an investment of $10 million in public money to install the basic components -- roof-top antennas and the structure to keep them in place. 
 The system and other initiatives are part of a strategy by the alliance to use communications technology to increase the attractiveness of the area to small and medium-size companies that want reliable connections, but cannot afford to develop systems on their own.
 The issue of reliability is an important one downtown because the Sept. 11 attack cut off many companies, even those who had multiple carriers, because all their wires connected at 140 West Street, which was heavily damaged.
 ''We looked at what Merrill Lynch and other large companies did to develop private networks,'' after the World Trade Center attack, said John J. Gilbert, the executive vice president of Rudin Management and chairman of a committee that studied the communications problem and recommended the new backup system.
 He said they relied on high speed data transmission through the air, which is called broadband wireless, to locations outside the city to ensure that their operations remain connected, regardless of the emergency.
 ''Broadband wireless is here,'' Mr. Gilbert said. ''The question is, how do we provide access to small and medium-size business? As we rebuild the telecommunications system downtown, we do not want to do it as it was; we want to do it as it should be.'' 
 Shirley Jaffe, vice president of economic development for the alliance, said the group had been making presentations to the city, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and other institutions of government to secure the financing needed to build the basic system, which could be used by multiple telephone companies. Because of this, no single telephone company is willing to make the investment. ''It has a lot of support from business, but we still need an entity of government to pay for it,'' she said.
 With billions being spend to rebuild downtown, Ms. Jaffe said, ''$10 million is a relatively modest amount of money.''
 She added, ''We could be in operation within six months, and it would have a major positive impact in the short term.'' 
 The system would cover all of Lower Manhattan by installing antennas and related equipment on five of the tallest buildings in the area, which are called hubs. Planners said just about every office in the area would be able to ''see'' one of the hubs, either through a window or by a common antenna operated by the landlord near the top of a building.
 The hubs would collect the communications signals and transmit them to what is known as a Point of Presence, or POP, which is a large switching location connected by various types of links -- wires, fiber-optic cables and microwave links -- to national and international telecommunications networks. The transmission would be to POP's in multiple locations to ensure reliability.
 The transmissions would use both laser light in the not-visible infrared wavelengths and radio microwaves to add to reliability, Mr. Gilbert said. He said using both compensated for light's inability to penetrate fog and the tendency of microwave beams to spread out and grow unfocused.
 He said the ''sweet spot'' for such a system was within a mile of one of the hubs, which is considerably more than the 300 to 1,000 feet range of WiFi, the type of wireless Internet access service used by owners of portable computers.
 THE wireless system would have the ability to carry as much data as the cables and wires buried so densely beneath virtually all the streets south of Chambers Street. And those streets would stay undisturbed, because all the work would be going on high above, on building rooftops.
 The transmissions would be secure, Mr. Gilbert said, because the signals would be sent by tightly focused beams aimed at a specific antenna on a specific roof. ''You would have to be right next to the dish'' to intercept the transmissions, Mr. Gilbert said, adding that the signals could be scrambled if additional security were needed.
 Brokers specializing in downtown office space say the wireless back-up system would be a good selling point for prospective tenants if in operation, although they concede most do not know that it is even a possibility.
 ''The system would be an extra benefit for tenants and residents,'' said Richard Kennedy, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield, a brokerage and services company. ''It would position us at the forefront'' of the nation's central business districts.
 He said the fact that the system would be carrier neutral added to its attractiveness, because each tenant or resident could choose the telephone company it wanted, based on prices and services offered.
 Adam H. Foster, a senior vice president of CB Richard Ellis, another large brokerage and services company, was similarly supportive of the plan. ''It would be a wonderful thing to have a wireless back-up for data,'' he said. ''Since 9/11, there has been a heightened awareness of the need for this sort of thing.''
 He said that tenants would welcome the ability to hook into such a system without the need to make costly investments on their own.
 But Frank A. Cento, a managing director of Jones Lang LaSalle, another brokerage and services company, said he doubted that the availability of a wireless telecommunications system alone would draw tenants to Lower Manhattan. He said economic considerations -- rents that are 20 to 25 percent lower than Midtown and financial incentives being offered by the city -- would continue to be uppermost in tenants' decision making.
 ''It could be a good selling point, like a backup generator in a building, but it is not something people are asking about,'' he said.
 Although not directly related to the telecommunications back-up system, the alliance is using wireless technology to make the downtown area more attractive and to promote local businesses. It has installed seven WiFi ''hot spots,'' or connection points, in seven parks and other open spaces that give users of portable computers free wireless access to the Internet.
 According to a report issued by the alliance last week, the WiFi network has become in one year one of the busiest of its kind in the world.
 According to Mr. Gilbert, the development of the wireless broadband system would have the side effect of helping improve the performance of the WiFi network as well. ''It would allow WiFi at higher data rates,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The proposed wireless system would use transmitter/receivers atop ''hub'' buildings to allow tenants and others to link with relays, including ''points of presence,'' or POP's, and would be able to transmit voice communications as well as data. (Photo by J. Majoris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS BROADBAND (78%); BROADBAND (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); BONDS (68%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet; Finances; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Alliance for Downtown New York

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



546 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2999 words

HEADLINE: Sacred Space But Earthly Challenges

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
THE beliefs they espouse may be eternal, but the grip that churches and synagogues have on their property can be transitory.
 With shrinking memberships and demographic shifts as ethnic groups move out of neighborhoods and others move in, houses of worship can be filled to capacity and financially comfortable in one decade and struggling for survival in the next. In the meantime, they must find ways to finance the repair or renovation of aging buildings. In some cases, life rafts are held out by developers, but at a price: the right to build may entail demolition of the church itself. 
 Throughout the city and beyond, religious institutions from the expansive Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine and the West-Park Presbyterian Church in Manhattan to the small Bay Ridge United Methodist Church in Brooklyn are grappling with difficult, sometimes wrenching, decisions: to sell off land or buildings, rent space to tenants, merge with other congregations, seek designation as a landmark or resist landmarking. 
 The Rev. Sandra Moore, pastor of the Bay Ridge church defined the plight of her flock succinctly: ''land and property rich, and cash poor.''
 ''Our building holds around 400, but we get maybe 50 to 60 individuals per Sunday, and that is not enough,'' she said. ''We must be creative in our efforts to be good stewards of our property. A lot of times, pastors and congregations sentimentalize their properties and don't use their resources wisely.''
 She has recruited a historical architect and a fund-raiser to help devise ways to do that, ''but in the meantime, we need to take action yesterday,'' she said. The clock tower of the church, which has shed some of its serpentine stone, will be wrapped in special fabric to keep more stone from falling off and scaffolding will be put up on other parts of the structure. But Pastor Moore said a proper historic renovation would cost more than $3 million. 
 On a broader scale, the Archdiocese of New York, which encompasses 413 Roman Catholic churches in 10 counties, is conducting a comprehensive survey of its holdings. ''As the process progresses, we hope to determine where changes need to be made, and those may well be both in building new churches, expanding existing buildings or closing or merging parishes,'' said Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the archdiocese and a member of the committee doing the investigation. 
 For the time being, though, Mr. Zwilling said, the study has been delayed because Bishop Timothy A. McDonnell, who was in charge of it, left to become bishop of Springfield, Mass. 
 Concern about religious structures goes beyond denominational lines. Last June, the New York Landmarks Conservancy convened a meeting of real estate representatives of the Catholic and Episcopal dioceses, the New York Presbytery and consultants and lawyers expert in the field of religious real estate to exchange ideas about how best to deal with buildings that no longer meet the needs of their communities. 
 ''These are some of the most beautiful and important buildings, not just to their congregations but to their neighborhoods and city,'' said Peg Breen, president of the conservancy. ''We would hope that if closings must occur, denominations try to see if someone else could use the building before selling it to developers who will tear them down.''
 The impetus for that meeting, held under the auspices of the conservancy's Sacred Sites program, was the recognition that there are an inordinate number of underused Presbyterian churches around the city. 
 Reade H. Ryan Jr., president of the board of the Presbytery of New York City, the governing body for the five boroughs, said the denomination has 100 congregations in the city with 17,000 members, but 15,000 are concentrated in four churches. ''We are grappling with the problem of smaller churches,'' Mr. Ryan said, noting that it is one component of a study of ''what God's purpose for the Presbyterian Church is.''

West-Park Church
A Neighborhood Gets Involved
 If any one church exemplifies the dilemma facing houses of worship with diminishing membership and mounting debt, it is the West-Park Presbyterian Church, a stately 112-year-old Romanesque Revival structure at the corner of Amsterdam Avenue and West 86th Street. Partly covered by scaffolding to contain chunks of sandstone, some as large as 20 pounds, that have been coming loose, it requires an estimated $2.8 million for facade repairs and $8 million for a more comprehensive restoration.
 There are currently two distinctly opposing plans for the building: one for total replacement with an ultramodern glass structure, the other for a historic preservation, albeit with significant alterations. These plans are moving on parallel tracks through an approval process that involves the church itself, its trustees and various levels of the Presbytery. 
 In a meeting held on Monday, the trustees of the Presbytery voted not to give a green light to either plan but to refer both back to their sponsors for revision. The board's reservations concerned financing rather than design, according to the Rev. Dr. Robert L. Brashear, the church's pastor, who added that he still hoped for final approval before the summer. 
 West-Park's leaders began acknowledging that drastic measures might be in order more than 10 years ago, and a merger with Rutgers Presbyterian Church at 236 West 73rd Street was proposed. It was defeated.
 The questions that followed were vexing. ''Do we simply do nothing and see how long we can continue to stretch things out?'' Dr. Brashear said. ''Do we seek another merger, or do we rebuild for rebirth? The congregation voted to pursue the development option.''
 About two years ago, the building committee approached several developers and chose the Related Companies to explore what might be done. Related came up with a plan to raze the existing structure, a combination of two connected buildings, and to put up a 23-story condominium tower with new quarters for the church projecting outward at the corner. 
 The proposed church and the apartment building were both designed by the firm of Franke, Gottsegen, Cox. Subject to modification, its design of the church is basically a prow-shaped base of stone, from which would rise a sweep of transparent glass panels culminating in a 125-foot carillon tower.
 ''When you enter the sanctuary, your eye will be drawn up to a luminous well of light,'' said Erika Franke, the partner leading the design team for the project. ''You will see the crisscrossing of the structure, like a canopy of trees, but you won't be able to see the top, which we think is an expression of sacredness. 
 ''The sanctuary is very flexible and interfaith use is possible so that space can be shared with other denominations. The church told us it wanted a refuge and a sense of 'communitarian communality.' We took our cue from them.'' The 28,000-square-foot building would double the space for social service and education programs. 
 The blueprint for the apartment tower, currently 18 stories, calls for 40 condominium units. In return, Related would extend the church $16 million in credit toward construction fees. 
 When neighbors, particularly ones in adjoining buildings, learned that the plan involved a high rise that could block air and light and that it called for demolition rather than alteration, they swung into action, organizing a group called Friends of West- Park. Its goal was not only to protest but also to come up with a viable alternative plan and the funds to help support it. 
 As Thomas Vitullo-Martin, co-chairman of the group, put it: ''I was not interested, as a community leader, in telling the church that it had to maintain itself for the community good without the community taking some role. We have formed a development company capable of doing what we say and working on a partnership with the church.''
 The Friends assembled a team of architects and economic and business consultants who were paid for their efforts and who suggested that a portion of the church be sold. ''We would find what we call a capital partner and are looking for a not-for-profit entity, probably a school, that would pay for the right to develop a part of the building and their own cost of renovation,'' Mr. Vitullo-Martin said. 
 In addition, two neighboring buildings have already agreed to the terms of a lease of easement for air rights, under which they would pay for air and light. The final figure for the easement has yet to be determined, but it will probably exceed $2.5 million, Mr. Vitullo-Martin said. 
 The design produced for the Friends of West-Park by a collaboration between Peter Samton, a partner in Gruzen Samton Architects, and Page Cowley of Page Ayres Cowley Architects, would more closely resemble the original building, at least on the exterior, with three of the walls expected to be retained. Described more as a concept than an actual design, the plan calls for reconfiguration of the roof into a convex shape, repair of the red sandstone walls and preservation of the stained glass windows. But the interior would be gutted, and the sanctuary, now about 40 feet tall, would be raised to the level of the balcony, opening up space below for other uses. 
 ''The whole interior would hark back to the original design, but it would suit the way worship is performed now,'' Ms. Cowley said. ''It will have movable seating, altar, lectern and table. We will replicate the wood graining to show the ceiling and walls the way they intended, and the stained glass windows will be restored.'' 
 Pointing out that there was no more similarity between the two designs than there is between a cat and a horse, she said: ''Successful rehabilitation allows the character and original intent of the first architect to come through. So the question is, If not every square inch is sacred turf, how much modification can the structure bear without losing what makes it special?'' 
 For the time being, church leaders are neutral about which design and which financial arrangement they favor. Neighbors at an informational meeting held in the church on Wednesday clearly favored the Friends alternative. Each member of the congregation can vote, with final approval up to the entire Presbytery, a legislative meeting of representatives of all the churches. 
 Despite the fact that the Friends of West-Park proposal represented widespread opposition to the church's original plan, Dr. Brashear said: ''I didn't object to that at all. On the West Side, this could have gone to lawsuits and people walking around with signs. Instead, in a relatively short period of time, a great deal of positive and creative energy has gone into trying to find solutions that would meet the interests of both church and community.'' 
 West-Park is not the only church to encounter criticism over the prospect of an apartment house on its land. In fact, the merest suggestion that a residential tower might go up to help the Bowne Street Community Church in Flushing alleviate its financial shortfall ignited a furor. 
 The church leadership had approached the Clarett Group two years ago about developing its property with a 20-story luxury condo, but L. D. Clepper, chairman of the congregation's governing board, said it had never been more than a wisp of a concept. ''It was presented by the building committee as 'Hey, look, here's an idea,' '' he said. The plan was turned down by a majority of the congregation. 
 Like West-Park, the church, an amalgamation of congregations formerly aligned with the Reformed Church in America, the United Church of Christ and the Taiwanese Christian Church, was in need of serious repairs. But, Mr. Clepper said, the leadership preferred to expand its public service activities. ''We wanted to put in day-care centers for children and the elderly and a soup kitchen,'' he said. 
 For now, the church, which was built in the 1890's and which has Tiffany windows, is dipping into its endowment to meet repair expenses. ''We are spending anywhere from $20,000 to $40,000 on maintenance, and several years ago we estimated that we would have to spend $500,000 in the next 10 years,'' Mr. Clepper said. 
 The battle there is not yet over. It has shifted into a controversy over potential designation by the Landmarks Preservation Commission, which has it on the calendar for consideration. 
 ''The church voted narrowly last summer against landmarking,'' Mr. Clepper said. ''Our opposition is based on the idea that it is a violation of the doctrine of separation of church and state, but I think it will happen, and if it does, we will live with it.'' 
 Linda Mandell, a retired schoolteacher, is spearheading the effort to win landmarks approval. Noting that a parking lot on the property would not be part of the landmark, she said: ''We are not in any way trying to hurt the church or starve it out. It would still be able to build, but the plans would have to be approved by the commission.'' 
 Ms. Mandell lives across the street from the church. ''Flushing is incredibly overcrowded,'' she said, ''and this is the only beautiful thing I can see out of my window.''
 Officials at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine have also been considering the construction of new buildings on its grounds, but they would almost surely be academic rather than residential.
 Several years ago, trustees of the cathedral began to consider leasing two parcels of land on the Morningside Heights campus to raise funds for $20 million in deferred maintenance. One of the parcels runs from Amsterdam Avenue to Morningside Drive north of the cathedral, the other is the southeast corner of the property at West 110th Street and Morningside Drive. 
 Last year, despite the fact that completion of the majestic structure is nowhere in sight, it was designated a landmark. Part of the agreement with the landmarks commission exempted the vacant parcels so that the cathedral could develop them, and Columbia University was granted exclusive rights over the sites.
 But the City Council, which has the power to rule on landmark designations, took the unusual step of turning it down, arguing that the entire campus ought to be landmarked. Mayor Bloomberg vetoed the decision, but the council in turn overrode the veto. The result: no landmark, at least not for now. 
 ''That caused Columbia great pause and they said they didn't want to continue to be involved with us in a way that would injure our relationship with the City Council,'' said the Very Rev. Dr. James A. Kowalski, dean of the cathedral. ''So we are no longer in an exclusive conversation with Columbia.'' 
 No matter who ends up with rights to the land -- and it may well yet be Columbia -- its disposition is considered critical to the cathedral's resources.
 ''Last year we had a $1 million deficit on a budget of $7 million to $8 million, and this year will have another $800,000 to $1 million,'' Dean Kowalski said. ''Unless we plug the ongoing deficit, it will be hard to get people to give. They want to give, but not to something that is bleeding to death.''
 Columbia has come to the aid of another religious institution, the 168-year-old Union Theological Seminary at Broadway and 121st Street, whose endowment has been shrinking since the early 1960's. 
 ''It was large enough so we could limp along through deferred maintenance, but after a while the chicken does come home to roost,'' said the Rev. Dr. Joseph C. Hough Jr., president of the seminary. ''In 1999, the trustees decided to borrow against our real estate holdings to fix the shell.''
 Another academic institution wanted to buy the entire campus, but that seemed too drastic a move. Columbia will rent two of the seminary's nine buildings and move its religion department there in the fall. ''We were ready for a long-term commitment but didn't want one that would last 100 years, and to have an academic partner rent our space was a real bonus,'' Dr. Hough said.

Development Alliances
A Matter Of Compatibility
 Compatibility is crucial to the success of any alliance that brings two religious institutions together, whether they are the same denomination or not.
 As Rabbi Eric Polakoff, spiritual leader of B'nai Israel, a Reform Jewish congregation in Southbury, Conn., which joined forces with the Federation, Jewish Communities of Western Connecticut, the umbrella organization that provides financing, programs and services, to put up a building, said: ''Going into a merger is like going into a marriage. It doesn't always work, but we knew we had to trust one another as institutions because this is a small area and we need one another.'' 
 The synagogue was already the product of a merger in 1997, that of Temple Israel, which subsequently sold its building in Waterbury to a Mormon church, and B'nai Chaim, which was renting space in a Lutheran church in Southbury. 
 ''We met in a former dance studio in Woodbury for a few years, trying to live modestly and scrimp for our first home,'' Rabbi Polakoff said. ''We worked hard to integrate our two congregations into one family. Being in the wilderness to do that was a good experience.'' 
 Now that they have a home -- 27,000 square feet on 14 acres where cows still come to graze -- they have rented out space to another congregation, Beth El Synagogue.
 An 80-year-old Conservative congregation from Waterbury, Beth El had 350 families in its heyday. ''But people stopped moving into Waterbury, our members were getting old, the building needed repair and it was too much,'' said Dr. Maurice Falk, a retired pediatrician who is president of Beth El. ''In 1997, we decided to sell to a yeshiva for about $600,000 and set up a synagogue in a storefront.'' 
 As Rabbi Polakoff sees it, having a place to call home means more than ownership of real estate. ''A congregation that does not have a building does not have the permanence to guarantee the future,'' he said. ''If you're really interested in preserving the future, you need a structure.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The church and apartment building that might replace the West-Park Presbyterian Church if housing development option is pursued. (Photo by Jon Seagull for Franke, Gottsegen, Cox Architects)
Rendering of what the redesigned West-Park Presbyterian Church might look like under a plan advanced by the Friends of West-Park. (Photo by Daniel Samton for Gruzen Samton/Page Ayres Cowley)(pg. 1)
Bay Ridge United Methodist Church in Brooklyn. Its pastor described the congregation as ''land and property rich, and cash poor.'' (Photo by Stephanie Keith for The New York Times)
The campus in Southbury, Conn., that is home to B'nai Israel and the Federation, Jewish Communities of Western Connecticut. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
Bowne Street Community Church in Flushing, Queens, which is feeling financial pressure and is under consideration for landmark status. (Photo by Stephanie Keith for The New York Times)
 The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, where new buildings on the grounds are being considered. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HISTORIC SITES (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); ETHNICITY (72%); CITIES (70%); DIVESTITURES (68%) Religion and Churches; Shutdowns (Institutional); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Historic Buildings and Sites; Finances; Religion and Churches

ORGANIZATION: New York Landmarks Conservancy; West-Park Presbyterian Church (NYC)

PERSON: Nadine Brozan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (53%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



547 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; SundayBusiness; Pg. 12; DataBank

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Benchmarks Rise as Earnings Outweigh Anxiety

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Investors may be fretting about interest rates and inflation, but that didn't prevent them from bidding up stocks with strong earnings last week.
 All three major indexes rose for the week, despite robust economic data and testimony from Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, that, taken together, suggested to some analysts that the Fed would act soon to curb inflation by raising interest rates. 
 Upbeat earnings reports and bullish corporate forecasts appeared to outweigh those concerns.
 Motorola, for example, gained more than 23 percent for the week, leading the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, after reporting that its first-quarter profit had increased to 25 cents a share, from 7 cents in the corresponding period a year earlier, outstripping expectations by a wide margin.
 For the week, the S.&P. 500 gained 5.99 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,140.60. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 20.87 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,472.84. And the Nasdaq composite index gained 54.03 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,049.77.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.46 percent, from 4.34 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.MicrosoftNYSE: MSFTThe world's largest software maker said sales in the third quarter rose 17 percent to $9.18 billion, exceeding its forecast. While the company said sales growth may slow in the next fiscal year, investors were bullish.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.54WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.46%EST. '04 P/E: 23.03AMRNYSE: AMRFirst-quarter losses narrowed sharply for the parent of American Airlines, the world's biggest airline, dropping from $6.68 to $1.03 per share. Despite fierce competition, passenger traffic rose and costs declined.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $12.88WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.04%EST. '04 P/E: --Eastman KodakNYSE: EKThe world's largest photography company said its move into digital imaging was paying off. Sales of digital cameras -- as well as deep cost-cutting -- contributed to a 150 percent increase in first-quarter profits.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $26.59WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.89%EST. '04 P/E: 11.93AlcoaNYSE: AAStock of the aluminum producer dropped 4 percent Wednesday as aluminum prices posted their biggest one-day drop in 15 years amid speculation that interest rates would rise, reducing demand for industrial metals.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.71WEEK'S CHANGE: -3.77%EST. '04 P/E: 16.37General MotorsNYSE: GMCiting vehicle sales in China and earnings from its finance unit, the automaker raised its 2004 earnings estimate to $7 a share, from a range of $6 to $6.50. Profit in North America fell in the first quarter, however.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.18WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.52%EST. '04 P/E: 7.03CoachNYSE: COHLime green patent-leather totes and pink suede bags helped the luxury leather-goods chain post strong sales in the third quarter. The company said that sales rose 42 percent and profit climbed 83 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $44.00WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.41%EST. '04 P/E: 33.38eBayNYSE: EBAYThe Internet auction company said that first-quarter earnings jumped 92 percent, beating forecasts. Auction revenue in the United States jumped 39 percent, and revenue from PayPal, its financial service, rose 68 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $82.14WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.72%EST. '04 P/E: 70.03Yum BrandsNYSE: YUMThe operator of the Taco Bell, KFC and Pizza Hut chains said earnings in the first quarter jumped 21 percent. A weak dollar magnified the impact of revenues from growing numbers of Pizza Huts in China and Britain.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.05WEEK'S CHANGE: +1.72%EST. '04 P/E: 16.95(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



548 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 3; NEWS AND ANALYSIS

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Can the Technology Industry Grow Bigger, Not Just Older?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
SORT through the daily celebrations, wailing, teeth-gnashing and brow-furrowed ruminations that accompanied the avalanche of quarterly earnings reports over the last couple of weeks, and one theme seems pretty clear: tech is back. Profits for the technology companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index soared 64 percent in the first quarter, compared with 24 percent for the S.&P. 500 over all, Thomson First Call reports.
 So is it off to the races again? That is far less clear. In fact, there is a lively debate about what is really happening in the technology business, one that plays out daily in the stock market. And the signals are often confusing. 
 Ten days ago, for example, I.B.M. said it was finding steady improvement in demand from corporate customers. Big Blue even noted an ''inflection point'' in the pickup of hardware sales. But right after that announcement, its stock -- and technology shares as a whole -- started falling. Then, on Thursday, Microsoft reported that it was noting increasing corporate demand, and the opposite happened: its stock, and technology shares in general, got a nice little bounce. 
 The daily referendum of buying and selling on Wall Street points to the basic questions: Is the technology business still a growth sector? Is technology special?
 To many investors, the answers seem to be yes and yes. The stocks of the 100 largest tech companies trade at about 30 times projected earnings for the next 12 months -- or about 50 percent higher than the price-to-earnings ratio of the S.&P. 500. True, technology shares look nothing like they did in the zany days of the bubble, when prices soared to nearly 70 times earnings. But they are still way, way up there: the long-term historical average multiple for technology stock prices is in the range of 15 to 25.
 Not surprisingly, value investors view today's technology stock prices as a sign of collective delusion. ''To me, it's astounding,'' said Richard Bernstein, chief quantitative strategist for Merrill Lynch. ''There is this perception that there is something unique about the tech sector.''
 Add in the cost of expensing the stock options that are so popular among Silicon Valley companies and the price of technology stocks is even higher, about 46 times earnings, according to a study by Merrill Lynch. ''You can see why people are trying to ignore it,'' said Steven Milunovich, a technology analyst.
 Institutional investors who are optimists about the technology sector tend to regard it as a cyclical industry on steroids. In good times, they say, tech stocks will do better than the market as a whole and in down cycles they will do worse. These days, they see themselves as riding an upswing that could still run a year or longer, with ups and downs along the way. ''Tech stocks have further to go, but mainly because the stock market has further to go,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.
 Mr. Paulsen and other tech enthusiasts point to strong corporate profits, businesses finally loosening their purse strings, and the fact that spending on computer hardware and software is about half of all business investment. Strong economic growth, he says, would lead companies to invest more -- and that means more spending on technology.
 An accounting echo from the boom years of 1999 and 2000 could add fuel to the cyclical upswing. Hardware and software are capital expenditures that companies typically depreciate as an expense over three to five years. In the technology slump, companies stopped buying, and now the depreciation expenses from earlier spending are way down, as the equipment is at least three years old. 
 The effect is to give companies more money to spend in their technology budgets, a trend that may continue for up to two years, said Ken Davis, a principal at McKinsey & Company. At I.B.M., John R. Joyce, the chief financial officer, said the depreciation impact on technology spending was evident in the first quarter and should continue.
 But what about the long term? Some analysts expect a slowdown. The industry, they say, is likely to grow at about 1.5 times the rate of economic growth, down from the historical average of 2.5, predicted John Gantz, director of research for IDC, a technology research firm. The reason, he said, is simple: a maturing, trillion-dollar industry can grow only so fast. 
 Even so, veteran investors say, there will be plenty of dynamism, turmoil and growth opportunities in some technology markets. But it is an environment that will favor stock pickers over those who are trying to ride the sector in general. ''Growth was synonymous with tech investing in the 1990's,'' said David Readerman, a senior analyst at Marsico Capital Management. ''That relationship has been broken.''
 Which markets will prosper? Mr. Readerman, who began his career in 1983 as a personal computer software analyst, just returned from a trip to South Korea, where he studied the frontiers of wireless and broadband technology in a market far more advanced than the United States. Throughout Asia, as well as Europe, the market for high-end mobile phones with cameras, color screens and other features is booming.
 Such surging sales, Mr. Readerman noted, helped Motorola triple its quarterly profits, while Nokia reported disappointing results because it could not keep up with the demand for high-end phones. And he pointed to Qualcomm, the creator of one of the main digital cellphone technologies, which reported last week that its quarterly profits jumped more than fourfold. Qualcomm's technology, known as CDMA, is used in cellphones to send and receive music, video and data services. ''When you look beyond a PC-centric view of technology, there are some very interesting opportunities,'' Mr. Readerman said. 
 Other fundamental shifts are taking place. ''There is potentially a huge transition from technology being sold as a product to technology being sold as a service,'' said Roger B. McNamee, general partner of Integral Capital Partners.
 After all, he noted, the popular Web sites for shopping and search are services. The stellar quarterly earnings of Amazon.com, Yahoo and eBay show that the march of the Internet is continuing, despite the dot-com collapse. And the imminent initial public offering of Google is the most eagerly awaited I.P.O. since Netscape sold shares in 1995, touching off the Internet boom. The other notable Silicon Valley offering expected this year, Salesforce.com, also fits the technology-as-service theme. It markets sales-force automation as a utilitylike service over the Internet, instead of a software product.
 THERE is also a basic overhaul of computing under way in corporate data centers, according to Mark Stahlman, an analyst at Caris & Company. The trend involves building more powerful, efficient and secure data centers by lashing together swarms of computers using low-cost microprocessors and clever software that can divvy up work across hundreds or thousands of machines. That vision of virtual computing, Mr. Stahlman said, is being pursued by big companies like I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystems and little-known start-ups like Azul Systems, Vieo and Cassatt.
 ''It represents a huge shift that will play out over the next 5 to 10 years,'' Mr. Stahlman said. ''Things are up for grabs in that market, and there is plenty of opportunity.''
 In other words, technology is still special -- sometimes.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors trying new mobile phones last month at a computer fair in Hanover, Germany. The market for high-end phones is a surging part of the technology market. (Photo by Associated Press)Chart: ''Still Flying, but at a Lower Altitude''Although technology stocks are not what they were during the bubble, they still trade at about 30 times projected earnings for the next 12 months, a much higher multiple than that of the overall stock market.Graph tracks technology stocks (Merrill Lynch 100 Technology index), overall stock market (Standard & Poor's 500-stock index) and Price-to-earnings ratio (12-month projections) since 1990.(Source by Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); REFERENDUMS (51%) Computers and the Internet; Profits (Industry-wide); Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



549 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 7; MARKET WEEK

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: What's Bad News? Maybe Any News

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Investors got a surprise on Friday, when they learned that orders for durable goods, like airplanes, cars and washing machines, surged 3.4 percent in March, well above the 0.7 percent forecast.
 Often, a spike like this in durable-goods numbers can be explained away by volatility in the monthly data. But with investors already on edge, Friday's suggestion of unexpected manufacturing strength prompted a sell-off in the bond market and cast a pall over stocks, despite a week of strong corporate earnings reports. 
 This week's data, from home sales and consumer confidence to the gross domestic product and inflation barometers, might not be threatening in a calmer environment. But after Alan Greenspan, in the view of many analysts, indicated last week that the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates soon, any new data can jostle the markets.

BRISK GROWTH -- The G.D.P. report, due on Thursday, is expected to show that the economy grew at an annual rate of 5 percent in the second quarter, according to Bloomberg News, after 4.1 percent for the first quarter. But if the quarter turns out to be unexpectedly strong, watch out. The G.D.P. price deflator, a broad measure of inflation, is forecast to rise to 2 percent in the second quarter from 1.5 percent in the first.
 March figures for new home sales, due Monday, are expected to be up 0.5 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.17 million, from 1.16 million in February. The University of Michigan consumer sentiment index is predicted to rise to 94, from 93.2.

INFLATION WATCH -- On Friday comes the monthly inflation gauge based on personal consumption expenditures, a favorite Fed barometer. David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley, predicts that this measure, excluding food and energy, rose 0.3 percent in March, after a 0.1 percent gain in February.
 Such an increase would be a sign that inflation has probably bottomed, but that was already reflected in the March report on the core Consumer Price Index, which rose 0.4 percent, excluding food and energy. ''A 0.3 percent increase is consistent with what we saw in the C.P.I. and that caused some concern,'' Mr. Greenlaw said. ''But that concern has already played out in the markets.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Gross Domestic Product from 2001 to 2003. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INFLATION (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); BONDS (79%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (68%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



550 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7; In the Region/Connecticut

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Apartments With Movie Theater Set for New Haven

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
THE latest of several conversions of office buildings into upscale rental apartments in downtown New Haven will have an unusual ground floor. Except for a tenants' lobby, the entire street level will be occupied by a 20,000-square-foot, five-screen movie theater with its own minicafe, flanked on one side by a separate 5,000-square-foot white-tablecloth restaurant and on the other by a 2,000-square-foot informal restaurant lounge, all with entrances on Temple Street.
 The larger restaurant will be installed in the domed rotunda that had been the lobby of the building's former owner, the United Illuminating Company, a Connecticut utility. The elegant neo-Colonial building with its four-sided clock tower was built as the company's headquarters in 1938 and has been vacant for 12 years. 
 Its brick exterior will get some cosmetic attention, and the interior has been gutted to prepare for the creation of the theater, restaurants and 44 one- and two-bedroom apartments. The new owners -- Benjamin S. Moss and his son, Charles B. Moss Jr., partners in Bow Tie Partners of Manhattan -- named the project Temple Square. 
 Bow Tie Partners bought the L-shaped building on Temple and George Streets from the Fusco Corporation, a New Haven development company, for $2.5 million in 2003. Fusco had bought it from David Chase, a Hartford developer, who purchased it in 1992 from United Illuminating, which moved to larger quarters in New Haven. Neither of those buyers was able to find a suitable use for it.
 ''The rental market in New Haven is strong,'' Charles Moss said, and it is expected to get even stronger as interest rates rise, discouraging prospective home buyers. With a location three blocks from the Yale campus, ''between the university, biotech, the health community, empty nesters and young professionals,'' he said, ''our project will be attractive to all those groups. With the value and quality we will provide, we should be able to lease up quickly.'' 
 Talks are under way with restaurateurs, while the theater and the apartments will be ready for marketing in October, he said. Rental rates have not been determined and the cost of the project is something the partners would not discuss. New one- and two-bedroom apartments in New Haven generally rent for $1,000 to $2,900 a month. 
 Creating a balance between residential and commercial space is an ongoing concern in New Haven. The office market, local brokers say, tends to be static, dominated by moves among the buildings that have not been converted to apartments.
 ''There has never been a supply of luxury apartments here,'' said John Keogh, a senior broker at Traub & Company, commercial realtors. ''It has been an undersupplied market. We had the Taft, and that was it.'' The Taft was formerly a hotel next to the old Shubert Theater.
 ''Currently, there are four million square feet of office space in New Haven,'' he continued, ''and about 14 percent are vacant; a lot are subleases. Only one new office building has been built in years -- 55,000 square feet completed last June. It has almost 20,000 square feet available.'' 
 Richard Guralnick, a broker with H. Pearce Commercial Real Estate, said: ''There are some 650 new apartments coming on line all at about the same time. The question is, Are there enough people to fill them?''
 A mix of conversions by local and out-of-town developers includes the former Cutler Building, the former Chapel Square Mall, the former Southern New England Telephone Company headquarters and the former Strouse-Adler girdle factory. 
 TWO architectural firms are handling the reconstruction of Temple Square. Schadler Associates of Hartford is building the apartments and restaurants. Apartments of 850 to 1,500 square feet will fill two floors above the street floor, as well as a fourth floor that is to be constructed on the roof. 
 Card-operated laundries will be on each floor, apartments will have high-end kitchen appliances and bathroom fixtures, and the building will have a residents-only health club and secure parking for bicycles. Forty-four storage units and a garage for 44 tenant-only cars will be in the basement. 
 ''Structural modifications like ceiling heights, which will be about 10 and a half feet,'' said Henry Schadler, the head of his firm, ''beams in the way, and floors to be removed and filled in at a lower level are in progress. New windows will match the four-foot-by-eight-foot size of the old ones.''
 No two units will be exactly alike, and three apartments below the clock tower will have wood paneling and solid oak raised-panel doors with hand-carved frames that were salvaged from the original offices.
 The newly constructed top floor will have 10 apartments with 200-square-foot terraces bordered by an existing white marble balustrade that runs around the George Street and Temple Street rooflines. The roof of the theater, which protrudes past the building on the College Street side, will be landscaped to enhance the view of tenants on all three floors above it. 
 The theater, which will show first-run films and art films, will be the only major movie house in downtown New Haven. It is being designed by the New York architectural firm of Furman & Furman and will have 950 seats that are a wider-than-usual 22 inches, a raked auditorium that Richard Furman, president of the firm, said ''will have terrific sight lines and more leg room,'' and a lobby that will be a gathering place. There will be a beverage and coffee bar and a snack foods area with cafe tables.
 The marquee over the entrance is cloudlike -- a pouf of translucent white illuminated from the inside, bearing the name of the theater. Movie titles and other information will appear on a narrow continuously moving line beneath it. Displayed on five-foot panels in the lobby will be preserved switches, dials, gauges and other electrical equipment used by United Illuminating. 
 Until a few years ago, Temple Street and the surrounding area of Crown, College, Church and Chapel Streets were a depressed and unattractive part of downtown. As part of a city rehabilitation program, they have become an increasingly lively locus of new boutiques, nightclubs and restaurants whose ethnicities sound like roll call at the United Nations.
 Henry Fernandez, director of economic development for New Haven, has been working for five years on the regeneration of a 50-square-block area of the downtown that is financed almost entirely with private money. The program is resuscitating New Haven by expanding its cultural and entertainment core.
 Radiating from the New Haven Green are Yale, its bioscience incubator and its Repertory Theater, the Long Wharf Theater (which will move from its current location on the harbor to a downtown site), the York Square Cinema, the Palace Theater, the Shubert Performing Arts Center, the New Haven Symphony Orchestra and the art galleries of Audubon Street. 
 ''Temple Square,'' Mr. Fernandez said, ''is another purely private deal and an exciting addition to downtown.'' 
 The theater part is rooted in the theatrical and real estate history of the Moss family. Ben and Charley, as the father and son call each other and prefer to be called by others, named the theater at Temple Square the Criterion after the Criterion in Manhattan, which was built in 1936 by Charley's grandfather at 1530 Broadway, where the company still has its office. On the street below, the diagonal intersection of Seventh Avenue and Broadway, called the Bow Tie of Times Square, was the source of the company's name. 
 Charley's great-grandfather, B. S. Moss, was a vaudeville impresario in 1900 who gradually moved with his son into theater ownership and eventually a chain of movie theaters. Today, the partnership is diversified as a real estate investment and development company that has bought office buildings, including one each in Milford and Ridgefield, and maintains an office in Aspen that oversees its Colorado real estate and movie theater operations. The company has replaced the old Criterion with flagship stores for Toys ''R'' Us and Swatch Watches.
 ''It's been a slow process, improving New Haven,'' said Lynn Fusco, president of the Fusco Corporation. ''The Temple Square project is a positive development and the rental market for apartments is good, but there is no commercial building going on. Until there is a large job provider, we won't be able to grow -- as Stamford has. But interest by out-of-town developers is an optimistic sign.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Temple Square at George and Temple Streets is to have upscale apartments with one or two bedrooms. It will also have a restaurant and a five-screen movie theater on the street level. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)Map of Connecticut highlighting Temple Square and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); EMPTY NESTERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%) Real Estate; Housing; Renting and Leasing; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Theaters (Buildings); Motion Pictures; Restaurants

COMPANY: UNITED ILLUMINATING CO (83%); FUSCO CORP (82%); TRAUB & CO INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Bow Tie Partners

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (56%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New Haven (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



551 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing's Other Side

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Outsourcing, Turned Inside Out'' (April 11), which described the benefits of insourcing: the hiring of American workers by foreign companies with operations in the United States:
 From the United States' perspective, a majority of jobs that American companies have sent offshore have been those historically held by high school graduates: assembly-line jobs, call-center jobs and so on. Conversely, insourcing has brought some manufacturing jobs to this country, but many insourced jobs have been technical and professional positions for college graduates. 
 In this way, the global movement of jobs is reinforcing technological change to tilt the labor market against men and women who lack postsecondary education. Given the country's weak safety net, we should expect that the movement of jobs offshore will remain a political issue even if insourcing is significant.

Frank Levy
Richard J. Murnane
Cambridge, Mass., April 14

Mr. Levy, an economist at M.I.T., and Mr. Murnane, an economist at Harvard, are co-authors of ''The New Division of Labor'' (Princeton University Press and the Russell Sage Foundation), to be published in June.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); OFFSHORING (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); WRITERS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); CALL CENTERS (55%) 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Frank Levy; Richard J Murnane

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004



552 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3000 words

HEADLINE: Decade of Democracy Fills Gaps in South Africa

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES and SHARON LaFRANIERE

DATELINE: SOSHANGUVE, South Africa 

 BODY:
Some days are unforgettable, and so it is that Meisie Ndlovu and John Henshall both recall what they were doing 10 years ago on April 26, 1994, when South Africa won its freedom. 
 Mr. Henshall stood in a broiling sun in his all-white suburb, part of a two-mile line of voters electing the first democratic president. Ms. Ndlovu stood in a line in her all-black town, listening to neighbors exult that democracy meant free food, forever, for everyone.
 Mr. Henshall was skeptical that black rule would be as bad as some neighbors feared. Ms. Ndlovu was skeptical that it would be as good as neighbors predicted. 
 ''I didn't believe it,'' she said, laughing. ''I said, 'This government is going to be poor.' I said, 'I am not educated, but I can think.' '' 
 As it turned out, they were both right.
 This is a tale about the Ndlovus, black and striving, and the Henshalls, white and coping, and what a decade of democracy has brought them and their country.
 The two families are not acquainted. Indeed, they are separated, like most blacks and whites here, by huge racial and economic divides.
 But if a lesson can be drawn from a decade of multiracial democracy, a transformation hailed for its almost miraculous absence of rancor, it is that families like these are far more alike today than they were before 1994 -- both in aspirations and fears. 
 For Ms. Ndlovu, a plump, round-faced woman with a quick laugh, there is no mistaking what 10 years of freedom have done. Just look at her toolshed. 
 Set behind her brick home just outside this city of 146,000, the shed is 10 feet by 10 feet, a listing shambles of rusted corrugated iron and sheet metal, unexceptional but for this: before it was a toolshed, the Ndlovu family lived there for five years.
 Under apartheid, Ms. Ndlovu was an illiterate black domestic in a white household. Today she runs her own construction company, laying asphalt and building fences on freeway projects. Her three-bedroom home has new living-room furniture and a carved wood door.
 Her old shack sits in the backyard, a dilapidated reminder of the past. Her 17-year-old daughter calls it ''scary.'' Ms. Ndlovu refuses to tear it down. ''I like that house,'' she said. ''I suffered in that house.''
 There is also no mistaking what a decade has brought John and Liann -- Li for short -- Henshall. Just look at Kyalami Estate, the idyllic suburb they and their three children call home.
 Ten miles north of Johannesburg, theirs is an American-style community, studded with tennis courts, parks, lakes and community centers, unexceptional but for this: it is enclosed by a 10-foot brick wall, crowned with an electric fence.
 Five miles west is the Diepsloot squatter camp, 11 years old and 86,000 impoverished people strong -- Ms. Ndlovu's toolshed, replicated by the thousands. The Henshalls, whites who prospered in a decade of black rule, feel for Diepsloot's residents. Not unreasonably, they fear them, too.
 ''We believe that if you employ your own police force and you live behind the right kind of wall, you stand a chance,'' said Mr. Henshall, a bluff man with an embracing manner. ''We're happy inside our walls.'' 
 Outside the walls, they are wary. Li says, ''How good can life be if you have to live in fear?''
 A decade after apartheid, many analysts say South Africa has stepped back from the racial precipice. The real worry now, they say, is not the racial gap, but the gap between the haves, of any color, and the have-nots -- what President Thabo Mbeki calls two economies ''without a connecting staircase.''
 South Africa's four million plus whites still dominate an economy serving 45 million citizens. They claim nearly half of all income. Yet today they are joined by as many as 11 million blacks who are also entrenched in the middle and upper classes. 
 More black children are in school; more black adults are literate; millions more blacks have clean water, electricity, toilets. 
 At the same time, a vast black underclass is swelling. Roughly half of South Africans are either poor or on the edge of poverty, economists say. Thirty to 40 percent are jobless. The United Nations says the living standard has fallen since 1990, mostly because of the devastation of AIDS. 
 Crime, among the world's worst, is terrifying for its strikingly gratuitous violence. Skilled workers are still leaving, but a much feared exodus of whites never materialized.
 Even Kyalami Estate, where the Henshalls live, is itself one-third black -- reflecting tumbling economic barriers and blacks' equal fear of crime. But the races seldom mingle, the family said.
 For all its peaceful changes, this is not a land of lion-and-lamb peace. ''Weary tolerance is one way to describe it,'' says Tom Lodge, an analyst at University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. Some whites feel the sting of lost power; many blacks resent whites' continued privilege. But majority rule has proved a balm, he said, fostering ''a sense among ordinary black people that things will change.''
 Ms. Ndlovu suspects that whites, a tenth of the population, still wait for black solidarity to dissolve. ''I don't think a person can just change,'' she said. ''They want to get back. They still want to run the country.'' 
 John Henshall says blacks' anger has subsided since the powder-keg era of apartheid's demise. His wife, Li, disagrees. ''They still feel that,'' she replied. ''Blacks don't like whites. They will never forgive Afrikaners, never.''
 Still, a force stronger than their mistrust binds Ms. Ndlovu, who rose in 10 years to the head of the little Meithlo Construction Company, and the Henshalls, who run a bustling forklift business out of their $225,000 home. Unlike the have-nots, both of them have a stake in making this miracle work. 
 Or, as Mr. Henshall wryly puts it, ''Everyone has something to lose.''

Rebuilding a Life
 Few in Soshanguve could have said that when Meisie (pronounced mee-see) Ndlovu arrived.
 It was 1989, the year before Nelson Mandela was freed from prison. Soshanguve, created 15 years before to house Pretoria's black workers out of whites' sight, was an endless expanse of shanties on rolling scrubland 20 miles from the capital. 
 Ms. Ndlovu's sheet-metal shack was the first on her nameless dirt street in Block M. Five Ndlovus, plus two children from her brother Thomas's broken marriage, shared a dirt floor and an iron roof.
 For them, this was a step up in the world. 
 Ms. Ndlovu grew up on a white-owned farm, helping her father and great-aunt mop floors, collect firewood and haul water for the owners. Thomas attended school at age 13; she had no such luck.
 They treated her kindly. But later, other white employers ''didn't treat us like people,'' she said. ''You can't drink from their glasses. You can't sit in the chair where the white lady had been sitting. You can't go to their toilet.'' On a trip, her employers stayed in hotels; she slept in the car. 
 Ms. Ndlovu left at age 20, married a driver and bore two boys and a girl. They spent 12 years in a shack at his mother's squatter camp near Pretoria. Daytimes, she hiked a half-mile to a creek for water, digging wells in the mud when it ran dry. Nights, she attended school over her husband's protests.
 In 1989, the couple scraped together $2,000 for a hillside plot in Soshanguve. South Africa was in the throes of revolution, but Ms. Ndlovu was not in its ranks.
 ''I am not in politics,'' she said. ''I am just Meisie.''
 Instead, she fought for her family. She opened a hair salon in a black Pretoria storefront in 1991, training stylists for $25 apiece -- women like her, desperate to feed their children. Her husband left her for a girlfriend. 
 As she cast her first ballot in 1994, neighbors predicted nirvana. ''Someone said, 'After we vote, we are not going to buy food anymore! We are going to get it free!' '' she said. ''And we won't have to work!'' 
 Ms. Ndlovu knew better. But that year, a three-bedroom brick home with a concrete floor was rising beside her shack, with Ms. Ndlovu laying brick and hanging gutters; laborers pouring cement; a 10-year, $14,000 symbol of her rising fortunes. 
 Meanwhile, the new government began addressing Soshanguve's needs.
 Anticrime floodlights sprouted in back alleys. Workers laid lines for water and power; paved roads; built a stadium, a cricket grounds, a shopping mall. The black technical college merged with a white Pretoria university. Government workers built 5,000 one-room homes. 
 Yet Soshanguve's squatter camps, visible from Ms. Ndlovu's back steps, also mushroomed. Free to travel for the first time, uneducated blacks headed for cities like Pretoria in an often futile search for jobs. 
 Ms. Ndlovu's brother, Thomas Mangwane, found that freedom or not, a seventh-grade education limited him. His efforts to start a tavern, a store and a window-framing business all failed. Now he drives a cab. ''If you don't have an education, no one takes you seriously,'' he said.
 Ms. Ndlovu agreed. She spent $2,000 to send her eldest son, Johnathan, to law school, then $3,000 to train his brother, Bongani, in information technology. ''I will get a pain if I saw that they didn't go to school,'' she said. ''So I will work the rest of my life for these children.'' 
 Bongani dropped out, but Ms. Ndlovu persevered. Inspired by Soshanguve's reconstruction, she quit her salon in 1999 to form a women's construction cooperative named Bakoni -- Tswana for ''we can do it.'' 
 For three months, she hitchhiked 150 miles weekly to Nelspruit, in the subtropical east, to study construction management and skills. Prodded by government incentives to train blacks, a major South African construction company footed the bill.
 Ms. Ndlovu timidly warned her teacher that her spelling and math were lacking. ''He was a white guy,'' she said. ''But he was a good guy.'' He stayed after class to tutor her.
 Black subcontractors became in demand from white firms, which saw that their cheap labor offered an edge in bidding for government jobs. One hired Ms. Ndlovu to erect guardrails and pave toll plazas and underpasses on freeway projects. Lacking even a truck, she hand-carried tools, cement and poles to her first job, and hand-wrote invoices.
 But her work was impressive. ''Excellent,'' her evaluator wrote. 
 Ms. Ndlovu replied with a thank-you note that read, ''We hope to continue working with you in the extreme.''

Facing the Present
 As Ms. Ndlovu set down roots in Soshanguve, John Henshall quit a management job to start from scratch with Li, selling and renting forklifts. They had few illusions about the risk: apartheid was crumbling, and the economy with it. ''The whole place could've packed up,'' he said. 
 But he was impressed by an argument advanced by one white businessman for burying apartheid. ''You could have the whole of nothing, or a piece of something,'' he said. ''Two cakes.'' 
 In part, John Henshall's upbringing made him sympathetic. Even at apartheid's pinnacle in the late 1950's, in his childhood home of Nelspruit, the Henshall family was an exception. Racial castes may have been inviolate, but apartheid was not.
 The black servants ''never sat in our chairs, and never ate off our plates, never,'' Mr. Henshall recalled. But his father, Richard, ignored a ban on hiring black mechanics and painters, training them and paying them a white man's salary. His mother, a British nurse, ran a feeding program for malnourished black families.
 ''You had a system, but you didn't have to live by that system,'' said Richard Henshall, now 82. Apartheid, he said, ''was absolutely damned ridiculous.'' 
 As democracy arrived, Mr. Henshall held his breath. But the family business prospered. Fearing the consequences of white flight and economic ruin, the new government bent over backward to keep white businesses alive. Few of their nightmares came to pass.
 ''The only problem we've suffered as white people,'' Mr. Henshall said, ''has been major crime.''
 In 1995, the Henshalls settled in Morningside, a northern Johannesburg suburb about a mile from Alexandra, an impoverished black township. 
 As the couple lay in bed late one night, a black face appeared at their bedroom window. ''He'd jumped the wall -- we didn't have electric fencing, just the razor wire,'' Mrs. Henshall said. ''I could have taken a gun and shot him, I was so scared.''
 The man fled, but Mrs. Henshall stopped letting her children play alone in their backyard. ''Five years in that house, I never slept,'' she said. 
 Five miles away, on Alexandra's other border, Li's brother Hayden Goldman and his wife, Barbara, shared those fears. 
 The Goldmans lived with their teenage children, Kirsty and Andrew. Andrew, 19, was a budding geophysicist, winner of a four-year university scholarship from Anglo-American, the gold-mining empire.
 In June 1994, he cast his first vote. ''He was so excited,'' Mr. Goldman said. ''We stood in the queue together, and we were so happy that things were going to become normal.''
 Six months later, Andrew drove to his girlfriend's home nearby. As he drove past the driveway's sliding gate, two men darted in. They shot him in one leg through his closed car window. Then they shot him in the head.
 The Goldmans raced there. Ms. Goldman heard screaming, then her husband's shouts to stop. ''Eventually,'' she said, ''I realized it was me screaming. So I stopped. It was my worst nightmare.'' 
 The killers were never found. Ms. Goldman, who now counsels crime victims of both races, has since been robbed at gunpoint twice. Her husband was robbed in their garage -- unable to remove his wedding ring, the thieves tried to bite off his finger. 
 The couple nearly emigrated to New Zealand, Ms. Goldman said. Li Henshall also pondered leaving. In the mid-1990's, she said, her children came home reporting another friend's departure almost daily.
 Instead, the Henshalls moved in 2000 to Kyalami Estate, where a 24-hour security force patrols and a gated guardhouse screens visitors. John Henshall jokingly calls it ''our prison.'' 
 Ms. Ndlovu does not joke about prison. In December, her son Bongani, the 23-year-old dropout, was arrested in a robbery in which the black victim was killed. Bongani Ndlovu swears that his friends duped him into driving the getaway car, Ms. Ndlovu said. The police charged one friend with murder.
 His brother, Johnathan, studying pre-law, despairs that Bongani has sunk from helping paint their dining room to living in prison. ''I am ashamed,'' he said. Bongani's legal bills also worry him: ''Now the car we have to fix. She is paying for my studies, and the utilities, and also the outstanding debts.'' 
 Ms. Ndlovu is distraught, but firm. The trial begins next month. Bongani will stay in jail until then. 
 ''He said, 'Mama, I won't do it anymore,' '' she said. ''I wanted to put up bail.''
 ''But when I look at that mother'' of the slain young man, she said, ''I really cry.'' 
 ''They do this, they must be punished.''
 Ms. Ndlovu agrees that crime is government's biggest challenge. Driving from her home one afternoon, she pointed to the silver cellphone under her dashboard. It is her fifth. Her workers stole the others. 
 ''They come at night and steal the petrol,'' she said. ''I find out in the morning when I try to go to work.''

Hope for a New Generation
 Still, Meisie Ndlovu has hopes. She wants to move from subcontracting to better-paying contracting. She wants a computer and a fax machine. She wants Johnathan to break into the ranks of white lawyers and Bongani to get a second chance.
 She would like another husband. But she fears AIDS, so ''I just keep myself busy with work,'' she said.
 She believes that ''some whites have changed.'' But her church, her daughter's high school, her town -- in fact, her whole world -- is black, save the whites who monitor her work. She figures she is too old to see that change.
 ''The new generation is the one that is going to get the new world,'' she said. ''They are going to work together. Not the old people. The young generation is the one who is going to know the truth.''
 Her son Johnathan agrees. The ranks of the legal profession are lily-white, but he hopes to break in. He is not sure what to think of white people yet. ''I take a person as I find them,'' he said. ''I have never interacted with many whites.''
 John and Li Henshall have hopes, too, for a safer and more harmonious nation. They say Mr. Mandela's message of tolerance is firmly imprinted on their three children. ''You say one thing negative about the blacks, they will shout you down -- 'You are a racist!' '' Mrs. Henshall said. ''It is actually quite good.''
 Their world is somewhat less monochrome than that of the Ndlovus: their children's school is integrated, and their firm's black employees and customers are acquaintances. 
 They feel regretful, not guilty, about apartheid. ''You know, it wasn't my fault,'' Mrs. Henshall said flatly. Still, they plan to educate their maid's grandson. 
 ''That is how we come to terms with it,'' Mr. Henshall said. ''Privately.'' 
 Ten years ago, they say, whites endlessly bemoaned South Africa's irreversible descent. But no more.
 ''There isn't that hatred that there was at first,'' John Henshall said. ''Things haven't really improved, but they haven't gotten that much worse. Perhaps all the promises are futile, and nothing is going to come of it, and everybody has just settled down and said, 'We've got our life.' '' 
 Or perhaps, says Ms. Ndlovu's brother Thomas, people need not only to forgive, but also to forget -- not forever, but long enough for wounds to heal. 
 ''I still remember my kid asking me, 'What was that thing you called apartheid?' '' he said. 
 ''I said, really, I don't know, too. All I know is, we were just separated -- those were blacks, those were whites, and whites were living alone.
 ''That's why say I don't like to talk about it, because I want to forget it,'' he said. ''I want to start from right here, going forward, and teach my kids: No, those people used to do that. But it was that time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Meisie Ndlovu, above, next to her former home, and Tiffany, John and Ross Henshall, in their suburban yard, are more alike now than ever. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Meisie Ndlovu, top right, at home in Soshanguve with her niece Mina Mangwane, prospered after apartheid ended and started a construction company. John Henshall, above left with son Ross in Kyalami Estate, has remained successful in his forklift business. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart: ''South Africa: Ten Years After Apartheid''Though whites still dominate the economy, more blacks have joined the middle class. At the same time, crime and an underclass have grown.Population: 44.8 millionFrom the 2001 censusBlack: 79%White: 9.6%Mixed: 8.9Other: 2.5Unemployment rate, 2002*Includes those who have given up looking for workBlack: 47.8%White: 9.9Overall: 40.91994Disposable IncomeIn U.S. dollars, per capitaBlacks: $1,158Whites: 8,652CrimesBURGLARY: 228,021ASSAULT: 210,250ROBBERY: 84,900RAPE: 43,216MURDER: 26,8322002Disposable IncomeIn U.S. dollars, per capitaBlacks: 1,480Whites: 9,555CrimesBURGLARY: 315,623ASSAULT: 264,399ROBBERY: 119,185RAPE: 52,107MURDER: 21,738*The most recent year for which figures are available.(Sources by Statistics South Africa
 University of South Africa, Bureau of Market Research)(pg. A10)Map of South Africa highlighting Soshanguve: Soshanguve was created 15 years ago to house blacks who worked in Pretoria. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (87%); POLITICS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); TRENDS (63%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Geographic Profiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Blacks; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Michael Wines; Sharon Lafraniere

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) South Africa; South Africa

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



553 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Donor Nations Reach Accord for Efficient Use of AIDS Funds

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
The United States and other wealthy donors fighting the global AIDS epidemic agreed Sunday to coordinate their efforts to ensure that poor nations receiving their assistance can spend the money efficiently and more effectively.
 Admitting that donors often force poor countries to waste precious resources doing duplicative surveys and reports, the United Nations AIDS organization reached an accord with the United States, Britain and other nations to streamline the way they give money to countries fighting AIDS.
 They convened here to take advantage of the presence of national finance and development officials gathered for the annual spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 
 The agreement came as wealthy nations have failed to meet several financing targets, and battles over patents have kept antiretroviral drugs from reaching more than 90 percent of the poor people who need them. 
 The assistance that does reach those poor countries too often comes with strings requiring special programs or allowing donor countries to take individual credit. In one instance, Angola was required to accommodate nearly 40 donor visits, leading to duplication and wasted efforts, officials of the United Nations organization said.
 Dr. Peter Piot, the executive director of the organization, said the new agreement would provide each country with a single action program to coordinate donations, a single authority in each country that receives the money and a single system for monitoring and evaluating how it is spent.
 ''What is really new is this is an agreement between the people who have the money saying that they will leave their flags and affiliations at the door and make sure the resources are spent wisely,'' Dr. Piot said in an interview.
 The other nations signing the agreement were Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden.
 The groups and countries agreed that the system should be fully working within a year.
 With 6,000 people dying of AIDS every day, the world must do a better job of spending its money, Ambassador Randall Tobias, the new global AIDS coordinator for President Bush, said in a statement. 
 ''AIDS is an emergency that requires urgent action and a new way of doing business,'' Mr. Tobias said.
 The United States has been criticized for starting its own AIDS program, thereby reducing its contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Mr. Bush promised in his 2003 State of the Union address to spend $15 billion over five years on AIDS in Africa and the Caribbean, but his budget requests have fallen far short of that goal. For the most recent donation to the Global Fund, he requested only $200 million, although Congress authorized $550 million. 
 Donations to the Global Fund are $1.6 billion a year, barely 20 percent of what the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, said was needed when he created it in 2001. 
 Although donations fall well short of expectations, they are rising, Robin Gorna, the chief of the H.I.V./AIDS policy division for Britain's aid agency, said in an interview here.
 The increase in donations and the inability of poor nations to keep up with demands tied to the donations led officials to negotiate the accord during the last six months. 
 ''These things matter,'' Ms. Gorna said. ''We know some of these countries are screaming for help to streamline the process and free up valuable health workers who are busy satisfying donors instead of taking care of patients. Otherwise, it is chaos.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MALARIA (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ANTIVIRALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Foreign Aid; Bureaucratic Red Tape

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%) United Nations

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (79%); NORWAY (79%); ANGOLA (79%); FINLAND (79%); AFRICA (79%); DENMARK (77%); NETHERLANDS (74%); BELGIUM (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (68%); GERMANY (53%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



554 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; Rebuilding a River Upstate, For the Love of a Tiny Mussel

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Dam to Be Demolished to Save an Endangered Species

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: CUDDEBACKVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Back in the skinny woods where he spends lots of time, George E. Schuler sometimes stares at the cool, fast river trying to figure what a dwarf wedgemussel might think was paradise -- that is, if it had a brain, which it doesn't. 
 But the tiny freshwater mussel, no bigger than a quarter and one of the most endangered species in upstate New York, does have a heart. And after studying the tiny mollusk's every twitch and shudder for nearly a decade, Mr. Schuler, a biologist who grew up on a farm in Ohio, thinks he knows what's in it. 
 The mussels are notoriously picky about their living arrangements, demanding silt-free fresh water that is neither too cold nor too fast. 
 ''They like to be in little refugia,'' Mr. Schuler said, describing in intimate-sounding terms the cozy coves and sheltered niches where mussels love to hide. 
 The problem is that while the wedgemussels survive happily in a part of the Neversink River that Mr. Schuler looks after for the Nature Conservancy, a national environmental organization, not one of them is ever found upstream of an old dam that spans the river. 
 That got him to thinking. A few years ago he proposed something radical -- restoring the river to its natural state by removing the dam. This would give one of the most significant populations of dwarf wedgemussels in the world a little bit of elbow room -- that is if they had elbows, which they don't. 
 While other states have torn down old dams for environmental reasons, New York, which has thousands of them, never has. But based on Mr. Schuler's observations, and a promise of logistical support by the Army Corps of Engineers, local officials here approved his plan, especially when told they would not have to pay a penny of the $1.8 million cost. 
 But breaking up the old dam, 107 feet long and 8 feet high, is only part of the project. Before it could come down, later this year, Mr. Schuler had to come up with detailed blueprints for restoring the riverbed. 
 In essence, he has become a river architect, and his principal clients, whose likes he has tried to divine and whose every whim he has tried to address, are the wedgemussels. 
 Recreating their favorite hangouts will be tricky, since the dam has impeded the Neversink's free flow for almost a century. The river's natural contour has been drastically modified and its ecosystem radically altered. 
 Mr. Schuler also knows that while the wedgemussel is his principal client, he has to be responsive to the needs of human residents in this area, which reached its economic peak 150 years ago. The people insisted that artifacts of their proud past along the river be preserved. 
 With so many competing interests, how is it possible to do what nature never did: that is, design a river that meets all expectations. 
 ''It's part science and part art,'' said Mr. Schuler, a graduate of the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. He said his goal was not the re-establishment of the pristine conditions of the 18th century before the area was colonized, but a restoration that will protect the mussels and respect the people living nearby. 
 For the Nature Conservancy, removing the Cuddebackville dam marks an important turning point. Known primarily for buying land that is environmentally sensitive or threatened by development, the organization has recently broadened its scope to focus on entire ecosystems that endangered species need to survive. 
 ''The Neversink project is a microcosm of how the Nature Conservancy has evolved,'' said Henry Tepper, the organization's director in New York State. ''We have to have more flexibility than just buying land and putting a fence around it.''
 The dwarf wedgemussel was discovered in the Neversink in 1990, the same year it was placed on the federal endangered species list. In 1993, the Nature Conservancy, in accord with its traditional mission, acquired 170 upland acres of land and created the Neversink Preserve to protect the mussel. The preserve, through additional land purchases by the conservancy, now covers 630 acres. 
 But Mr. Schuler realized that just acquiring land was not enough to protect the wedgemussel, because its life cycle was quite complicated. 
 The mussels rely on fish in the river to grow. They wiggle a fleshy flap of skin to attract sculpins, small fish without scales. When nosey or hungry sculpins inch close enough to the wedgemussels, they get sprayed with larvae, which cling to the fish. The developing mussels detach and form new colonies. 
 The Cuddebackville dam, built in the early 1900's to provide water for a local hydroelectric plant, blocked the sculpins. That is why the wedgemussel offspring that hitched a ride on the fish could never spread beyond the dam.
 The linkage of mussels, fish and the dam made it clear that the dam, abandoned since 1945 and dangerously deteriorated, had to go. 
 But taking apart the dam and removing the debris is just the first step. The Neversink itself, whose odd name is believed to be the phonetic pronunciation of American Indian words that mean ''water between highlands,'' must be rebuilt. 
 For one, the riverbed above the dam will be several feet higher than the area immediately below the dam. Decades of pounding have scoured that area, creating a deep pool. The two levels have to be resculpted so that water moves at a steady velocity, without creating silt that can bury the mussels. 
 Once the riverbed is renovated, the river bottom will have to be redecorated. Mr. Schuler and the project's consulting engineer did extensive surveys of the existing riverbed, especially the areas favored by the wedgemussels, so that they could accurately recreate those conditions and encourage the growth of the mussel population. 
 That meant charting the size and placement of boulders and counting the pebbles in various sections of river bottom. Too many rocks would crowd the mussels out of the gentle coves they prefer, and too few would leave them dangerously exposed to the fluctuating currents. 
 ''A rule of thumb is if you want to encourage a species, you try to mimic the conditions that are already there,'' said James G. MacBroom, the engineer whose firm, Milone & MacBroom, has been working on the Neversink restoration. 
 Mr. Schuler has gone out of his way to please his client, traveling to an upstate sand and gravel mine to select boulders with the right color and texture for the Neversink. Once the boulders are roughly in place, art takes over from science, and the crowbars come out. Final adjustments are made not according to a detailed plan, he said, but a feel for the river and its critters.
 ''We spent enough time in the river to know what we're looking for,'' he said.
 That sometimes puts him in conflict with the engineers. For example, the Corps of Engineers is worried that once a concrete embankment is removed, the river's edge near the dam will have to be shored up with boulders. Mr. Schuler disagrees. 
 ''That's not restoration,'' he said, ''that's engineering.'' 
 There also is another dam on the same stretch of the Neversink. Older and longer than the one being removed, this dam sits on the other side of a small island and diverts river water to the old Delaware and Hudson Canal, which runs through the area. Local residents wanted to keep water flowing into the canal and refused to allow that dam to be destroyed. 
 Instead, the dam will be lowered several feet and a rock ramp built to help shad, sculpins and other fish get over the impediment. 
 The D & H Canal, which reached its heyday in the late 1800's, is another reminder that while the long decline of economic activity in upstate New York has brought hardship, it has also revitalized the environment. 
 The Neversink Reservoir, about 40 miles upstream from the dams, is generally considered to have the cleanest and best water in New York's vast water supply system. The river is so clean it is sometimes described as gin clear, perhaps a nod to the habits of the fly fishermen who consider it a benchmark trout stream. 
 Removing the dam will wipe away some of the remaining evidence of the area's former economic vitality, but Mr. Schuler's insistence on mixing science and art, while using equal parts brain and heart, may achieve a kind of equilibrium this old settlement has not seen before. 
 ''Juggling both natural history and cultural history is important in an area like this,'' he said, walking along the towpath of the old canal. ''Having a secure ecological treasure side by side with a part of our cultural history like this is important to our ability to know who we are.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Nature Conservancy officials, Henry Tepper, foreground, and George E. Schuler, tour the Cuddebackville dam, about 75 miles northwest of New York City. The dam is to be torn down later this year for the sake of the dwarf wedgemussel. (Photo by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)
 One of the world's most significant populations of the endangered dwarf wedgemussel inhabits the Neversink River at Cuddebackville, N.Y. (Photo by Hardie Truesdale)Map of New York shows the location of the Cuddebackville dam: While one Neversink dam will be removed, another will be altered. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); RIVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); ENGINEERING (66%); ARMIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



555 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Speaking Up for Cleaner Air

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
SEVERAL environmental groups are seeking to influence automakers to produce cleaner vehicles. Here are some of the more significant organizations:

CLEAN CAR CAMPAIGN: In addition to pressuring automakers to reduce emissions and increase fuel economy, this coalition also works to reduce or eliminate use of mercury and PVC plastic in autos.

EARTH LIBERATION FRONT: This group's extreme views -- and its actions that include taking credit for S.U.V. arson fires -- has led the F.B.I. to classify it a terrorist group. According to its Web site, earthliberationfront.com, ''Since 1997, the E.L.F. in North America has caused over $100 million in damages to entities who profit from the destruction of life and the planet.''

GLOBAL EXCHANGE: This San Francisco-based organization focuses primarily on human rights, but it joined a coalition last year to criticize Ford's environmental performance. ''We are taking our demands directly to Detroit,'' said Jason Mark, the group's communications director.

SIERRA CLUB: The well-known group regularly engages the auto industry on environmental issues. Dan Becker, its chief global warming spokesperson in Washington, is known for his sound bites. ''Ford's overall fuel economy is at a 20-year low,'' Mr. Becker said.

UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS: Based in Cambridge, Mass., this group issues reports on clean-car technology and works to pass legislation. ''I don't think of our approach as confrontational or non-confrontational,'' says David Friedman, the group's research director. ''We just try to bring the best technical information to bear.'' JIM MOTAVALLI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECOTERRORISM (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ARSON (71%); TERRORISM (70%); WEB SITES (55%); LEGISLATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); SIERRA CLUB (55%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



556 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Latin America's Fragile Democracies

 BODY:
The spread of democracy in Latin America in the past quarter-century was so thorough, it's easy to take the triumph for granted. It's easy to lose sight of just how anomalous it is for the bulk of Latin America to be governed by democratic rule, given the region's authoritarian tradition and trends in other developing parts of the world. 
 An ambitious report released last week by the United Nations Development Program sounds the alarm against complacency. Latin America's democracies are so fragile because their failure to deliver on their initial promise has discredited them. The U.N. program surveyed thousands of people in 18 democratic Latin American countries and found that a solid majority would prefer an authoritarian system if it produced economic benefits.
 Clearly, this endorsement of the Pinochet model shows that most Latin Americans do not feel as if they have a stake in their democracy. It is little wonder, really, given the high levels of poverty and social inequality that persist from Mexico to Argentina, coupled with chronic official corruption.
 Going to the polls every so often to vote is nice enough, but meaningful democracy is about more than elections and market-opening economic reforms -- the twin obsessions of United States policy makers and multilateral financial organizations. Democratization in much of Latin America, if it is to be completed rather than reversed, now requires a bold set of reforms aimed at bolstering the rule of law, such as the development of independent judiciaries. The U.N. report smartly addresses these issues, which is why it should be required reading for all policy makers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%); CORRUPTION (52%) Editorials; Freedom and Human Rights; Elections; Public Opinion; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (57%) United Nations

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



557 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; Patents

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: The Lemelson Foundation, named for a prolific inventor, aims to reward inventions that help poor countries develop.

BYLINE: By Teresa Riordan

 BODY:
AT a reception last week at the National Academy of Sciences in Washington, featuring a performance by the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, the Lemelson-M.I.T. program awarded two of the biggest prizes open to inventors. 
 The first, with a $500,000 purse attached, went to Nick Holonyak Jr. for inventing the first practical red light-emitting diode. The other, worth $100,000, went to Edith Flanigen for her pioneering work with zeolite Y, a molecular sieve used widely in petroleum refinement.
 In its 10th anniversary, the Lemelson Foundation, which endowed the invention prizes, is poised to take a new direction with its philanthropy, a direction that seems surprising given that Jerome Lemelson, whose millions made the foundation possible, was an ardent supporter of the American inventor. 
 By 2006, the foundation aims to devote half of its estimated annual $13 million budget on financing what the foundation calls ''sustainable invention'' in the developing world, a very different tack from rewarding American ingenuity with lucrative cash prizes and lush ceremonies. In addition, the foundation has already begun to make relatively small investments in innovators and entrepreneurs in places like Costa Rica, Indonesia and Kenya.
 To a large extent, this shift reflects the interests of Jerome Lemelson's sons, Rob and Eric, who along with their wives, and their mother, Dorothy, oversee the foundation. Jerome Lemelson died in 1997.
 Rob Lemelson, an anthropologist who was a Fulbright scholar in Indonesia, has a special interest in that country. ''Indonesia is the largest Muslim country in the world,'' he said, adding that it was important for Indonesians ''to realize that Americans and American foundations are interested in addressing key issues that are relevant to their lives like water purification and poverty.'' 
 Dorothy Lemelson sees this new direction as an expansion of her husband's original vision. ''All his life, Jerry wanted to celebrate American invention. He felt it was what made this country strong,'' Mrs. Lemelson said. ''Now it's time to turn to the rest of the world and see what we can do for them.''
 Ashok Gadgil, a scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, serves as an adviser to the foundation. ''We are talking about the bottom one-third of humanity on the planet, who earn less than $2 a day,'' he said. ''A video cellphone is not going to help them. They lack access to safe water and suffer the effects of smoke inhalation from dirty biomass cook stoves. Forget about a G.P.S.-navigated automobile; these are people who don't even have a bicycle.''
 The Lemelson brothers started thinking about sustainable innovation about three years ago. They hired an executive director to begin developing a program two years ago, and they expect the program to be in full gear by 2006. 
 One invention that the foundation has subsidized is a pump produced by ApproTec, a nongovernmental agency in Kenya. The treadle pump, which is operated with pedals -- something like a Stairmaster -- allows a farmer to sharply increase the water he can use to irrigate crops. The Lemelson grant went toward creating a drill to pierce the water table. The foundation gave ApproTec $100,000.
 ApproTec's distribution of the treadle pump and other projects have been credited with raising the gross domestic product of Kenya by $35 million, or 0.35 percent, a notion that was described as ''astounding'' by Eric Lemelson, an environmental lawyer by training who operates an organic vineyard in Oregon.
 ''Raising living standards to levels where people can think about things beyond keeping themselves and their children alive from day to day is a critical part of how to solve the sustainable development puzzle,'' Mr. Lemelson said.
 Calestous Juma, professor at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government suggested that the foundation needed to focus on rewarding true innovations rather than financing programs already in existence. The ApproTec pump, for example, was already part of a successful program when the Lemelson Foundation gave it a $100,000 grant last year.
 ''That is a big distinction,'' Professor Juma said. ''It's not that clear what they are supporting so far.'' Offering prizes in the developing world similar to the Lemelson-M.I.T. award, he said, would be ''a very significant incentive.''
 ''If they go the route of simply funding projects, they are competing with much bigger foundations like the Rockefeller, MacArthur, and Ford foundations,'' he said. ''I think the strength of Lemelson would be to continue their tradition of rewarding innovators. No one else is doing this and if they do so, they will serve as an inspiration for other foundations to do similar things.''
 The foundation is no longer stressing patents over the act of invention since many developing countries have no patent system at all or a poorly enforced one. The ideas the foundation finances ''don't have to be patentable,'' Eric Lemelson said. ''They just have to improve lives on a basic level.'' But the foundation plans to fund efforts to strengthen intellectual property institutions. 
 During his lifetime, Jerome Lemelson received more $1 billion in royalties for licenses to his bar-code and machine vision patents, and gave away more than $100 million. While he was revered by independent inventors as the epitome of an American success story, Jerome Lemelson was criticized by corporate lawyers who characterized him as more of a shrewd manipulator of the patent system than as an inspired inventor. 
 The recipient of 562 patents before his death at the age of 74 in 1997, Mr. Lemelson was second only to Thomas Edison, who was awarded 1,093 patents. Mr. Lemelson has continued to receive patents posthumously, his 590th last month. 
 By most accounts, Jerome Lemelson's sons have been proven to be thoughtful stewards of their father's many millions. Indeed, they say they encouraged their father to pursue philanthropy. 
 ''He was so busy inventing 24 hours a day,'' Rob Lemelson said. ''We said, 'you have great resources, you have great responsibility.' This couldn't have been done without my father's achievement. Eric and I just gave him a little push.''
 Would he have agreed with the new direction the foundation is taking? ''Although the impetus for our international program lies primarily with my brother and me,'' Eric Lemelson said, ''I think Jerry would be fully supportive were he alive today.''

Patents may be viewed on the Web at www.uspto.gov or may be ordered through the mail, by patent number, for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Eric, left, and Rob Lemelson, directors of the Lemelson Foundation, are proud of their support of projects like the treadle pump that has improved the lives of Kenyan farmers. (Photo by Micah Walter for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Martin Fisher) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); BUDGETS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (56%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Inventions and Patents; Third World and Developing Countries; Inventions and Patents

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%) Lemelson Foundation

PERSON: Jerome Lemelson; Eric Lemelson; Teresa Riordan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (90%); KENYA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



558 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Make Peace With Pot

BYLINE: By Eric Schlosser. 
Eric Schlosser is the author of ''Fast Food Nation'' and ''Reefer Madness.''

 BODY:
Starting in the fall, pharmacies in British Columbia will sell marijuana for medicinal purposes, without a prescription, under a pilot project devised by Canada's national health service. The plan follows a 2002 report by a Canadian Senate committee that found there were ''clear, though not definitive'' benefits for using marijuana in the treatment of chronic pain, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy and other ailments. Both Prime Minister Paul Martin and Stephen Harper, leader of the opposition conservatives, support the decriminalization of marijuana. 
 Oddly, the strongest criticism of the Canadian proposal has come from patients already using medical marijuana who think the government, which charges about $110 an ounce, supplies lousy pot. ''It is of incredibly poor quality,'' said one patient. Another said, ''It tastes like lumber.'' A spokesman for Health Canada promised the agency would try to offer a better grade of product. 
 Needless to say, this is a far cry from the situation in the United States, where marijuana remains a Schedule I controlled substance, a drug that the government says has a high potential for abuse, no accepted medical uses and no safe level of use. 
 Under federal law it is illegal to possess any amount of marijuana anywhere in the United States. Penalties for a first marijuana offense range from probation to life without parole. Although 11 states have decriminalized marijuana, most still have tough laws against the drug. In Louisiana, selling one ounce can lead to a 20-year prison sentence. In Washington State, supplying any amount of marijuana brings a recommended prison sentence of five years.
 About 700,000 people were arrested in the United States for violating marijuana laws in 2002 (the most recent year for which statistics are available) -- more than were arrested for heroin or cocaine. Almost 90 percent of these marijuana arrests were for simple possession, a crime that in most cases is a misdemeanor. But even a misdemeanor conviction can easily lead to time in jail, the suspension of a driver's license, the loss of a job. And in many states possession of an ounce is a felony. Those convicted of a marijuana felony, even if they are disabled, can be prohibited from receiving federal welfare payments or food stamps. Convicted murderers and rapists, however, are still eligible for those benefits. 
 The Bush administration has escalated the war on marijuana, raiding clinics that offer medical marijuana and staging a nationwide roundup of manufacturers of drug paraphernalia. In November 2002 the Office of National Drug Control Policy circulated an ''open letter to America's prosecutors'' spelling out the administration's views. ''Marijuana is addictive,'' the letter asserted. ''Marijuana and violence are linked . . . no drug matches the threat posed by marijuana.'' 
 This tough new stand has generated little protest in Congress. Even though the war on marijuana was begun by President Ronald Reagan in 1982, it has always received strong bipartisan support. Some of the toughest drug war legislation has been backed by liberals, and the number of annual marijuana arrests more than doubled during the Clinton years. In fact, some of the strongest opposition to the arrest and imprisonment of marijuana users has come from conservatives like William F. Buckley, the economist Milton Friedman and Gary Johnson, the former Republican governor of New Mexico.
 This year the White House's national antidrug media campaign will spend $170 million, working closely with the nonprofit Partnership for a Drug-Free America. The idea of a ''drug-free America'' may seem appealing. But it's hard to believe that anyone seriously hopes to achieve that goal in a nation where millions of children are routinely given Ritalin, antidepressants are prescribed to cure shyness, and the pharmaceutical industry aggressively promotes pills to help middle-aged men have sex.
 Clearly, some recreational drugs are thought to be O.K. Thus it isn't surprising that the Partnership for a Drug-Free America originally received much of its financing from cigarette, alcohol and pharmaceutical companies like Hoffmann-La Roche, Philip Morris, R. J. Reynolds and Anheuser-Busch.
 More than 16,000 Americans die every year after taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like aspirin and ibuprofen. No one in Congress, however, has called for an all-out war on Advil. Perhaps the most dangerous drug widely consumed in the United States is the one that I use three or four times a week: alcohol. It is literally poisonous; you can die after drinking too much. It is directly linked to about one-quarter of the suicides in the United States, almost half the violent crime and two-thirds of domestic abuse. And the level of alcohol use among the young far exceeds the use of marijuana. According to the Justice Department, American children aged 11 to 13 are four times more likely to drink alcohol than to smoke pot. 
 None of this should play down the seriousness of marijuana use. It is a powerful, mind-altering drug. It should not be smoked by young people, schizophrenics, pregnant women and people with heart conditions. But it is remarkably nontoxic. In more than 5,000 years of recorded use, there is no verified case of anybody dying of an overdose. Indeed, no fatal dose has ever been established. 
 Over the past two decades billions of dollars have been spent fighting the war on marijuana, millions of Americans have been arrested and tens of thousands have been imprisoned. Has it been worth it? According to the government's National Household Survey on Drug Abuse, in 1982 about 54 percent of Americans between the ages of 18 and 25 had smoked marijuana. In 2002 the proportion was . . . about 54 percent. 
 We seem to pay no attention to what other governments are doing. Spain, Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands and Belgium have decriminalized marijuana. This year Britain reduced the penalty for having small amounts. Legislation is pending in Canada to decriminalize possession of about half an ounce (the Bush administration is applying strong pressure on the Canadian government to block that bill). In Ohio, possession of up to three ounces has been decriminalized for years -- and yet liberal marijuana laws have not transformed Ohio into a hippy-dippy paradise; conservative Republican governors have been running the state since 1991.
 Here's an idea: people who smoke too much marijuana should be treated the same way as people who drink too much alcohol. They need help, not the threat of arrest, imprisonment and unemployment. 
 More important, denying a relatively safe, potentially useful medicine to patients is irrational and cruel. In 1972 a commission appointed by President Richard Nixon concluded that marijuana should be decriminalized in the United States. The commission's aim was not to encourage the use of marijuana, but to ''demythologize it.'' Although Nixon rejected the commission's findings, they remain no less valid today: ''For the vast majority of recreational users,'' the 2002 Canadian Senate committee found, ''cannabis use presents no harmful consequences for physical, psychological or social well-being in either the short or long term.''
 The current war on marijuana is a monumental waste of money and a source of pointless misery. America's drug warriors, much like its marijuana smokers, seem under the spell of a powerful intoxicant. They are not thinking clearly.


CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on April 26 about marijuana laws mischaracterized the sentencing rules for supplying the drug in Washington State. Defendants are sentenced based on a variety of factors; five years in prison is not the recommended sentence. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Fitzgerald) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (92%); DECRIMINALIZATION (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ARRESTS (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); FELONIES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES (78%); PHARMACIES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); HERBAL MEDICINE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); DRIVERS LICENSE SUSPENSION & REVOCATION (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); EPILEPSY (71%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (71%); HEROIN (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); MURDER (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (69%); COCAINE (67%); BUDGETS (64%); STATISTICS (63%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Drug Legalization; Marijuana; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN (58%); STEPHEN HARPER (58%) Eric Schlosser; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%) Canada; British Columbia (Canada); Spain; Italy; Portugal; Netherlands ; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



559 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: To Silicon Valley, a Sign of Things Improving

BYLINE: By LAURIE J. FLYNN and MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
From everyman investors to technology executives, the inhabitants of Silicon Valley are expressing strong, but sharply mixed, reactions to reports that the long-anticipated Google public offering may be imminent. 
 The optimists say a Google initial public offering would raise all companies in the valley, including long-suffering technology stocks and still unborn public companies, and they say it may loosen the purse strings of venture capitalists who for three years have been wary of investing in new technologies. 
 The pessimists, on the other hand, see another opportunity: to short the stock and then make a hefty profit when it falls, as they speculate it inevitably will. They are gathering on the sidelines, warning that the valley and its stalwart investors have forgotten the lessons of the dot-com bust and appear too willing to bid on Google far beyond what its financial position justifies. 
 Somewhere in the middle are those who see Google's public offering as a signal that Silicon Valley is making slow, steady gains that are unlikely to match the heady days, but still spell better times for both technology companies and investors.
 ''This is real,'' said Stephen Levy, director of the Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy. ''Google's public offering is an important signal that you can start a company and take it to the market in a public offering.'' And that, he said, will lead to more venture capital investing. 
 After enduring the roller coaster ride of the dot-com era, the valley has in the last two years settled into a much duller rhythm, as the region attempted to soak up excess capacity from the bygone boom and bid goodbye to one start-up after another. But for the last several months, the prospective Google public offering, which some have predicted could raise as much as $25 billion, has given many people here a renewed sense of drama, as well as a hint of how the region might be revived.
 ''In a sense, Google is not representative of anything else because it's such a home run,'' said Michael Boich, a partner at Alta Partners, a venture capital investor in San Francisco. ''But there is a lot more activity.'' 
 Mr. Boich, a member of the team that developed the Macintosh at Apple Computer and who later went on to found several venture-backed companies, said the current environment for public offerings bears little resemblance to the boom years because executives and investors are intent on acting more responsibly. 
 ''I don't think it will be anything like 2000 because no one was doing any due-diligence back then,'' he said.
 Paul Krutko, economic development director for the City of San Jose, Calif., said he thought the East Coast business establishment had during the last few years taken the view that Silicon Valley was lying dormant. He said he hoped the Google offering would change that perspective and put the shine back on the region's reputation.
 ''Growing, innovative companies never went away,'' he said. ''What is going on at Google will go on at a number of other companies in the near term.'' 
 Mr. Levy said he was encouraged by the rising number of Silicon Valley companies reporting increased profits and growth, but the question remained whether the renewed confidence would translate into higher employment. Silicon Valley, he said, has lost 200,000 jobs since 2001, and while companies are making more money this year than last, they have done little hiring. 
 ''In the great scheme of things, the Internet bubble, by Silicon Valley standards, is a thing of the past. It's been corrected,'' said Paul Saffo, a research fellow at the Institute for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif. ''The bubble days always precede the build-out.'' 
 The optimists are also looking to the Google public offering for other good news. According to bankers close to Google, the company is seeking to design its offering to include individual investors, rather than institutions only. During the era of the Internet offerings in the late 1990's, it was nearly impossible for individual investors without an in at the company to acquire shares in a tech company's public offering, though many still made money by buying stock shortly thereafter. 
 But even among those optimists, there is a hint of bitterness about how the deal could again fill the coffers of the region's venture capitalists, who, by the most conservative estimates, stand to make huge sums. One executive from a public technology company that saw its stock price plummet in the dot-com bust -- and never recover -- expressed resentment for the venture capitalists who originally backed Google but have waited several years to realize a return.
 In Internet chat groups, the opinions seemed equally mixed, though perhaps most notable was the fact that there were relatively few people offering commentary. The relative lack of buzz may reflect the fact that people have talked for months about the possibility of a Google public offering, but it has yet to materialize.
 One chatter, going by the name ''yogi-doodle,'' wrote that he is looking forward to shorting the stock. ''The enthusiasm for a stock which has not hit the market is hilarious,'' he wrote in a chat room on the Google Web site, adding, ''Reminds me of 00.''
 In that same chat room, ''Steve'' posted a sobering list of the top 10 reasons not to buy Google stock, noting that the ''lesson of the dot-com bubble is that a great Web site is not always a great business.'' Among the 10 reasons: Google's advertising revenue could fall and it could face renewed competition from Microsoft, Yahoo or another search-engine start-up.
 To which another individual, ''Larry Taylor'' responded, ''Great points,'' but said he would nevertheless consider investing, as he said he did with success during the dot-com boom. ''Looking forward to another possible opportunity to make some extra cash,'' he wrote. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%) Computers and the Internet; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); ALTA PARTNERS LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: Laurie J Flynn; Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



560 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1; HORSE RACING

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: Horse Racing's Biggest Bettors Are Reaping Richest Rewards

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
In horseplaying parlance, Maury Wolff is a whale, one of the thousand or so professional bettors who collectively wager as much as $1.5 billion a year on thoroughbred races in the United States. He will not attend the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs on Saturday. In fact, he and the other whales rarely set foot in a racetrack.
 He will watch the Derby from his home in Alexandria, Va., where a pile of Daily Racing Forms, a stack of videotapes of past races and a computer will give him all the insight he needs into the horses competing. When he decides which horse he believes will win the race, Mr. Wolff will call in his selection.
 Even before the starting gates open at Churchill Downs, Mr. Wolff will have an advantage over many other horseplayers. He bets through what are called rebate shops, which are off-shore, on Indian reservations or in states with fewer regulations. Rebate shops offer from 4 percent to 10 percent back on every dollar wagered -- win or lose. 
 When someone bets more than $100 million a year, as one man did through a North Dakota rebate shop in 2002, the savings add up quickly and often mean the difference between winning and losing money.
 The practice is legal. Mr. Wolff likens his rebates to the cash or airline miles that credit-card users often receive.
 ''Racing is like a lot of businesses in which the best customers get the best deals,'' said Mr. Wolff, a former racetrack executive and an economist. ''Rebates are targeted tax cuts to the consumer who is most responsive to your product. When you turn people into winners from losers, you're going to get astronomical growth.''
 National figures compiled by the Jockey Club, considered the official statistician of the industry, show that rebate operations may have had an impact. In 1997, before they became prevalent, $12.5 billion was bet on horse racing held in the United States; in 2003, more than $15 billion was wagered, a 20 percent increase.
 But the proliferation of rebate shops has stirred intense debate and raised thorny questions within the horse racing industry. 
 *Do rebate shops siphon revenue from the racetracks and from the trainers, jockeys and horse owners who put on the show?
 *Do well-financed gamblers have an unfair advantage over the $2 bettor or even $500-a-day players? 
 *Is gambling on a horse race a game, or is it a financial market that a skilled player can manipulate for profit?
 Unlike casinos, where bookmakers set odds or determine point spreads, horse racing is based on the parimutuel system, which means bettors are wagering against one another and not against the house. All the betting money, including wagers made at the racetrack and at rebate shops, is commingled, or linked into one pool.
 In the Kentucky Derby on Saturday, for example, Churchill Downs will return to bettors at the track about 82 cents of every dollar wagered in the form of winnings. The remaining 18 cents, known as the takeout, will be used to pay for expenses like racing purses, state taxes and track maintenance.
 This business model worked fine 25 years ago. But the advent of telephone and computer wagering has drastically changed the flow of money in the industry.
 Despite the increase in the amount of money wagered on races held in the United States, the purse money given away at racetracks declined in 2003, for the first time in nine years, by nearly 2 percent, to $1 billion, according to the National Thoroughbred Racing Association. The decline is referred to as ''handle up, purses down,'' and the N.T.R.A. formed a task force last month to examine the problem.
 ''We have witnessed over the past few years a significant change in betting patterns where the tracks in the U.S. are receiving less net revenue from interstate simulcasting,'' said Greg Avioli, deputy commissioner for the N.T.R.A. and the task force's chairman. Simulcasting allows racetracks to sell off-site access to their betting pools. ''Money is leaking out of the system and not going back to live racing.''
 Track owners attribute the loss to the rebate shops. The N.T.R.A. says there are currently eight rebate shops, but the number is rising. While rebate shops often pay a higher fee for a track's simulcast signal, they have far less overhead because they need only a small office, a computer system, telephones and a lean staff of operators and technicians.
 ''What you've done with rebates is you have put people in business with your own product and allowed them to undercut your price and steal your best customers,'' said Chris Scherf, executive vice president of the Thoroughbred Racing Associations, which represents 45 tracks. ''That's not how they teach you to do things at the Wharton School of business.''
 Rebate-shop operators, however, say they are attracting new and more money to horse racing and paying a fair share of it to the tracks. Since opening in 1998, Racing & Gaming Services Inc., on St. Kitts, says that its total handle has grown to more than $692 million in wagers in 2003, and that its more than 120 horseplayers increased the amount of their average wagers to more than $21,000 a day last year, from $2,985 in 1998.
 In 2003, Racing & Gaming Services says, it paid more than $30 million to racetracks as fees to carry their signals; in six years, it has paid more than $105 million to tracks in the form of fees.
 Laura A. D'Angelo, a lawyer in Lexington, Ky., who represents Racing & Gaming Services, says it has ''contributed more to purses than numerous racetrack entities, so it is a mystery why they are repeatedly criticized for 'contributing nothing to racing.' ''
 Even the most proficient horseplayers are hard-pressed to make a profit at the track because they cannot beat the takeout, which can range from 14 percent to 25 percent, depending on the track and type of wager. Only the rare handicapper will beat the takeout, while the average bettor will collect 80 cents on his dollar bet.
 A horseplayer must still figure out the probabilities to maximize his profit, but rebates have transformed skilled horseplayers into high-volume, low-margin investors. One Las Vegas-based horseplayer, for example, says that since he began betting with rebate shops, he has increased the amount he wagers from $3 million to $24 million a year in the hope of making 4 percent on his money, or $960,000 in profit.
 ''I'm a professional and work long hours to be among the top 1 percent of handicappers,'' said the man, a 37-year-old Kentucky native who detailed his finances under the condition that he would not be identified. ''I don't like the word rebate -- I call it a track takeout reduction. When I get an average of 10 percent back, I'm 2 points above break-even and am playing for that extra 3 or 4 points of profit at the end of the year that is usually there after the luck evens out.''
 The $500-a-day bettor on the racetrack, meanwhile, starts the day down 20 percent, or $100, because of the takeout, and must be precise in his selections if he hopes to reach the break-even point or make money. Industry officials are concerned that this core audience, which makes up roughly 50 percent of its customer base, will eventually become alienated and move off-site as well.
 While some racetracks give promotional offers to loyal customers, heavy regulation from state to state prevents them from returning cash to bettors in amounts that match the rebate shops.
 ''Our view in general is we believe that offering better pricing for your largest-volume customers is consistent with American business practices,'' said Karl Schmitt, the president of Churchill Downs Simulcast Network, which oversees simulcasting at Churchill's six racetracks. ''But we obviously need to find a way to be more competitive and keep the core and the high-end customer happy.''
 Some within horse racing are also uncomfortable with the idea that sophisticated bettors are treating horse racing like a financial market and profiting handsomely from it.
 ''It's a game, not a financial market, and if people at the racetrack think they are chum and have been thrown out in the water for five or six players to take down, then the chum is going to move on to another game and the whales will move on to another financial market,'' said Mr. Scherf of the Thoroughbred Racing Associations.
 But Mr. Wolff, who is a member of the N.T.R.A. task force, disagrees. For decades, he said, horse racing has marketed itself as a thinking man's game, and skilled players could expect to be successful and make a profit. If the racetracks will not deliver on that expectation, the whales will find an enterprise that will. 
 ''It's a competitive industry targeted at bettors who now want competitive pricing,'' he said. ''The high end is always going to seek the best return. It may be purer to win without a rebate, but when you go to the grocery store, they don't ask you if the money you're buying your milk with is from your winnings or your rebate. Horse racing was built on betting, and if bettors cannot win and they decide to go away, you do not have an industry or a game.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Maury Wolff, a horseplayer who uses so-called rebate shops, never needs to leave his house in Alexandria, Va., to place a bet on a race. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (94%); HORSES (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TAX LAW (68%) Horse Racing; Rebates; Indians, American; States (US); Finances; Horse Racing; Horse Racing

ORGANIZATION: Jockey Club

PERSON: Joe Drape

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



561 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Cuts for Retirees: Shame of a Nation

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The super-inflationary costs of health care are bound to drive the United States to national, universal health coverage. I may not live to see it.
 In the meantime, companies and organizations will experience a frenzy of cost-cutting. 
 Like the crew of a sinking lifeboat, they will begin to cast things overboard.
 It appears that the stage is set for retirees to join the jettisoned. How ironic. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's decision will allow employer coverage of retirees under 65, but a cutoff of benefits of those over 65 -- the ones most likely to need it (front page, April 23).

CHARLES R. COWLEY
Ann Arbor, Mich., April 23, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



562 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: College, for Richer or Poorer

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''As Wealthy Fill Top Colleges, Concerns Grow Over Fairness'' (front page, April 22): A few years ago, I overheard some students discussing their investments right before class. I asked the class how many had stock portfolios. More than two-thirds of the class raised their hands. 
 Elite colleges have always served the wealthy and have historically given lip service to promoting economic diversity. It isn't just that the wealthy student is better prepared. At these institutions, children of wealthy families, often with mediocre academic skills, are given preference for admission. 
 If colleges and universities wanted to open the doors to the middle class and the poor, they could flip this policy around: end preferential admission for the wealthy and start giving preferential admission to those from modest economic backgrounds.

STUART ROJSTACZER
Palo Alto, Calif., April 22, 2004

The writer is an associate professor of environmental science at Duke University.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (88%); FAMILY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



563 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 824 words

PERSON: Rosemary Park Anastos

HEADLINE: Rosemary Park, 97, Dies; Force in Educating Women

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Rosemary Park Anastos, an advocate for women's education and the liberal arts and a former president of Barnard College and Connecticut College for Women, died April 17 at her home in Los Angeles, said a niece, Joan Citron. She was 97. 
 Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came from a family of academics: her mother was a teacher, her father and brother were also college presidents. When she left the Barnard presidency in 1967 after five years, she became the first woman to be a vice chancellor at the University of California. At her Barnard inauguration in 1963, she said that ''to avoid becoming a nursery school to the university with custodial and elementary responsibilities only,'' the college must make its liberal arts more sophisticated. She said that meant moving beyond acquiring facts to the mastery of subjects like advanced mathematics, political and economic theory and classical philosophy. 
 At Connecticut, where she was president from 1947 to 1962, she expanded the student body by one-third, strengthened the curriculum, built major new buildings and was a tireless fund-raiser. She made the campus a national center for modern dance and generally enhanced the college's reputation. When Yale gave her an honorary degree in 1958, it said she had been a major force in ''adding a bright star to the galaxy of liberal arts colleges for women.'' 
 At Barnard, she followed a similar agenda, strengthening the curriculum, adding major buildings and raising money. But she left after five years, pulled by her marriage in 1965 to Milton Vasil Anastos, a professor of Byzantine Greek at the University of California, Los Angeles. He died in 1997. Dr. Park is survived by her stepson, Milton V. Anastos Jr., of Warwick, R.I., and several nieces and nephews.
 Of her departure for California, David Truman, dean of Columbia College, wrote in Barnard's alumnae magazine that although she was the only woman at many Columbia meetings, her wisdom and humor gave weight to her advice and made her ''one of the best men in the university.''
 Not all of her dealings with Columbia were harmonious, however, as she related in an interview with Helen S. Astin, a U.C.L.A. colleague, in ''The Higher Education of Women: Essays in Honor of Rosemary Park.'' When she proposed a new science laboratory for Barnard, she said, Columbia discouraged her, saying its labs were sufficient. But, she said, Barnard did not control those labs, and the absence of its own lab would send a signal ''that it didn't believe in science for women.'' Barnard built a new lab.
 Born in Andover, Mass., Dr. Park was the oldest of four children of J. Edgar Park, a minister raised in Ireland who became president of Wheaton College, in Massachusetts, and Grace Burtt Park, who taught Greek and mathematics. Her brother, William E. Park, was president of Simmons College, in Boston. 
 She studied German at Radcliffe and graduated summa cum laude. She later studied at the University of Bonn in 1930 and in 1934 earned a Ph.D. at the University of Cologne. She began teaching German part time, first at Wheaton, then at Connecticut College, where she became dean of freshmen, academic dean, acting president, then president. 
 She spoke and wrote widely on education, the role of women and other topics, often breaking from conventional wisdom. She told parents that they should encourage their children to take courses in advanced mathematics and French, because society would need scientists and linguists. She said that schools facing teacher shortages should think about using television and older students to help with the teaching; both, she said, had proved effective.
 She often leavened her seriousness with wit. In one speech, she took a swipe at English usage: ''At some point in most of the professions, the regrettable expression 'load' arose: case load, patient load, teaching load,'' she said. ''Artists, as far as I know, do not refer to picture load, poem load or concert load.''
 Although she supported women's education, she was not a zealot. In her interview with Dr. Astin, Dr. Park said that women's colleges were ''particularly important for girls who develop slowly,'' but said men might benefit ''from the same kind of protective environment.'' She predicted that women's colleges would become less necessary, and she won authority to establish Connecticut College for Men and then admitted men as graduate students.
 She was an energetic fund-raiser at a time when it was not always viewed as dignified. To raise $3.1 million for Connecticut College, she crossed the country, meeting with executives who questioned the need to finance women's education.
 She became a vice chancellor at U.C.L.A. in 1967, and then a professor. In 1980, she helped develop the Plato Society, a U.C.L.A. study program for retired people. Until a few months ago, she was a member herself, taking courses like ''Romantic Composers'' and ''Brain and Memory.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosemary Park Anastos in 1998. (Photo by Mary Ann Halpin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CURRICULA (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CLASSICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); DANCE (73%); MATHEMATICS (72%); ALUMNI (66%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



564 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Spending and Tax Revenues Are Both Up in Budget Plan

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
New York City will have to spend hundreds of millions more than anticipated on employee salaries, bus subsidies and other programs in the next fiscal year, but the blow will be softened by higher tax revenues, according to the mayor's budget proposal for 2005.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is expected to cite the benefits of an improving economy when he presents his tax-and-spending plan for the city today. A mayoral aide said yesterday that the budget proposal, totaling about $46 billion, would include revised revenue projections that are higher than what Mr. Bloomberg cited in January, when he released his preliminary plan. 
 ''The job of balancing the next budget won't be simple, but it will be made easier as the city's economy continues to rebound,'' Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday in his weekly radio address. ''When businesses are growing and hiring, that produces the tax revenue that pays for city services.''
 The City Council had forecast in March that revenues would be more than $500 million higher than the mayor's January estimates. By moving his numbers closer to the Council's, the mayor gives himself the flexibility to deal with a list of costly expenditures in the year ahead, without having to cut deeply into city services or resort to layoffs.
 The mayor must now begin negotiations with the Council to iron out a final budget by June.
 Among the expenses that the Bloomberg administration either hoped to avoid or did not anticipate for the fiscal year starting in July are subsidies of $200 million for the Health and Hospitals Corporation and $150 million for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which made that financing a condition of its agreement last week to take over operation of private bus service in the city.
 Also, the city faces roughly $200 million in first-year costs for a labor agreement reached last week with its largest municipal workers union, as well as $100 million in additional spending to comply with a new lead-abatement law.
 In addition, the city faces the likelihood that the $500 million in savings it expected in the current fiscal year from a debt-refinancing plan may not materialize, because the state continues to challenge the plan in court.
 The mayor will use his budget presentation today to defend his proposal for a $400 property tax rebate for homeowners, according to his aide, who circulated an analysis yesterday that was critical of an alternative tax-cut plan presented by the Council. The aide spoke on the condition of anonymity.
 The analysis by the mayor's office said that the Council plan, which provides a property tax reduction of 2 percent across the board, would benefit large corporations more than homeowners. It said that the average city homeowner would save $52, while the owner of the Empire State Building would save $463,000.
 David K. Chai, a spokesman for Gifford Miller, the Council speaker and a likely Democratic candidate for mayor in 2005, dismissed the analysis and called the mayor's rebate proposal ''a quick-fix Republican tax gimmick.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (68%); DEBT FINANCING (63%); LEAD (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



565 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Bush Talk to Cover Economic Initiatives

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
The White House said Sunday night that President Bush would take a series of steps to promote technological innovation, signaling its intention to keep economic themes front and center in the presidential campaign.
 In an appearance on Monday in Minnesota, Mr. 
Bush intends to announce actions to promote research into hydrogen-fueled cars, access to high-speed broadband communication and the development of electronic databases of patient information.
 The announcement comes as violence in Iraq has focused scrutiny on Mr. Bush's foreign policy, a sensitive issue for his re-election campaign.
 The White House said the president plans to announce that the Energy Department has selected 28 companies, universities and national laboratories to receive $350 million for research into hydrogen vehicles.
 Mr. Bush also intends to set a goal of assuring that within a decade most Americans can keep health records in databases available to doctors and hospitals. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (87%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (87%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); HOSPITALS (85%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); TERRORISM (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); BROADBAND (55%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



566 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: A division of Cadbury Schweppes solicits ideas from smaller agencies on ways to market 7Up.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE soda once sold as the ''uncola'' is making an unexpected, unconventional move that might lead to the undoing of its agency relationship.
 The Dr Pepper/Seven Up Company, the division of Cadbury Schweppes that sells the 7Up soft drink brand in North America, is making preliminary inquiries to at least two smaller agencies, seeking ideas for 7Up advertising from them as well as from the 7Up creative agency of record. Spending for ads for lemon-lime 7Up in major media has recently ranged from $25 million to $45 million a year.
 The 7Up creative assignment has been handled since 1995 by Young & Rubicam Advertising in New York, now part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group. The agency is producing a cheeky campaign aimed at younger consumers that carries the theme ''Make 7Up yours.'' 
 The initiative by Dr Pepper/Seven Up is indicative of the wider net marketers are casting to find ways to more closely connect their brands to consumers who are increasingly uninterested in advertising. Many advertisers have grown unwilling to limit their consideration to the agencies on their rosters, going beyond them to show that they will leave no stone unturned to develop more effective campaigns.
 Advertising executives who were told about the step being taken by Dr Pepper/Seven Up, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, confirmed a report about the inquiries that appeared this week in the trade publication Adweek. A marketing newsletter, The Delaney Report, reported last week that the 7Up account would soon be placed in review.
 Michael Martin, a spokesman for Dr Pepper/Seven Up in Plano, Tex., said yesterday that the term agency review ''should not be used as a label'' for what the company was doing. He was unable, however, to offer a better one.
 While ''we're always looking at creative options'' for 7Up ads, Mr. Martin said, ''we consider this an internal business matter'' and as such could not be discussed more specifically.
 ''If and when we have something to announce related to agencies, we will do that,'' he added.
 The advertising executives, unwilling to wait that long to share their information, listed two smaller agencies with which Dr Pepper/Seven Up has had some preliminary contacts: Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, which creates campaigns for brands like Burger King, Ikea and Mini Cooper; and Cliff Freeman & Partners in New York, which once worked for the Coca-Cola Company.
 Both agencies are, coincidentally, minority owned by MDC Partners, an agency company in Toronto that invests in agencies with reputations for creative flair. Also coincidentally -- or perhaps not -- Young & Rubicam recently lost its Burger King creative assignment to Crispin Porter.
 The effort by Dr Pepper/Seven Up to look beyond its roster agency for creative concepts comes after 7Up's sales and market share fell sharply last year.
 The company is ''looking to stabilize the brand'' after volume in 2003 fell 27.6 percent, to 126.3 million cases from 174.5 million the previous year, said Gary A. Hemphill, senior vice president for the Beverage Marketing Corporation in New York, which offers research and consulting services to the soft drink industry.
 A major culprit for that significant falloff, Mr. Hemphill said, was gathering momentum for Sierra Mist, a lemon-lime brand being sold by the Pepsi-Cola Company division of PepsiCo, particularly as many bottlers dropped 7Up in favor of Sierra Mist. As 7Up fell, Sierra Mist climbed, by 89.3 percent, to 140.2 million cases in 2003 from 74.1 million the year before.
 Sierra Mist -- the fourth attempt at a lemon-lime entry from Pepsi-Cola, which previously tried brands called Teem, Slice and Storm -- also had an effect on the lemon-lime category leader, Sprite, sold by Coca-Cola. According to Mr. Hemphill, Sprite's volume last year fell 5 percent, to 601.4 million cases from 633.1 million in 2002.
 Unsurprisingly, Coca-Cola recently changed campaigns for Sprite, introducing a character with a hip-hop flavor named Miles Thirst that is meant to amplify the longtime Sprite theme, ''Obey your thirst,'' with younger consumers. Interestingly, last July, Coca-Cola solicited proposals for Sprite campaigns from agencies that do not handle the account before deciding a month later to keep working with the Sprite creative agency of record, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, part of WPP.
 Another reason Dr Pepper/7Up might not be satisfied with Young & Rubicam, Mr. Hemphill said, is the arrival there in February of a new marketing executive, Randy Gier, who was named executive vice president for the Cadbury Schweppes Americas Beverages division, overseeing Mott's and Snapple as well as the 7Up and Dr Pepper brands.
 ''He's pretty new,'' Mr. Hemphill said of Mr. Gier, who had been chief marketing officer at the Yum Restaurants International division of Yum Brands, ''and he may be making his presence felt.''
 Young & Rubicam became the 7Up creative agency in July 1995 after the brand was shepherded for a decade by Leo Burnett Worldwide in Chicago, now owned by the Publicis Groupe. One big campaign created by Young & Rubicam, carrying the theme ''Are you an un?,'' was discontinued in summer 1999 after it was deemed unsuccessful at burnishing the 7Up brand image among consumers ages 12 to 24.
 Not long after, ''Are you an un?'' was replaced with ''Make 7Up yours,'' a campaign infused with broad, slapstick humor and double entendres symbolized by the decision to put a provocative pause in the middle of the theme.
 (If Coca-Cola is the pause that refreshes, the parsing of ''Make 7Up yours'' raising eyebrows among critics who complain it is juvenile and tasteless must be the pause that regresses.)
 The ''Make 7Up yours'' campaign has continued since 1999 with initiatives that have included Super Bowl commercials and a switch in spokesmen from the comedian Orlando Jones to the comedian Godfrey. The most recent batch of spots included a commercial shown during Super Bowl XXXVIII in which the spokesman offers $1 million to anyone who can dunk a basketball through a hoop attached to the back of a 7Up truck. The sight-gag punch line: the spokesman drives the truck away as contestants run up to try their luck, wreaking havoc in his wake.
 A far, far cry from the demure 7Up days of ''You like it. It likes you.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (77%); YOUTH MARKET (71%) Soft Drinks; Advertising and Marketing; Account Changes; Soft Drinks

COMPANY: WPP PLC (90%); COCA-COLA CO (84%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (62%); CADBURY LTD (58%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (51%); MDC PARTNERS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Dr Pepper/seven Up Cos; Cadbury Schweppes Plc; Young & Rubicam

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (90%); WPP (LSE) (90%); KO (NYSE) (84%); MDZ.A (TSX) (50%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (90%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (73%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



567 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Could Be Forced To Lower Crop Subsidies
Brazil won a preliminary ruling at the World Trade Organization that could force the United States to lower the subsidies it pays farmers to grow cotton and, eventually, most other subsidized crops.
 The decision puts the Bush administration in a tight bind in an election year when Republicans are counting on support from the farm belt. The largest American farmers have grown dependent on the $19 billion they receive in annual subsidies. [Page A1.]

News on Cancer Drug Lifts Stock
Only two months after winning approval for its highly anticipated cancer drug, Avastin, Genentech said that another of its cancer drugs, Tarceva, had also prolonged lives in a large clinical trial. The announcement, which could pave the way for the drug's approval early next year, sent the shares of Genentech and those of its two development partners up sharply. [C2.]

Questions on Allied Capital Loans
A $9 million transaction at the nation's largest business development company, the Allied Capital Corporation, has raised questions on Wall Street. [C7.]

Kmart Extends Stewart Contract
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia and Kmart have reconciled, ending a lawsuit and reaching a new agreement to sell goods by Ms. Stewart. [C2.]

Ban on Internet Taxes Proceeds
Senators who favor a permanent ban on taxes on the Internet brought the legislation to the Senate floor as President Bush said the ban was critical to increasing the availability of high-speed Internet service. [A20.]

Sales of New Homes Increase
Sales of new homes surged 8.9 percent in March, the largest monthly increase in nine months. [C14.]

Stocks Fall on Rate Worries
Stocks fell on interest rate concerns. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 5.07 points, for its first drop in four days. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13 points, to 2,036.77. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 28.11 points, to 10,444.73. [C14.]

Character Witnesses Testify at Trial
Lawyers for Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston, called several character witnesses at his retrial. [C14.]

Jury selection began in the trial of Tyco International's former general counsel, Mark A. Belnick. [C18.]

Chief of Mitsubishi Resigns
The president and chief executive of Mitsubishi Motors, Rolf Eckrodt, resigned a few days after a decision by DaimlerChrysler to stop supporting its Japanese partner sent the company into a frantic search for new cash. Mr. Eckrodt, 61, a former Daimler executive, decided to quit ''to make way for a new team,'' he said in a statement. [C13.]

New Ideas Sought for 7Up Ads
A division of Cadbury Schweppes is soliciting ideas from smaller agencies on ways to market 7Up. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C12.]

Janus Said to Be Near Settlement
Janus Capital Group is in the final stages of negotiations in a settlement with regulators that could require it to pay more than $200 million over improper trading of mutual funds, according to people briefed on the talks. [C13.]

Hotels Adding More Surcharges
Travelers say hotels are adding fees and being less accommodating about complaints. [C8.]

Flight Attendants: The New Reality
An outpouring of reaction on the attitude and service of flight attendants in a new era of flying. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C9.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,444.73 down 28.11Nasdaq composite -- 2,036.77 down 13.0010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.44 down 0.02The euro -- 1.1864 up 0.0032The dollar -- 108.67 down 0.42Graph tracks share prices of Genentech for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); CANCER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WITNESSES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); APPROVALS (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); JURY TRIALS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNET SALES TAX (70%); NEW HOME SALES (69%); JURY DUTY (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ALLIED CAPITAL CORP (84%); JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (64%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (55%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (52%); CADBURY LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (64%); MSO (NYSE) (55%); TYC (NYSE) (52%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%); 7211 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (52%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



568 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: UnitedHealth Agrees to Deal For Oxford

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
UnitedHealth Group agreed yesterday to acquire Oxford Health Plans for $4.7 billion in stock and cash, giving UnitedHealth, one of the nation's largest health insurers, a greater presence in the New York metropolitan area. 
 Health insurers are consolidating as slow job growth makes it difficult to attract new customers without slashing premiums.
 In the New York region, in particular, the weakness in the economy had analysts anticipating that Oxford would have a harder time attracting new customers. Oxford insures 1.5 million people, mostly in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York. 
 ''We're quite interested in seeing the impact of a rebounding New York economy,'' said William W. McGuire, UnitedHealth's chief executive, in a conference call with analysts yesterday afternoon. 
 Mr. McGuire said in an interview that he expected his company, which currently provides health benefits for more than 20 million people in 50 states, would be able to attract large corporations with headquarters in the New York area and with workers throughout the country. Such companies were largely out of reach for Oxford, he said, which focuses on small to midsize employers.
 UnitedHealth, which is based in Minnetonka, Minn., will offer 0.64 of one of its shares for each Oxford share, plus $16.17 in cash, with the transaction expected to close in the fourth quarter. The price is a 14 percent premium over Oxford's share price at the close of trading on Friday.
 Oxford, based in Trumbull, Conn., has long been considered a takeover target because of its large market share in the New York area. Just last week, talks collapsed between Oxford and WellChoice, the parent of Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield. Analysts had predicted that another bidder would quickly surface. 
 ''This is a big market with lots of opportunity,'' said Charles G. Berg, Oxford's chief executive, in a conference call with analysts yesterday evening to discuss Oxford's first-quarter earnings. 
 Mr. Berg will be the chief executive of the combined company's Northeast region.
 Oxford's shares, up 97 percent in the last 12 months, rose $4.05 yesterday to close at $54.94 a share, after reports of the planned merger with UnitedHealth. The combination was announced after the close of trading.
 The merger is just the latest combination among health insurance companies. Last October, the nation's two largest publicly traded Blue Cross companies, Anthem and WellPoint, announced a $16.4 billion merger.
 ''The economy just isn't adding jobs quickly very quickly,'' said Michael Obuchowski, principal of Altair Investments, which owns UnitedHealth shares. That is leading the larger insurers to try and add customers by making acquisitions, he said.
 UnitedHealth, like Oxford, has been disciplined about not cutting its premiums to attract customers, making acquisitions even more critical to draw new business, said Sheryl Skolnick, an analyst with Fulcrum Global Partners, a research firm.
 ''This is a smart deal for UnitedHealth, and a good deal for Oxford,'' she said, adding that Oxford shareholders ''will get a price they probably never thought they'd see in a hundred years.''
 Oxford has come back from the brink after its stock plummeted 63 percent in one afternoon, on Oct. 27, 1997, after the company said it would report a loss because of billing mistakes and delays in claims processing. Oxford's stock hit a low of $6 the next year. Management then cut costs and shed unprofitable businesses, leading to a rebound in Oxford's profits. 
 Oxford reported first-quarter net income of $86.7 million, or $1.03 a diluted share, up nearly 19 percent from the quarter a year earlier. 
 The previous year's results included a pretax charge of $45 million, or 32 cents a share, to cover the settlement of securities litigation related to the company's 1997 earnings shortfall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); CITIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MERGERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DIVESTITURES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (63%); MARKET SHARE (51%) Medicine and Health; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (91%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (53%); WELLPOINT INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Unitedhealth Group; Oxford Health Plans

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (91%); WLP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%)

PERSON: William W (Dr) Mcguire; Charles G Berg; Riva D Atlas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City Metropolitan Area 

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



569 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 5; On Baseball

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Pumped Up Attendance in the Majors

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
THE fans are really showing them, those baseball players and club owners. You don't want to do everything you can to rid the game of steroids? Well, we'll show you. Not only won't we stop buying tickets and start boycotting your games, but we'll also buy tickets in record numbers and show up in record crowds.
 Contrary to those who predicted the game would suffer because of the negative publicity generated by steroid use, Major League Baseball is attracting fans as never before. 
 ''We're off to a remarkable start,'' a highly pleased Commissioner Bud Selig said.
 Selig had reason to be doubly pleased yesterday. While he scrutinized sizable attendance figures, his people and union officials completed an agreement on Olympics-style drug testing that will enable plans for a World Cup of baseball to go forward. 
 As many as 16 teams -- although not all of them would be on the competitive level of the United States, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic and Cuba -- could play for the Cup in March if the logistics can be worked out in the relatively short time available for planning such a mammoth event. 
 It should be pointed out that the World Cup agreement does not mean the union will capitulate and agree to an Olympics-style testing program for steroids for all major league baseball. The union wanted a World Cup and did what it had to do to make it a reality. It already has a steroids testing program in the current collective bargaining agreement and, at the most, will amend it only slightly. 
 Rob Manfred, baseball's No. 1 labor executive, persuaded the union to accept testing for a World Cup because playing in the event will be voluntary. If a player wants to use steroids, he can avoid more stringent testing by not playing on a World Cup team. Major leaguers don't have that choice in their everyday jobs.
 But they are apparently doing those jobs so well that they have persuaded the fans to come and watch them play. Who knows what might be in fans' minds when they go to the ballparks, but they are going. 
 Through the first three weeks of the season, attendance was up 14.4 percent over the corresponding period last season. A week ago, after the first two weeks, the increase was 15.1 percent, and the average attendance was the highest for that period.
 The three-week average of 29,718 for 275 dates exceeded last season's average of 25,971 and has been exceeded (since baseball began compiling attendance figures in 1980) only by the 1994 average of 29,752. The 1994 attendance for the same number of games was only 9,359 more than this season's total.
 This is 10 years later, and baseball has appeared to have made a significant recovery from the events that occurred later that season -- the players' strike that ended that season prematurely and delayed the start of the 1995 season. Contrary to any cries of doom, baseball has demonstrated its resilience and the country's love for the game, steroids notwithstanding.
 And fans did not wait for the season to begin to demonstrate their affection. They bought more tickets before the season than ever before. Tickets especially went quickly at Fenway Park in Boston and at Wrigley Field in Chicago. Fans in those cities evidently remained excited by their teams' scintillating flirtation with the World Series in 2003 rather than being turned off by their collapse when they were on the brink of getting there.
 The Red Sox and the Cubs are virtually sold out for the season and are drawing record crowds. If the crowds keep going as they have the first three weeks, the Red Sox will shatter their season attendance record of 2.72 million with a total of 2.83 million and the Cubs will draw 3.20 million, breaking their record of 2.81 million. 
 The Yankees, who until 1999 never drew more than three million people in a season, would reach a club record 3.95 million this season if they maintain their eight-date average of 48,762 
 Yes, the Yankees and the Red Sox both have benefited from their two early-season series, but they have played each other early in other seasons and have not attracted such crowds.
 The Cubs, who have drawn an average crowd of 39,490 compared with 31,395 for the same number of games a year ago, are benefiting from the attendance increase that teams have historically experienced the season after a good season on the field.
 That is a fact of baseball's economy that H. Wayne Huizenga, owner of the 1997 World Series champion Florida Marlins, either didn't know or ignored when he dismantled his team before it could compete in 1998. This season the Marlins, champions again under a different owner, Jeffrey Loria, averaged 31,411 for their first nine home games, compared with 16,862 last year and 22,821 in 1998. 
 The average attendance for both leagues is up, and 22 of the 30 teams have gained in attendance: 12 of the American League's 14 teams and 10 of the National's 16. Maybe the tip-off on the attendance increase is the average crowds that have watched the perennial last-place Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Their attendance has risen from an average of 15,049, last in the A.L. a year ago, to 25,839, which is eighth in the league.
 No wonder Selig is optimistic about the season's attendance.
 ''I'll predict we'll set an attendance record, given what I've seen in preseason sales and what I've seen in April, which is generally a horrible month,'' he said. ''I feel good about a lot of cities.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fans seem to care about Barry Bonds, but not about steroids. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STEROIDS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); DRUG TESTING (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



570 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Rise Notably In Most Regions

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes surged 8.9 percent in March, the Commerce Department reported on Monday. It was the largest monthly increase in nine months.
 The increase pushed sales of new single-family houses to a record seasonally adjusted annual pace of 1.228 million last month, up from 1.128 million in February. The monthly rise was the highest since June 2003. 
 By region, new-home sales soared 19.3 percent in the South, reaching a record annual pace of 613,000. But in the Northeast, sales fell sharply, down 24.3 percent to a pace of 78,000. The West posted an increase of 5.1 percent, to 349,000, and in the Midwest, sales rose 5 percent, to a pace of 188,000.
 Michael Carliner, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders, said the drop in sales in the Northeast did not reflect the rising real estate market in the region. Sales were brisk the previous two months, he noted, adding that builders could not keep up with demand and that land remained scarce. 
 Nationwide, the median sales price of a new home in March dropped to $201,400, from a revised $210,000 in February. 
 Low mortgage interest rates continued to support the strong home sales last month, with 30-year fixed-rate mortgages falling to 5.38 percent in the week ended March 18.
 Some buyers are scrambling to take advantage of such low rates. Signs that the economy may be gaining momentum have pushed up bond yields, causing long-term mortgage rates also to rise. The rates on 30-year mortgages have increased for five consecutive weeks, climbing last week to the highest level this year -- an average of 5.94 percent, according to the mortgage reseller Freddie Mac.
 Mr. Carliner said that rising rates would probably not slow new-home sales for a couple of months. After that, he said, the job market should improve enough to keep sales strong.
 The National Association of Realtors will report on sales of existing homes on Tuesday. Economists expect a slight increase. 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''New-Home Sales''Annual pace in thousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.Mar.: +8.9%Feb.: -1.1Jan.: +1.2Graph tracks sales of homes from October 2002 through March 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Prices of New Homes''Median price for new homes in thousands of dollars.Mar.: -4.1%Feb.: +3.7Jan.: +3.3Graph tracks median prices of homes from October 2002 through March 2004.(Source by Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); BONDS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) Housing; Sales; Records and Achievements; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



571 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Zones for Business Tax Breaks Are Debated Along Party Lines

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 26 

 BODY:
With three months left before one of the state's main economic development programs is to expire if it is not renewed by the Legislature, Democratic lawmakers charged on Monday that the program had become an unaccountable dispenser of corporate welfare. 
 But Charles A. Gargano, who as chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation oversees the program, said at a hearing that ''misinformed skeptics'' had been circulating ''erroneous information'' about the program of Empire Zones, special districts created to spur economic growth. He said this had hampered local officials' ability to attract new jobs and investment.
 And Mr. Gargano released data for the first time showing that in 2002, the last year for which figures are available, the state gave out tax breaks worth roughly $300 million to businesses located in Empire Zones. Those businesses created 4,000 new jobs that year, Mr. Gargano reported. That means that each job cost $75,000 in tax breaks. The average salary for the new jobs was $30,000. 
 Mr. Gargano said it was too simplistic to look just at the number of jobs created and the value of the tax breaks in a given year. He said he had measured the return on the tax breaks by counting all the jobs located within the zones. By his calculations, there were 257,000 people working for the companies that received tax breaks in the zones, so cost of the tax break comes to $1,170 per job. 
 One critic of the program, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, charged that the program was in ''chaos'' and that Mr. Gargano has failed in his duties as a gatekeeper.
 ''We have what appears to be a good idea turned into a bad program,'' Mr. Brodsky said.
 The state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat, testified later that his own audit of the program had found no information to suggest that it was a success and that it operated with insufficient oversight.
 ''This is the sixth audit of the program conducted by the comptroller's office and I am the third state comptroller to point out flaws in oversight,'' Mr. Hevesi said.
 Gov. George E. Pataki, who appointed Mr. Gargano, defended the program yesterday, calling it ''the best program in America.'' 
 The hearing was held to re-evaluate the program as it faces a deadline for renewal at the end of July. Many officials in Albany, including Mr. Pataki, have said some reforms are necessary. The question is what shape the reforms will take. At the heart of the disagreements about the program are questions about whether companies have delivered enough to the state, in terms of new jobs and capital investment, to justify lucrative tax breaks. 
 Mr. Brodsky and other Democrats also feel that there is not enough oversight of the businesses, that Mr. Gargano is unwilling to take away benefits from companies that fail to produce jobs, and that the program has drifted away from its core purpose -- to help blighted areas. 
 In recent years, though, its mandate has been reinterpreted to encompass economic development more broadly, and Empire Zones have been created in wealthier, increasingly suburban areas. There are currently 72 zones across the state, and many companies operate virtually tax-free within them. The zones are popular among politicians who want to show that they can deliver for their districts.
 During his testimony, Mr. Gargano noted that between 2000 and 2002, businesses in Empire Zones reported a 9 percent growth in jobs, outpacing the national average. 
 Before the hearing, representatives of 11 counties that do not have Empire Zones held a news conference to say they should be included in the program. These counties include Nassau and Putnam in the New York City suburbs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



572 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8; BUSINESS TRAVEL

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Hotels, Again Profitable, Are Adding Surcharges

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The brochure of the Comfort Inn Oceanfront in Miami Beach, is awash in caveats about extra charges: a daily parking fee of $9.50, a pet surcharge of $25 a stay and $10 a night, a visitor parking fee of $6 for every four hours. But there is no mention of a $1.50-a-night fee for a safe in the room, payable whether you use it or not.
 Andy McGehee did not. And when Mr. McGehee, a nuclear engineer from North Augusta, S.C., who stayed at the hotel recently, was told about the charge at check-in, he protested. The desk clerk was unmoved.
 ''They told me I didn't have a choice,'' Mr. McGehee said. He said he let the matter drop because he did not think it was worth complaining to higher-ups about such a small amount. Getting nickeled and dimed on the road, especially at hotels, is nothing new. But with the economy rebounding and occupancy rates up, something else is -- the hotels' attitude toward unhappy guests. 
 For years, corporate travelers like Mr. McGehee had little trouble talking their way out of the fees and surcharges slipped onto their bills, especially if they complained that disclosure of them was inadequate. Hotel managers, wary of offending their high-revenue customers, routinely deleted the extras.
 Now, they are not nearly so accommodating. With the lodging industry swinging back to profitability and determined to stay there, more front-desk agents are being instructed to adopt a ''take it or leave it'' attitude toward those who balk at paying the extras, said Bobby Bowers, a lodging analyst at Smith Travel Research in Nashville. ''As the hotel industry improves, the surcharges are starting to stick,'' he said.
 All the various fees taken together -- for services like Internet connections, making outside calls, cleaning services and parking -- probably add up to only about 1 percent of hotels' revenue, experts said. But in an industry that has been losing money and that even in good years often reports razor-thin profit margins, every penny counts.
 For frequent business travelers, the hardest pill to swallow has always been fees for services they do not use, like beach towels or pool maintenance. Now that hotels are refusing to waive these charges, the bills are rising, and so is customer blood pressure.
 Managers and employees at properties like the Comfort Inn acknowledge that they have become more reluctant to remove fees from bills but say they have also stepped up efforts to disclose them in advance. ''Our notification of the fees, including the fee for the in-room safe, is extensive,'' said Rod Delafuente, the hotel's general manager. ''If you book a room through a travel agent, you're told about them. If you book a room online, you're told about them. When you check in, we tell you about them.''
 Mr. Delafuente said he was still willing to consider letting a guest off the hook, ''but that's something I do on a case-by-case basis.''
 The cases are becoming less common in the hotel business, said Bjorn Hanson, a lodging analyst at PricewaterhouseCoopers who has conducted extensive research on hotel surcharges. ''Hotels have done a lot of experimentation to find out which ones are less likely to receive an unfavorable reaction from guests,'' he said. ''Employees are also being trained to handle guests who object to the fees. They're being scripted in how to say no.''
 Most of all, Mr. Hanson said, there is a feeling that better times are ahead for the hotel business, so there seems less to lose from offending a few guests with a fee.
 Consider Mary Brown's experience at the Riviera Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, where she recently attended a conference. When she checked out, she discovered an energy surcharge of $3.81 a night, which she said no one had warned her about when she reserved the room. ''When I asked about it, I was told it was because of the high costs of air-conditioning,'' she said. ''It was October.''
 Mark Talarico, a front-desk manager at the hotel, said it assessed the surcharge to offset the increasing cost of energy. 
 The Riviera's Web site discloses the fee when an online reservation is made, citing the reason as an ''unexpected spike in Nevada energy prices.'' But the Edison Electric Institute, a trade industry association, said commercial energy prices in Nevada have increased only modestly, rising to 9.47 cents a kilowatt-hour last year from 9.03 cents in 2002.
 ''I protested, but they told me, 'too bad,''' Ms. Brown said. ''It just blew me away.''
 Hotel workers agree that they are less likely to waive surcharges for business travelers. And they say they are being ordered to get especially tough with ''unmanaged'' business travelers who do not qualify for a negotiated corporate rate with the hotel.
 ''When a guest questions a fee, and I have to go to a manager, the first question I get is, 'What's the corporate rate?''' said Linnet Caban, a guest-service agent for a boutique hotel in New York. ''If they don't have the corporate rate, they're much less likely to take the charge off.''
 To persuade customers to pay, agents are also being trained to call a guest's bluff when they say they have been saddled with an undeserved charge. At Ms. Caban's hotel, for example, phone calls are marked up 100 percent, and high-speed Internet connections cost $10 a day. If a guest complains about being billed for calls that were not made or an Internet connection that did not go through, hotel employees are told to consult a telephone log and, if necessary, share the information with the guest.
 Ms. Caban said she also makes a point that disclosure of the fees is ubiquitous. ''You can't avoid it,'' she said. ''It's on the phone and the key packet and in the guest services directory. It's everywhere.'' 
 If not, customers may revolt, as they have before. In 2002, several hotel chains settled a class-action lawsuit over inadequate disclosure of energy surcharges and agreed to issue discount coupons to anyone who had paid them. And this month, a class-action suit was filed against Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide, contending that guests had not been properly informed of resort fees or that the fees had sometimes been misrepresented as taxes.
 Even when a surcharge is an obvious mistake, hotels sometimes hesitate before removing it. Leonard Kaplan's bill at the Renaissance Harborplace Hotel in Baltimore included a mysterious ''Internet movie'' surcharge, even though Mr. Kaplan, a computer trainer from Longwood, Fla., watched television only briefly while he stayed at the hotel. But he noticed the error on his bill only after he returned from his trip.
 ''I think most business travelers would have said, 'It's only $10.99, let's just pay it and be done with it,''' said his wife, Natalie Kaplan, who accompanied him on the trip. ''But I thought it was ridiculous.''
 She called the hotel and had to take her case to a manager before the fee was erased. ''Why should I have to ask them to remove something that shouldn't have been there in the first place?'' she wondered.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andy McGehee had to pay $1.50 a day at a Miami Beach hotel for a room safe that he did not use. (Photo by Bruce L. Flashnick/Associated Press, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LODGING (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%) Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Chris Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



573 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: The Half-Revolution

BYLINE: By Zakes Mda. 
Zakes Mda is the author, most recently, of ''The Madonna of Excelsior,'' a novel.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
South Africa is an ailing country. No, not the economy. On the contrary, the economy has been quite buoyant. Since the official end of apartheid 10 years ago today, the country has moved from a siege mode economy to a dynamic and sophisticated one. For the first time in its history South Africa has become a serious player on the global economic stage. Before 1994 the only meaningful role that South Africa had was in mining. The demise of apartheid ushered in a new era of diversification in which South African companies became multinational -- listed on the London and the New York Stock Exchanges (not a good thing, the trade union movement has argued in South Africa, but that is a debate for another time) -- and are generally doing well. 
 In Europe, South African corporations like Sappi dominate paper manufacturing; in Britain financial and insurance institutions from South Africa perform quite decently in competition with British corporations; in the United States, South African Breweries bought Miller Brewing Company to become SABMiller -- making it the second-largest brewery in the world. When Americans drink Miller High Life or Miller Lite, South Africans say ''cheers'' all the way to the bank. 
 There are many other indicators that tell us that contrary to prophecies of doom, the South African miracle continues, quietly this time, without the glare of world publicity that accompanied what can now be termed the first miracle: the relatively peaceful transfer of power from a white minority to a black-dominated government. The second miracle manifests itself in the rand's appreciation against major currencies of the world to a three-year high; in an inflation rate that has dropped to its lowest level in 44 years; in an export market in which cars manufactured in South Africa dominate the world's right-hand-drive market; and in the South African corporations that have displaced their European and American counterparts as the top investors in Africa.
 Even the leaders of the erstwhile apartheid state have acknowledged these successes. F. W. de Klerk, the last white president, recently said in Die Burgher, an Afrikaans newspaper, that despite its flaws post-apartheid South Africa was a much better place than the South Africa of the past. Most of these strides have been made in the last five years, during Thabo Mbeki's presidency. There is certainly more to his presidency than his unorthodox views on AIDS and his high tolerance (some will even say support) of a stinking albatross that hangs around South Africa's neck, which goes under the name of Robert Gabriel Mugabe. Though these two issues seem to define Mr. Mbeki's presidency in the imagination of the West, inside the country he is viewed by influential blacks as one who has put content in reconciliation by marrying what were previously empty slogans with social change.
 No, South Africa is ailing because it suffers from the twin diseases of instant gratification and conspicuous consumption. Call me naive, but I see these diseases playing a large role in the spiraling unemployment rate (despite the buoyant economy); in the AIDS pandemic, which seems to be unmanageable; in the high crime rate; and in the looming unrest of the black majority, who have seen little or no benefits of the bullish South Africa trickling down to them. 
 A new black elite has emerged in South Africa, mostly from the ranks of the liberation movement -- people who were able to use their political pedigree and connections to amass vast amounts of wealth. Trade union leaders have become instant millionaires, setting up business consortia in the name of union members but then reaping all the financial benefits at the expense of the workers. Black empowerment, a kind of affirmative action in which equity in big business is transferred to black entrepreneurs, has not done anything to alleviate poverty among ordinary black South Africans. It has not created employment either. Instead, workers have been laid off by the new black bosses in an effort to maximize profits in order to repay white capital that was used to purchase the equity in the first place. Even the president's brother, Moeletsi Mbeki, a member of the business elite himself, has lamented that black empowerment has focused more on transferring equity than on encouraging entrepreneurship and has thus created a culture of entitlement and dependency in the black middle class. 
 In the true fashion of the nouveaux riches there are crass displays of wealth in Johannesburg and other big cities here. A person's worth is measured by the car he or she drives and by the suburb he or she lives in. The roads are clogged with top of the line German and British sedans -- which are, by the way, manufactured in South Africa under license. In Johannesburg it is very rare to see a car as old as the ones I see on the roads of the small Midwest city of Athens, where I teach at Ohio University part of the year. 
 The new black elite feel that they are entitled to unbridled wealth because for decades wealth has been the sole preserve of whites who had set up effective affirmative action programs for themselves. The tendency then is to find the shortest route to a Jaguar and a mansion in Sandton. There is no time or inclination to drudge for years in order to attain these luxuries. South Africans want it all and they want it now. 
 As a result the government has had great problems in retaining some of its best people in Parliament and in the civil service. They always resign for better spoils in the private sector. This in turn results in the deterioration of government services. But even more seriously it results in excessive salaries for civil service and other government managers, which in turn results in the draining of funds that could be used in the alleviation of poverty. 
 Recently we have seen respected heroes of the liberation struggle succumb to the temptation of instant gratification and conspicuous consumption. In order to maintain their high-profile life they have resorted to corrupt means of accumulating wealth. Fortunately, in contrast to the Mandela era, when there was a lack of political will to take action against corrupt comrades (Nelson Mandela was fiercely loyal and would publicly declare party members to be men or women of integrity even before he examined evidence of their crimes), the anti-corruption structures that have been established today by the government itself seem to be triumphing. A respected freedom fighter like Tony Yengeni, a parliamentary chief whip of the ruling party, has lost his job for buying a luxury car at a great discount from a company that was bidding for a contract to supply arms to the state. Even the deputy president, Jacob Zuma, is under a cloud. Allegations of corruption have been made against him and he is under investigation. No one is sacrosanct. 
 All these efforts notwithstanding, corruption continues and is exposed every day by the news media. So is common crime like highway robberies and carjackings. All these are not crimes of poverty. They are crimes of greed -- of conspicuous consumption and instant gratification. Drug syndicate bosses and crime bosses who specialize in robbing armored vehicles on the highways of South Africa are not hungry people. They are multimillionaires.
 While the national elite stuff themselves in these public displays, one can already hear rumblings from the youths in the ghettoes who feel left out. Toni Morrison once said, ''Every society as it moves forward is fearful of the ones it leaves behind.'' A well-placed section of South African society is moving forward at a breathtaking speed. Unfortunately, it is too oblivious of those it leaves behind to be fearful of them.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sam Weber) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THIS DAY IN HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); INFLATION (73%); PAPER MILLS (73%); PAPER MFG (73%); BREWERIES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); POLITICS (64%); TRENDS (63%); ETHICS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Social Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Entrepreneurship; Children and Youth; Blacks

COMPANY: MILLER BREWING CO (82%); SABMILLER PLC (69%)

TICKER: SOSAB (JSE) (69%); SAB (LSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (82%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (82%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (58%) Zakes Mda

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%) South Africa; South Africa

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



574 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Psst! Is Powell Bound for the World Bank?

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
Forget the official pronouncements that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is staying put at the State Department.
 The buzz in the capital is at least a couple of steps beyond that, as people in business and finance circles here are speculating that he could become the next president of the World Bank, the largest and most influential development agency in the world. 
 The whispers only grew louder the other night after Mr. Powell dined with James D. Wolfensohn, the current bank head, at his home in the Kalorama section of Washington. 
 Over Arctic char, Mr. Powell joined Mr. Wolfensohn and a handful of other guests, including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, to toast Horst Kohler, the former head of the International Monetary Fund who resigned last month to run for president of Germany.
 ''It was basically a family dinner,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said. ''Colin Powell came as a friend, not a member of the administration.''
 Dinner guests said that not a word was uttered about whether Mr. Wolfensohn would stay on for an unusual third term or pass the baton to his good friend Mr. Powell.
 ''I don't think there's the slightest likelihood that Colin Powell would want to become president of the World Bank after putting up with everything he's put up with as secretary of state,'' Mr. Wolfensohn said in an interview.
 Maybe so. But it could be that Mr. Wolfensohn has yet to proclaim himself on his way out.
 To others, however, the World Bank job would seem an obvious landing spot for Mr. Powell. After all, he would be running the show, not jockeying for position in a war cabinet where his views are often in the minority. 
 Richard Boucher, spokesman for the secretary of state, said that his boss was not ''looking for the job nor has he been asked to take it.''
 Yet the rumors persist, if only because many World Bank officials say they would love to have him as the next president should Mr. Wolfensohn leave. He has the reputation of a good manager who can lift morale. And his life story has made him popular around the world.
 ''Who better to represent the bank than Colin Powell?'' said a senior bank official who insisted on not being identified.
 The speculation about Mr. Powell increased after the publication of Bob Woodward's book, ''Plan of Attack.'' Mr. Woodward's portrait of the secretary of state as dissenting from the hawks in the Bush war cabinet seemed to confirm what many believed inevitable, that Mr. Powell will not remain as secretary in a second Bush administration.
 To those pressing for Mr. Powell to make the move, what better position than as spokesman for the world's poor? He served as chairman of America's Promise, a charity aimed at helping children at risk.
 While his policy speeches are replete with praise for the Iraq war and Mr. Bush's more muscular initiatives, Mr. Powell never fails to list as major accomplishments the administration's contributions to the fight against AIDS and world poverty -- all items on the bank's agenda.
 By tradition, the president of the United States gets to decide the head of the World Bank. Should Mr. Bush win re-election, he could pick Mr. Powell as the first black to head the organization.
 The administration denied that Mr. Powell or anyone else is at the head of a list of candidates for a position that will not be open until June 2005.
 ''It's premature and wouldn't be fair to anyone to throw names out there,'' said Tony Fratto, deputy assistant secretary for public affairs at the Treasury Department, which the White House has charged with coming up with a slate of candidates.
 To be fair, Mr. Powell was not the only prospect gossiped about in the corridors this weekend at the annual spring meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. One name was Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Before he was elected mayor of New York, he told friends he would like to be secretary general of the United Nations or president of the World Bank.
 Less glamorous names being bandied about were John Taylor, a top-ranking official at the Treasury Department; Peter McPherson, the president of Michigan State University, who headed the first team sent to Iraq to revitalize the economy; and Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative.
 Of course, there is the distinct possibility that no one will be succeeding the popular Mr. Wolfensohn, who could be reappointed. So far he has refused to say whether he would accept a third five-year term.
 ''I'd rather not be in the position of acting as a lame duck or a pretender,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Colin L. Powell dined recently in Washington with James D. Wolfensohn, the current president of the World Bank, and suddenly the rumor mill has switched into high gear. So far, though, it is only a rumor. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 The agenda of the World Bank is to help the world's poor, like this family in Soweto, South Africa. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%) Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%) World Bank

PERSON: HORST KOHLER (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%) Colin L (Sec) Powell; James D Wolfensohn; Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



575 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Shares Off as Home Sales Data Stir Interest Rate Worries

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday after a report on new-home sales added to speculation that the Federal Reserve might increase interest rates because of an improving economy.
 Computer-related stocks led the decline, including Microsoft, which on Friday had its biggest rally in almost two years after reporting higher-than-forecast sales. More than three-fourths of the members of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index that have posted quarterly results have beaten analysts' estimates.
 The Standard & Poor's 500 shed 5.07 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,135.53, for its first drop in four days. The Nasdaq composite index fell 13 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,036.77. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 28.11, or 0.3 percent, to 10,444.73, erasing its gain for the year. 
 Nine stocks fell for every five that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.3 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 12 percent below the average for the last three months.
 Microsoft, whose shares climbed 6.1 percent on Friday, shed 30 cents, to $27.24. Intel, the world's biggest semiconductor maker, lost 38 cents, to $27.15. An index of the computer-related shares in the S.&P. 500 lost 1.2 percent, the biggest drop among the benchmark's 10 industry groups.
 The S. &P. 500, which rallied 26 percent last year, has fallen 1.9 percent since reaching a 23-month high on Feb. 11. Since then, more than half of the companies in the index have posted quarterly results and 77 percent of them beat the average analyst estimate, according to a Thomson Financial survey.
 The Commerce Department said yesterday that sales of new homes rose to a record annual rate of 1.228 million in March, exceeding forecasts, as cheap financing and an improving job market prompted Americans to invest in real estate.
 Better-than-expected economic reports this month have sent interest rates higher in the bond market and have fueled concern the Fed may soon raise borrowing costs. The economy added 308,000 jobs in March, the most in almost four years, a report showed on April 2. That was followed by higher-than-forecast readings on retail sales, consumer prices and durable goods orders.
 A report Thursday will show the economy expanded at a 5 percent annual rate in the first quarter, according to the median estimate of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The economy will expand 4.6 percent this year, the most since 1984, according to the survey.
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest retailer, lost 83 cents, to $58.14, and contributed the most to the drop in the S&P 500. April sales at its American stores are rising near the low end of its forecast for a gain of as little as 4 percent, Wal-Mart said.
 Humana, the biggest manager of health plans for the United States military, lost $1.30, to $17.71. The 6.8 percent drop was the steepest in the S. &P. 500. First-quarter medical expenses, which are slowing for most of Humana's competitors, rose to 84.4 cents of every premium dollar, from 83.4 cents a year earlier. 
 Among gainers, Genentech, the biotechnology company, jumped $13.77, to $131.99, a record, and OSI Pharmaceuticals more than doubled, surging $52.96, to $91.10. Genentech and its partners, OSI and Roche Holding, said their experimental cancer treatment Tarceva prolonged the lives of lung-cancer patients who no longer responded to other treatments in clinical trials.
 Boeing, the world's second-biggest maker of commercial aircraft, climbed 79 cents, to $43.24. The 1.9 percent gain was the largest in the Dow. All Nippon Airways placed a $6 billion order for 7E7 planes, allowing Boeing to commit itself to build its first new model in more than a decade.
 Treasury prices were mostly higher yesterday. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 4/32 to 96 18/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 4.44 percent, compared with 4.46 on Friday. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.755	99.411	High Rate	0.970	1.165	Investment Rate	0.985	1.188	Low Rate	0.950	1.140	Median Rate	0.960	1.155	Total applied for	$39,807,087	$34,731,004	Accepted	$23,524,868	$19,315,202	Noncompetitive	$1,355,686	$891,677	

Both issues are dated April 29, 2004. The three-month bills mature on July 29, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 28, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''3-Month Treasury Bills''High rate at weekly auction.Graph tracks bills since December.(Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); BOND MARKETS (67%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (80%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%); INTEL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (80%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (80%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



576 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Princeton: A Curb On Grade Inflation

BYLINE: By Karen W. Arenson (NYT); Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
The Princeton faculty approved a plan yesterday to reduce the number of A's, including A-pluses and A-minuses, from almost 50 percent of all grades to 35 percent, the level in the late 1980's and early 1990's. The vote, after 90 minutes of discussion, was 156 to 84, according to the university's Web site. Nancy Weiss Malkiel, dean of the undergraduate college, called the vote a ''strong affirmation'' and said the focus now would be on implementing the plan and being sensitive to concerns raised by both faculty and students. Some critics had charged that Princeton students would be at a disadvantage in the job market and in graduate schools if Princeton gave fewer A's than other colleges. But Dr. Malkiel said that graduate school directors and employers had applauded the move, saying it would help them distinguish the students' abilities. Karen W. Arenson (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); APPROVALS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



577 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: New Pew Trusts Merging Works Into One Body

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
As part of the metamorphosis from private foundation to public charity, the Pew Charitable Trusts are pulling their major polling, research and information projects into a single organization to save on administrative costs.
 Last November, the directors of the trusts, together one of the nation's 10 largest foundations, decided to become a public charity, giving it more flexibility to raise money, lobby and contribute to other organizations, as well as tax advantages.
 Another benefit is that Pew, based in Philadelphia, can combine programs under one roof, rather than pay other groups to run them. Pew is to announce today that it will centralize the operations of seven programs: the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, the Project for Excellence in Journalism, Stateline.org, the Pew Internet and American Life Project, the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, the Pew Hispanic Center and the Pew Global Attitudes Project. 
 ''This would not have been possible for us under the old structure, and it shows how the whole is going to be much bigger than the sum of its parts,'' said Rebecca W. Rimel, president and chief executive. Pew controls $4.1 billion in assets.
 Ms. Rimel said she estimated that Pew would spend $15 million a year on the Pew Research Center, as the consolidated programs will be known, resulting in eventual savings of about $1 million annually. 
 ''There will be some economic benefits, but most importantly, when you get so many smart people together in one location under one roof, it will spur good ideas,'' said Andrew Kohut, the director of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, who will become president of the new research center.
 Pew's transition has attracted a great deal of attention in philanthropic circles. While many tax lawyers contend that it would be hard for other foundations to follow in Pew's footsteps, they also report that many have contacted them seeking ways of making similar conversions.
 ''Pew was established by its founders as a grant-making foundation,'' said Neal B. Freeman, chairman of the Foundation Management Institute, an advisory firm and a critic of Pew's transformation. ''If successor management can now throw a tax-regulation switch and become the world's most heavily endowed think tank keeping all the donors' money for their own projects, it could prove to be an interesting temptation to others.''
 Drummond Pike, president of the Tides Center, a nonprofit based in San Francisco and western Pennsylvania that acts as an intermediary between foundations and the charities they support, said the loss of Pew income would have an impact on his organization, although not a significant one. Tides provided bookkeeping, personnel and other services for three of the seven Pew projects involved in the consolidation, for which it retained 6 percent of the total grants that Pew funneled through it. Mr. Pike estimated that those grants were about $6 million a year.
 Mr. Pike said he was interested to see how Pew would manage the strong personalities who run its programs and handle the responsibilities that come with raising money. ''I will be curious to watch how they learn the business of being accountable to other grant makers,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (94%); CHARITIES (92%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); TAX LAW (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); RELIGION (68%); LAWYERS (61%) Philanthropy; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Taxation; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: Pew Charitable Trusts

PERSON: Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



578 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Plan Addresses Lenders' Profits On Student Aid

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
House Republicans say they will propose legislation requiring lenders that handle student loans to hand over excessive profits to the government, part of what they describe as an overhaul of the nation's financial aid system aimed at redirecting billions of dollars. 
 Under current law, banks, colleges and others that lend money to students are guaranteed steady income through the federal loan programs. Whenever student interest rates, which are set annually, run below market rates, the federal government makes up the difference, paying lenders a subsidy to maintain their profit margins. 
 But when the reverse is true and students pay more than the market rate, lenders keep any additional profit. House Republicans say that the formula is unfair and that it provides excessive subsidies to lenders. 
 Instead, they say, the extra money should be returned to the federal government and put toward programs that make college more affordable for low- and middle-income students. 
 The proposal, which could come as early as this week from John A. Boehner of Ohio, the chairman of the House Education Committee, and other committee members, would also close what Republicans describe as loopholes that let companies collect unusually high government subsidies. These rules allow companies to earn as much as 9.5 percent on certain loans, almost three times the standard rate on federal Stafford loans, a common loan program, and cost taxpayers millions each year, Republicans say. 
 Lenders declined to comment on the proposal, saying they had not seen it. The effect on their bottom lines could vary widely, because some lenders say the extra income may represent only a small part of one student loan company's profits yet a substantial part of another's. 
 The proposal has some support among Democrats, who have raised the prospect of returning extra profits to the government in the past. The campaign of John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee for president, has also taken issue with the rules, saying that changing them could save $2 billion. 
 Still, contentious issues remain, and the Republican proposals come in the midst of a debate over reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. 
 House Republicans are also proposing to alter the rules surrounding the consolidation of student loans. Currently, college graduates can bundle their loans and lock in low, fixed interest rates for years, with the government making up the difference when market rates rise. 
 So many graduates have chosen that option that the cost of running the program rose from $650 million in the 2002 fiscal year to $2.1 billion in the 2003 fiscal year, according to the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress. 
 Republican have proposed eliminating fixed rates in favor of variable ones, a switch that would require graduates to make thousands of dollars more in interest payments that are subsidized now by the government. 
 Several Democrats support the plan, but others are strongly opposed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%) Colleges and Universities; Law and Legislation; Credit; Student Loans; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (59%) Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



579 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: STRATEGY

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Change in Najaf, Preparing to Force It in Falluja

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER; Edward Wong contributed reporting from Baghdad for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
When American commanders on the outskirts of Najaf and Falluja peer into the two troubled Iraqi cities, they see very different problems. Each place has its own culture, each harbors a different enemy, and each offers its own potential allies to help calm a volatile situation.
 Those differences help explain why the American military appears to be taking a softer line in Najaf than in Falluja, where the threat of an outright assault is never more than a day or two away.
 Najaf is home to the Shrine of Ali, one of the most sacred pilgrimage sites for Shiite Muslims. Moktada al-Sadr, the leader of the rebellious Mahdi Army militia, remains entrenched there. But American military officials have stopped proclaiming that they will capture or kill him, despite the fact that his fighters continue to confront occupying forces there and in a slum of Baghdad. 
 Senior Pentagon and military officials said Monday that they had no intention of sending American forces into the center of Najaf, near the holy sites. Even though officials said Mr. Sadr's militia must immediately stop stockpiling weapons in shrines and mosques there, they seem to have accepted that any attack could inspire riotous demonstrations throughout the Shiite world.
 That stance contrasts starkly to the one adopted by American commanders at Falluja, a bastion of Sunni support for Saddam Hussein west of Baghdad where marines are poised for an offensive against entrenched urban guerrillas should no political solution be reached. There, the marines on Monday blasted away the minaret of a mosque being used as a sniper nest by insurgents.
 Brig. Gen. Mark P. Hertling, an assistant commander of the Army's First Armored Division, which has forces outside Najaf, said late Monday that senior officers had no intention of moving into the city center.
 General Hertling said American troops had moved from Baghdad to bases near Najaf to bring a muscular military presence to the area and to guard the work of the civilian occupation authority there. ''We have not and do not foresee conducting military operations within the holy city,'' he said in a telephone interview.
 Pentagon officials, of course, say that no options can be ruled out should the situation in Najaf flare out of control at Mr. Sadr's bidding. But the strategy to isolate and marginalize the cleric is specifically intended to sap his strength.
 ''Sadr gains his power by confronting the United States,'' one senior Pentagon official said Monday. ''We do not intend to let him grow in power. We will deny him the opportunity to confront us.''
 While American forces are isolating Mr. Sadr in Najaf, they are looking to mainstream Shiite clerics and political parties to marginalize him. These local leaders have their own reasons to eliminate Mr. Sadr as a rival for the majority Shiite vote in the new Iraqi government, although they must be careful not to appear to be working on behalf of the widely unpopular American occupation.
 In contrast, senior Pentagon officials express little confidence that the community and business leaders acting as interlocutors in Falluja actually hold sway over the insurgents, or even a majority of that Sunni city's residents. That is why American commanders at Falluja have said they would soon begin sending patrols of marines and Iraqi forces into the dusty streets of the Sunni stronghold west of Baghdad, backing them up forcefully if need be.
 The Shiite religious establishment in Najaf expresses no affection for Mr. Sadr, partly because of his father's split with the other grand ayatollahs and partly because of Mr. Sadr's alleged involvement in the killing last April of Abdul Majid al-Khoei, a respected American-backed cleric who was returning from exile.
 American officials announced early this month that an Iraqi judge had issued a warrant for Mr. Sadr's arrest in the killing. Since then, some leaders in Najaf have been more open in criticizing Mr. Sadr, perhaps emboldening Mr. Bremer to call for residents to act.
 An aide for one grand ayatollah in Najaf said in an interview that the marjaiah, a group of four powerful clerics, wanted Mr. Sadr to leave town but would also condemn the Americans if they invaded Najaf.
 On Friday, an imam in the Shrine of Ali, Sadr al-Din al-Kubanchi, told 2,500 worshipers that armed men taking refuge in Najaf or using holy sites as a shield were cowards.
 A group calling itself ''Najaf's Intellectuals'' handed out fliers two weeks ago about the killing of Mr. Khoei. The letter listed 24 people tied to Mr. Sadr who it said took part in the mutilation of Mr. Khoei, and it said Mr. Khoei ran to Mr. Sadr's office to seek refuge, only to have Mr. Sadr leave him to the mob. Other reports from Najaf indicate that residents may be attacking members of Mr. Sadr's militia, but there was no independent confirmation.
 There is another difference between the two cities. While the fighters in Falluja are mounting credible small-unit military missions, and have the support of at least some percentage of the population, Mr. Sadr's militia in Najaf are mostly young, unemployed men with little military experience, and their insurrection is said by American commanders to have raised the ire of local shopkeepers and merchants.
 Hundreds of members of the undisciplined Mahdi Army control the downtown, blocking main roads and guarding the Shrine of Ali, as well as much of the nearby town of Kufa.
 American and allied officials say that attacking Mr. Sadr's militia in Najaf could stir them up elsewhere. He has a strong base of support in Sadr City, a slum of two million people in northeastern Baghdad.
 In Basra, though, where suicide bombers killed more than 50 people last week, the allied commander in southern Iraq said that Mr. Sadr is not personally popular but that his words strike a populist chord.
 The commander, Maj. Gen. Andrew Stewart of the British Army, said moderate Shiite clerics had warned him that their tacit support of the occupation would end, and end violently, if American-led forces attacked Najaf. ''Shias have told us that shrine must be untouched,'' he said. ''If it's destroyed or damaged, that would be seen as an attack on the Shia as a whole.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Military Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Najaf (Iraq); Falluja (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



580 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: A Night of Living Art at the Metropolitan Museum

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
The term Estee Lauder liked to use was ''elegant achievers,'' a cosmetic and certainly a polite way of saying people on the make. No town appreciates an elegant achiever as much as this one, and few better opportunities come about for such types to disport themselves than the annual Costume Institute gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which, true to the rules of the game, is advertised as the Party of the Year.
 Hyperbole is always a given in New York, where traits like self-enchantment and self-promotion are far from being considered personality defects. Who can say that the same was not true in the courts of 18th-century France, which provided the general theme for an evening built around the Costume Institute's new show, which opens next week, ''Dangerous Liaisons: Fashion and Furniture in the 18th Century''? 
 Guests who had paid $3,500 for a ticket were encouraged to dress in the manner of the period in which newspapers first began publishing pictures of ''fashion plates.'' Certain of the fashion plates of our own day took up the challenge by dressing in custom-made period outfits. And that -- no kidding -- was just the men. 
 It was around 7:30 that Andre Leon Talley, the editor at large of Vogue, swept up the stairs and into the Metropolitan Museum's Great Hall, swathed in a voluminous 18th-century-style greatcoat designed for him by Karl Lagerfeld and hauling the teensy Oscar-winning actress Renee Zellweger like a gilded minaudiere on his left arm. Ms. Zellweger obliged the gantlet of screaming paparazzi with a come-hither pose, her hourglass figure molded into a confection by Carolina Herrera that laced seductively up the back.
 She was one of many who had taken to heart the invitation's invitation to strap on a corset. ''The boning in this thing is savage,'' said the socialite Helen Schifter, wearing a ruched and architectonic dress. 
 Mrs. Schifter and her husband, Timothy, who owns the Sportsac handbag company, fell into a densely packed celebrity receiving line. The assorted guests included Daria Werbowy, Elise Crombez, Erin Wasson and Gemma Ward, from the latest crop of fashion models; the Washington socialite Deeda Blair; the tabloid-friendly actress Jennifer Lopez; the philanthropist Ann Bass wearing a pair of diamond drop earrings with a net value equal at least to the gross national product of some small nation; and the actor Benjamin Bratt, hardly recognized in this context .
 ''There are so many pretty girls, the challenge will be to get everyone to go in to dinner,'' said Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, a co-chairwoman of the evening. Guests were mingling in the purple light of a thousand candles, and circulating around a phallic 20-foot pillar of lilacs constructed by the party designer and florist Robert Isabell. 
 Yet when dinner was actually called at 8:30, guests flocked to the American Wing, which replaced the museum's cafeteria as the designated dining space, and flung themselves onto chairs at tables full of people who had little in common besides being celebrated, accomplished, loaded or beautiful. Whether or not one believes it, it was hard to argue with the notion that Manhattan stands at the center of the world. 
 ''It's a microcosm of New York,'' said Jerry Seinfeld, who, wedged on a gilt chair between his wife, Jessica, and the comedian Jimmy Fallon, could be said to have had a lucky seat, or at any rate one that guaranteed a few laughs. ''Anna, I love your dress,'' Mr. Seinfeld told Ms. Wintour, who was wearing a Dior concoction whose silhouette called to mind a character from the Mark Morris ballet ''The Hard Nut.'' 
 ''It's my armor,'' Ms. Wintour remarked, as Mrs. Seinfeld picked at wedges of artichoke heart topped with caviar, and her dinner companions fiddled with the filet mignon slices that came garnished with the baby vegetables that Truman Capote once claimed were a signature dish of the rich. ''It's like, I'm here where I'm supposed to be, because everyone else is here,'' said Mr. Seinfeld. ''Why am I here?'''
 The answer was simple. He was there because, as Harold Koda, the curator of the Costume Institute, pointed out, ''Every good party is really about desire.'' Desire can be interpreted in a lot of ways. One of the most durable can be attributed to Marlene Dietrich, no slouch herself in the style department. New Yorkers, Ms. Dietrich once noted, are best described as people who are always hungry for everything except, of course, food.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In back-to-back photo shoots, the actor Benjamin Bratt and his wife, Talisa Soto, an actress, were among the guests last night at the annual benefit for the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (86%); WOMEN (75%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



581 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA

LENGTH: 92 words

HEADLINE: MDC Partners Acquires Stake in Henderson Bas

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Continuing its acquisition drive, MDC Partners in Toronto has acquired a majority stake in an interactive agency, Henderson Bas in Toronto. 
Terms were not disclosed.
 Henderson Bas has 41 employees, and its clients include Nike, Sprint Canada and Yamaha Motors. MDC, which bought a 65 percent interest in Henderson Bas, usually prefers to acquire stakes in agencies; its interests include Cliff Freeman & Partners in New York, Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, the Kirshenbaum Bond Creative Network in New York and Margeotes/Fertitta & Partners in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); DIVESTITURES (85%) Advertising and Marketing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: MDC PARTNERS INC (90%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (72%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS LLC (71%); MARGEOTES/FERTITTA & PARTNERS INC (71%); YAMAHA MOTOR CO LTD (58%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Mdc Partners; Henderson Bas

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (90%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (90%); 7272 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (90%); NAICS336999 ALL OTHER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336612 BOAT BUILDING (58%); SIC3799 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (58%); SIC3732 BOAT BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



582 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: KERRY QUESTIONS BUSH ATTENDANCE IN GUARD IN 70'S

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JODI WILGOREN; Adam Nagourney reported from Fulton, Mo., for this article, and Jodi Wilgoren from Canonsburg, Pa.

DATELINE: FULTON, Mo., April 26 

 BODY:
In a day of piercing and personal exchanges, John Kerry questioned on Monday whether President Bush skipped National Guard duty 30 years ago, while Vice President Dick Cheney disparaged Mr. Kerry as an opportunist unfit to lead the nation in wartime.
 Mr. Kerry had previously declined to join other Democrats in raising questions about Mr. Bush's National Guard attendance record. But during a contentious interview on national television on Monday, when pressed on whether he threw away his Vietnam war medals in a protest in 1971, he defended himself and attacked the president.
 ''This is a controversy that the Republicans are pushing,'' Mr. Kerry said on ''Good Morning America'' on ABC. ''The Republicans have spent $60 million in the last few weeks trying to attack me, and this comes from a president and a Republican Party that can't even answer whether or not he showed up for duty in the National Guard. I'm not going to stand for it.'' 
 Later in the day, Mr. Kerry challenged what he called attacks on his military record from Republicans who did not fight in Vietnam.
 ''I did obviously fight in Vietnam, and I was wounded there, and I served there and was very proud of my service,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''To have these people, all of whom made a different choice, attack me for it is obviously disturbing.''
 Mr. Cheney came here to Westminster College, where Winston Churchill first used the term Iron Curtain to describe the imposition of Communist rule in Eastern Europe, to offer a sharply drawn comparison between Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush. The vice president drew snickers from the heavily Republican invited audience as he read quotations from Mr. Kerry intended to portray the senator as equivocating on major issues of national security.
 ''The contrast between the candidates this November will be sharper than it has been in many years,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''The senator from Massachusetts has given us ample grounds to doubt the judgment and the attitude he brings to bear on vital issues of national security.''
 The developments on Monday illustrated how the White House is planning to anchor Mr. Bush's re-election campaign to the war on terrorism and showed the imperative his aides see in trying to undercut Mr. Kerry's foreign policy credentials, including his decorated service in Vietnam. Democrats hope Mr. Kerry's resume will help neutralize Mr. Bush's presumed advantage on these issues.
 Mr. Cheney's appearance also signaled the extent to which the White House intends to press him into the vice president's traditional role of raising the sword against a challenger.
 It was Mr. Cheney's third speech attacking Mr. Kerry. His words on Monday were so sharp that the president of Westminster College, Fletcher M. Lamkin, sent out a notice to students and faculty chastising Mr. Cheney for the tone he set and promising to extend a similar invitation to Mr. Kerry.
 ''Frankly, I must admit that I was surprised and disappointed that Mr. Cheney chose to step off the high ground and resort to Kerry-bashing for a large portion of his speech,'' Mr. Lamkin said. ''The content and tone of his speech was not provided to us prior to the event; we had only been told the speech would be about foreign policy, including issues in Iraq.''
 A spokesman for Mr. Bush, Nicolle Devenish, said Mr. Cheney had intended to ''put the war on terror in its historical context'' and address the ''very different views held by President Bush and his opponent.''
 ''A robust debate on how best to protect our country from the threat of global terror is central to this election and it is unfortunate that the college experienced any surprise and we will work to maintain strong ties to Westminster College,'' she said.
 Back in Washington, Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic national chairman, jumped into the fray, attacking Mr. Cheney for attacking Mr. Kerry. He even came up with a new nickname for Mr. Cheney: The Bush Campaign's Attack Dog in Chief.
 Mr. McAuliffe also criticized the vice president for not serving in Vietnam. ''When John Kerry was risking his life for his country in Vietnam,'' Mr. McAuliffe said, ''Dick Cheney was getting deferments because, in his words, he had other priorities than military service. And he feels qualified to tell us that John Kerry won't do whatever it takes to defend America?''
 While Mr. Kerry and Mr. Cheney went after each other with a vigor that made it hard to believe Election Day was still 27 weeks away, the president sought to sail above it all, a course that Mr. Bush's aides said they hoped he would take frequently, with Mr. Cheney's help. Mr. Bush headed to another swing state, Minnesota, to deliver a speech on technological innovation to an association of community colleges.
 Mr. Bush did not mention Mr. Kerry's name once. Nor did he address Mr. Kerry's reference to the questions about whether Mr. Bush showed up for some of his National Guard duties in the 1970's. The White House tried to put the questions to rest in February by releasing hundreds of pages of President Bush's National Guard records. But a number of men who served in Mr. Bush's Alabama National Guard unit in 1972 have said they did not recall seeing him there.
 Mr. Kerry began a three-day bus trip on Monday, starting in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, intending to focus on some of the most economically distressed swing states. The bus tour was intended to begin a more aggressive phase of Mr. Kerry's campaign against Mr. Bush.
 He accused the Bush administration of failing to enforce the United States' trade agreements, saying, ''What America really needs is a president who's going to be able to get our economy back in line with American values.''
 But for much of the day, instead, Mr. Kerry and his campaign struggled with questions about national security and his youthful role as an antiwar protester. The questions were driven in part by an orchestrated Republican effort that included a new series of Bush television advertisements highlighting votes by Mr. Kerry cutting military spending, as well as Mr. Cheney's speech on Monday.
 Much of Mr. Kerry's energy, starting with his morning interview on ABC and continuing with interviews throughout the day, was spent trying to explain a 1971 television interview in which he said that he had thrown away his medals as part of a protest by Vietnam Veterans Against the War. In other interviews, Mr. Kerry said he had thrown away only the ribbons, and kept the medals. Republicans have seized on the issue to portray him as both inconsistent and unprincipled.
 Mr. Kerry said there was no inconsistency in his statements because there was no real difference between the medals and the ribbons. But Mr. Kerry also said he would not now display his medals or ribbons to resolve questions about whether he discarded them after returning from Vietnam and joining the antiwar movement.
 ''When they start questioning what I did or didn't do 35 years ago, or said, on a personal level, I'm going to fight back,'' he told NBC News. ''If George Bush wants to ask me questions about that through his surrogates, he owes America an explanation about whether or not he showed up for duty in the National Guard. Prove it.''
 But Mr. Kerry's aides asserted that the debate played to his advantage, noting that he had received three Purple Hearts, a Bronze Star and a Silver Star during his time commanding Navy Swift boats.
 ''Every time the Republicans force this debate, the only thing that comes across is that John Kerry is a war hero,'' said Stephanie Cutter, a senior Kerry aide. ''And that is a stark comparison with George Bush, who still can't prove he showed up for National Guard duty.''
 Ms. Devenish, the Bush campaign spokeswoman, asserted that Mr. Bush had already released enough records to allay any doubt about his National Guard record.
 ''Attacking the president is not going to solve Senator Kerry's current problem of explaining inconsistent statements,'' she said.
 Mr. Cheney sought throughout his speech to lampoon Mr. Kerry. 
 The vice president took note of an interview on ''Meet the Press'' on April 18 in which Mr. Kerry sought to respond to assertions by Republicans that he had, in an appearance in Florida, claimed to have international support for his presidential campaign. Mr. Kerry in that appearance had made a vague reference to ''leaders'' who had told him he had to win. 
 Mr. Cheney noted that in the interview, Mr. Kerry said, ''I mean, you can go to New York City and you can be in a restaurant and you can meet a foreign leader.''
 Mr. Cheney paused.
 ''Maybe next time he'll narrow it down for us a little more,'' he said. ''Maybe the name of the restaurant. The leader.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry, top, who visited a mine yesterday in Glen Easton, W.Va., criticized President Bush's National Guard record, as Vice President Dick Cheney, in Fulton, Mo., questioned Mr. Kerry's judgment. (Photos by Top, Getty Images
Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 In a speech to the convention of the American Association of Community Colleges, President Bush outlined his high-technology agenda yesterday in Minneapolis. Mr. Bush later greeted members of the audience. (Photo by European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); TERRORISM (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%) Vietnam War; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Vietnam War; Security and Warning Systems; United States International Relations; Vietnam War

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY COLLEGES (59%) National Guard (US); Westminster College

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); DICK CHENEY (90%) Adam Nagourney; Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Fletcher M Lamkin

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



583 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Global Trade Body Rules Against U.S. On Cotton Subsidies

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER; Todd Benson, in Sao Paulo, Brazil, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 26 

 BODY:
Brazil won a preliminary ruling at the World Trade Organization on Monday night that could force the United States to lower the subsidies it pays farmers to grow cotton and, eventually, most subsidized crops.
 The decision supports Brazil's contention that the subsidies paid to American cotton farmers violate international trade rules. A final ruling against the United States could lead to stiff penalties if it fails to change its practices. In another recent case involving steel, President Bush chose to remove subsidies and therefore did not have to face the penalties. 
 The ruling also puts the Bush administration in a tight bind in an election year, when Republicans are counting on support from the Farm Belt. The largest American farmers have grown dependent on the $19 billion they receive in annual subsidies.
 If the final decision in June goes against the United States, the administration is expected to appeal, if for no other reason than to delay action until after the election. Nearly all preliminary opinions are eventually upheld by the W.T.O. 
 As the first successful challenge of a wealthy nation's domestic agricultural subsidies, the Brazilian case could also force the United States, the countries of Europe and other well-to-do nations to act this summer and offer new compromises at global trade talks that have been blocked over this agriculture issue for more than a year.
 The $300 billion in annual farm subsidies and supports paid by the world's wealthiest nations have been the bane of Third World farmers. The United Nations, the World Bank and charities like Oxfam have said their elimination or reduction would provide the single biggest possible benefit for the economies of poor countries with many subsistence farmers.
 Brazilian officials said they brought the case against the United States out of frustration, saying that all attempts by poorer nations to negotiate a reduction of the subsidies had failed.
 The ruling Monday night was not publicly disclosed, and the United States and Brazil have agreed not to discuss the findings in detail until the final decision is made in June. At a news conference in Brasilia, however, top government officials said they were pleased and gratified with the ruling.
 ''This is a precedent; this is a war that must continue,'' said Roberto Azevedo, the top legal adviser to Brazil's Foreign Ministry.
 The Brazilians accused the United States of breaking trade rules that limit to $1.6 billion the amount of subsidies it can pay American cotton growers every year. The United States defended the additional financing as domestic subsidies that do no harm to global markets.
 But using data from the United States Department of Agriculture, Brazil argued that the programs led to increased American cotton production that destroyed Brazil's export markets and undermined the livelihoods of its farmers.
 Without the subsidies, Brazil estimated that United States cotton production would have fallen 29 percent and that American cotton exports would have dropped 41 percent. That would have led to a rise in international cotton prices of 12.6 percent, which would have helped Brazil's cotton farmers.
 Brazil also said that the United States was providing illegal export subsidies to American agribusinesses and manufacturers, who were given $1.7 billion to buy American cotton.
 Ken Cook, the president of the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit organization that posted a database of subsidies on its Web site that was used by Brazil, said that the ruling was putting into question how the government would pay subsidies in the future.
 ''This could mean problems for all domestic subsidy programs, for corn, wheat, rice, everything that receives big direct payments from the United States Treasury,'' he said.
 A United States trade official said Monday night that the administration would appeal the decision if the final report remained unchanged.
 ''United States farm programs were designed to be and are fully consistent with our W.T.O. obligations,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the confidential nature of the ruling. ''We have serious concerns with aspects of the panel report.''
 American farmers have benefited handsomely from the expansion in world trade, and their exports have exploded over the last years. One out of every three acres in the United States are now planted for exports.
 The cotton subsidies have helped make the United States the world's top cotton exporter, with more than 40 percent of the world market.
 Poor nations have long contended that this expansion is based unfairly on subsidies that fuel overproduction and drive down world prices. Those prices do not harm big farmers in the United States because they are subsidized by American taxpayers.
 The United States argued in its submission that its subsidies were not linked directly to the production of cotton and, therefore, did not distort trade. But the Monday night ruling threw that argument into doubt, thereby calling into question the basis of much of the domestic agricultural subsidy system.
 In its complaint, Brazil also accused the United States of additional unfair subsidies -- including the federal farm program that pays American agribusinesses and manufacturers $1.7 billion to buy the American cotton that is already subsidized.
 Brazil was joined in the W.T.O. case as third parties by Argentina, Australia, Benin, Canada, Chad, China, the European Community, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, Paraguay, Taiwan and Venezuela.
 The existing subsidies for American cotton farmers -- $10 billion over seven years -- were partly responsible for the breakdown in global trade talks in Cancun, Mexico, in September.
 West African countries, some of the poorest in the world, made cotton a test case of the W.T.O.'s commitment to remove barriers to poor nations' ability to trade their agricultural products. But the United States offered, instead, to study the cotton issue and consider reducing subsidies as well as removing nontariff and other trading barriers on cotton, synthetic fibers, textiles and clothing.
 With the United States and Europe vowing to revive those stalled trade talks over the summer, the question of agricultural subsidies and supports, especially now for cotton, will be back on the agenda. A compromise reached in trade talks could be less painful than penalties from the cotton case. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%) Cotton; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Agriculture; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Fines (Penalties); Cotton; International Trade and World Market; Farmers; Cotton

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%) Brazil; Europe

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



584 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: MAYOR PROCLAIMS HEALTHY SURPLUS IN BUDGET PLAN

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Declaring that the city's economic recession is over, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg released a $46.9 billion budget proposal yesterday that foresees a surplus of $1.3 billion this year to help finance tax breaks for homeowners and wage increases for all city workers.
 Surging profits on a reinvigorated Wall Street, an increase in the property tax and a booming real estate market mean the city now expects to take in $791 million more in tax revenues for the fiscal year that ends in June than it had anticipated in January. The city also envisions an additional $658 million in revenues next fiscal year, which begins July 1.
 ''It shows that the recession that hurt our city has ended, or at least ameliorated, and our economy and the jobs it generates are coming back,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in presenting his budget at City Hall. 
 The extra income makes it possible for the mayor to break from the gloomy budgets he has presented since taking office in 2002, which together have reduced the municipal workforce by 18,000 employees, cut $3 billion from agencies and increased property taxes by 18.5 percent.
 This time, instead of closing fire companies and threatening layoffs, the mayor is planning no major cutbacks in the fiscal year that begins in July. What is more, he is planning to use $250 million to provide property tax rebates of $400 to homeowners and spend $533 million to cover retroactive pay increases for firefighters, teachers and other city workers not covered by the contract negotiated last week with District Council 37, the union representing about a third of the municipal workforce.
 The mayor hopes to use that three-year contract, which calls for no raises in the first year, a 3 percent raise in the second and a minimum 2 percent raise in the third year, as a model for negotiations with other unions. The money being set aside for wage increases would be spent only if contracts are reached.
 The swell of black ink, while certainly preferable to the deficits that have dominated budget deliberations in recent years, brings its own political challenges for a mayor who has made fiscal prudence a centerpiece of his administration. Mr. Bloomberg finds himself in the unaccustomed position of competing with the City Council to find ways of spending hundreds of millions of dollars instead cutting the budget.
 City Council members said yesterday that despite the mayor's rosier-than-usual assessment, they believe he is continuing to underestimate the amount of tax revenue flooding into the city while inflating projected costs for other items. Gifford Miller, the Council speaker and a likely Democratic candidate for mayor in 2005, called Mr. Bloomberg's plan ''a missed opportunity budget.'' 
 Mr. Miller has proposed a more permanent 2 percent rollback on property taxes, and more than $300 million in additional spending throughout city government.
 But Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, warned that the sudden wave of revenue also threatens to be fleeting, and he is forecasting a $3.8 billion budget gap in the fiscal year that begins in July 2005, largely because of rising costs of Medicare, employee pensions and other expenses beyond the city's control. The mayor said such nondiscretionary expenses are expected to rise to $22 billion in 2008 from $16 billion this year.
 ''There's no chance that the economy is going to grow fast enough to take care of a $3.8 billion deficit,'' the mayor said. ''We'll have to find other ways.''
 Much of the $1.3 billion surplus in this year's budget would not go toward tax rebates and pay raises, but would be used to pay for costly items that the Bloomberg administration said it had not previously anticipated. Among them are a $200 million subsidy for the Health and Hospitals Corporation, $100 million to comply with a new lead abatement law and $500 million from a debt refinancing that has been stalled because of a legal challenge by the state.
 Other expenses included in the budget are $30 million for police coverage at the Republican National Convention in August, $500,000 to begin random drug testing of Fire Department employees and $116 million to support the school system's new policy of retaining poorly performing third graders.
 During Mr. Bloomberg's hourlong PowerPoint presentation on the budget, the mayor departed from the talk of doomsday scenarios and pleas for state aid that peppered his appearances in previous years. Most notably, he acknowledged for the first time what some economists and the city comptroller have been saying since last year: the recession is over.
 Employment has been up in recent months, Wall Street profits are expected to top $16 billion this year -- $4 billion higher than the city estimated in January -- and the number of tourists visiting New York has been rising steadily.
 Rae D. Rosen, a senior economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said the city's collection rates for sales taxes and gross income taxes are up by 13 percent and 27 percent, respectively, so far this year. ''We are out of a recession,'' she said. ''Depending on how you look at it, the recession ended sometime in the third quarter of last year.''
 The mayor's reluctance to accentuate the positive when discussing the city's financial affairs has been a hallmark of his approach to budget negotiations. For instance, he successfully kept hidden the fact that he had quietly set aside $200 million in this year's budget to help pay for the eventual labor agreement with District Council 37, fearing that disclosure of the reserve would weaken his negotiating position.
 The mayor's presentation sets off what is expected to be up to two months of negotiations with City Council leaders. A balanced budget must be enacted by the end of June.
 Some observers expressed surprise at the projections of large budget deficits for the years ahead, which the mayor predicts could run as high as $4.2 billion in fiscal year 2007. Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group backed primarily by businesses, said any surplus revenues would be better spent reducing future debt.
 ''After you've done this gigantic tax increase, as you're beginning to reflect increased tax revenues from a strengthening economy, to still be looking at gaps of that size is very worrisome,'' Ms. Fortuna said. ''I don't see how the city won't be doing some very significant spending cuts a year from now.''
 While unusually upbeat about the city's prospects, Mr. Bloomberg did manage to find a downside to the increase in tourists, noting that most of them are Americans, who tend to spend less than foreign visitors.
 ''The good news is, the hotels are full; the bad news is, not at the rate you'd like,'' he said. ''Restaurants are doing very well, but they're not selling their expensive wines, which is probably where they make most of their money.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday with a front-page article about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed budget for the next fiscal year misidentified the sector that has been rising sharply. It is nondiscretionary spending, which includes Medicare, employee pensions and other expenses beyond the city's control -- not discretionary spending.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Revenues Are Growing, but Not as Fast as Expenses''Recent mayoral budget proposals in New York have shown a steady increase in revenues, while discretionary expenditures have increased more sharply.Total revenue and the allocation for discretionary expenditures, in billions2002Revenues: $26.1Discretionary expenditures: 14.12003Revenues: 29.4Discretionary expenditures: 14.72004Revenues: 31.7Discretionary expenditures: 16.1Projected2005Revenues: 32.5Discretionary expenditures: 18.42006Revenues: 31.7Discretionary expenditures: 20.0Percentage change (from the previous year)REVENUES2003: 12.6%2004: 7.72005: 2.52006: -2.2DISCRETIONARY EXPENDITURES2003: 4.5%2004: 9.32005: 14.42006: 8.8Revenues do not include state and federal aid.(Source by Mayors office)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (91%); PROPERTY TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); BACK PAY (77%); BONDS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%) Election Issues; Elections; Mayors; Taxation; Property Taxes; Government Employees; Wages and Salaries; Stocks and Bonds; Real Estate 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Gifford (Speaker) Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



585 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

A Battle in Falluja During Shaky Cease-Fire
A protracted fire fight between marines and insurgents in a Falluja suburb culminated with American helicopter gunships and tanks firing at a mosque and toppling the minaret, further dimming hopes for a peaceful end to the three-week siege. One American soldier was killed, as well as eight insurgents, an American spokesman said. A1

Marine officers said they felt a sense of grim foreboding about the prospect of joint patrols in Falluja with American-trained Iraqi security forces resuming Thursday. Not only is the effectiveness of the Iraqi security forces in doubt, but so is their loyalty. A11

Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations's special envoy to Baghdad, will make a much-anticipated report today to the Security Council about how best to create a transitional authority for Iraq. A12

China Restricts Hong Kong
Beijing barred the introduction of popular elections for Hong Kong's chief executive in 2007 and ruled out any expanded use of democratic voting for the legislature in 2008, in the latest in a series of moves to restrict democracy there. The decision angered democracy advocates and drew sharp criticism from the United States and Britain. A1

British Envoys Rebuke Blair
A group of 52 former ambassadors and senior government officials sent a letter criticizing Prime Minister Tony Blair for his unflinching support for the Bush administration's approach to postwar Iraq and to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The letter asserted that those policies were ''doomed to failure.'' A14

U.S. Aid for North Korea
The Bush administration offered $100,000 in financial aid to North Korea as it copes with the aftermath of a train explosion that left as many as 8,000 homeless, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said. A6

Dublin's Cardinal Replaced
Cardinal Desmond Connell, who had been widely criticized for his handling of sexual abuse scandals in Ireland, was replaced as the Roman Catholic archbishop of Dublin. A6

NATIONAL A16-23

Kerry and Cheney Spar As Critiques Grow Pointed
Senator John Kerry questioned whether President Bush had skipped National Guard duty 30 years ago, as Vice President Dick Cheney disparaged Mr. Kerry as an opportunist unfit to lead the nation in wartime. A1

Islamic Web Master on Trial
A Web master to several Islamic organizations is on trial in Boise, Idaho, accused of plotting to aid and maintain Islamic Web sites that promote jihad. Civil libertarians say the case poses a landmark test of what is allowed under the USA Patriot Act. A16

Possible Theft Under Scrutiny
The Justice Department has opened a criminal investigation into accusations that Republican Congressional aides stole Democratic memos. A22

Prayer Case Rejected
The Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal by the State of Virginia to permit the state-sponsored Virginia Military Institute to return to the practice of dinner-hour prayers. A22

Priest Arraigned in Slaying
A Roman Catholic priest was arraigned in Toledo, Ohio, on a murder charge in the killing of a nun 24 years ago. She was strangled to death, then stabbed at least 27 times. A16

Abortion Subpoenas Withdrawn
Justice Department lawyers defending the new federal ban on a type of abortion withdrew a subpoena for abortion records from a Manhattan hospital, resolving the last question about whether the government should have access to confidential medical records, even in redacted form. A22

EDUCATION

Student Loan Profits Opposed
House Republicans say they will propose legislation requiring lenders that handle student loans to give excessive profits to the government. A19

Harvard Revisits Its Curriculum
Harvard University reviewed its undergraduate curriculum, concluding that students need more room for exploration, a greater familiarity with the world through study abroad and a better understanding of science. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Mayor's Budget Proposal Shows $1.3 Billion Surplus
Declaring that the city's economic recession is over, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg released a $46.9 billion budget proposal that predicts a surplus of $1.3 billion this year to help finance tax breaks for homeowners and wage increases for all city workers. A1

N.Y.U.'s Homeless Sophomore
In an era when attending college can cost $40,000 a year or more, hardship tales abound, but few match the story of Steve Stanzak, an NYU student who didn't get all the financial aid he needed. So he cut out the cost of a dorm room by living in the basement of the Bobst Library. A1

Plea Bargain for Killer Nurse
Prosecutors in New Jersey and Pennsylvania are nearing a plea agreement with Charles Cullen, the former nurse who claims to have intentionally killed more than 30 patients, that would spare him the death penalty in exchange for his guilty pleas in 14 murders and his promise to help investigators determine precisely who his other victims were, law enforcement officials said. B1

FASHION B8

OBITUARIES C19

ARTS E1-8

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

NASA's Science Shift
After President Bush's order that NASA redirect its energies toward human exploration of the Moon and Mars, the space agency has drastically shifted its scientific priorities, delaying missions and cutting the projected budgets on whole fields of science that it does not perceive as related to the exploration, leading many scientists to fear for the future of science in space. F1

Health & Fitness F5

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

A Ruling Against Subsidies
Brazil won a preliminary ruling at the World Trade Organization that could force the United States to lower the subsidies it pays farmers to grow cotton and, eventually, most subsidized crops. A1

Insurer Buys Oxford
UnitedHealth Group agreed to acquire Oxford Health Plans for $4.9 billion in stock and cash. C1

Drug Switching Settlement
Medco Health Solutions said it had agreed to start telling patients, doctors and employers about billions of dollars in annual rebates that the company has received from drug manufacturers for promoting their products. C1

Company Restates Numbers
Computer Associates International ended an internal investigation into its accounting practices by restating $2.2 billion in sales that it had improperly booked during 1999 and 2000. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Mr. Cheney's day in court; the deaths of foster children; a destructive vote in Cyprus; of smoking bans and heart attacks.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); US PATRIOT ACT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); HELICOPTERS (72%); APPEALS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); SCANDALS (66%); LARCENY & THEFT (64%); SEX OFFENSES (61%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); SEX SCANDALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); DICK CHENEY (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); TONY BLAIR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); HONG KONG (92%); IRELAND (91%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



586 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1; TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Google Is Said To Pick Bankers To Lead Its I.P.O.

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker, may be on trial for obstruction of justice in a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan, but in Silicon Valley his spirit as the prime deal maker for the digiterati is still alive and well.
 Mr. Quattrone's legacy was officially cemented yesterday as the two firms that he built into technology banking powerhouses in the 1990's boom, Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley, emerged as Google's choice to lead the underwriting of an eagerly sought initial public offering. The offering is scheduled to be announced this week, executives close to the planned deal confirmed. 
 The move came as Mr. Quattrone's lawyers were calling witnesses to testify to the strength of his character yesterday. Perhaps they should also have turned to members of Google's board, whose decision to give big-name investment bankers like Goldman Sachs and Citigroup a lesser role behind First Boston may be the ultimate testament to the franchise Mr. Quattrone has left.
 ''Frank is the guy that put the word 'hot' in hot I.P.O.,'' said Andy Kessler, a hedge fund investor based in Silicon Valley who once worked with Mr. Quattrone at Morgan Stanley. ''He may be gone and fighting for his innocence in court, but the firms he put on the map in the tech I.P.O. business live on.''
 Google's decision to hire First Boston and Morgan Stanley was reported in The Wall Street Journal yesterday. 
 In many ways, the Google decision harks back to the way business was done in Wall Street and California during the boom in technology stocks, when intimate business friendships and entrepreneurial zeal mattered more than white-shoe reputations.
 While Mr. Quattrone is now out of the game, much of his staff remains at First Boston, including his two top lieutenants, Bill Brady and George Boutros, who spent most of the day yesterday sitting in the gallery of the federal courtroom to lend support to their former boss. 
 That Morgan Stanley, too, was awarded a leadership role in the underwriting -- which could reap all the firms involved as much as $100 million -- also raises recollections of the years of the dot-com bubble. One of Mr. Quattrone's colleagues at Morgan Stanley, Mary Meeker, an analyst who is still there, became famous for her aggressive recommendations of dot-com stocks that rocketed higher and in time flamed out. 
 Mr. Quattrone and Ms. Meeker overlapped at Morgan Stanley in the early 1990's, when Mr. Quattrone was a trailblazing investment banker who set up shop in Silicon Valley long before many of his Wall Street peers did.
 They become a powerful combination, with Mr. Quattrone prospecting for technology start-ups and Ms. Meeker writing the research reports, most of them bullish, in support of his deals.
 In pursuit of more autonomy and control of all elements of the deal-making process, including research, Mr. Quattrone left Morgan Stanley in 1996, stopping briefly at Deutsche Bank before ending up at Credit Suisse First Boston just as the bull market in technology stocks was really taking off.
 At First Boston, he presided over a stream of popular public offerings, some of them soaring to unheard-of heights in the first days of trading. But his close ties with research analysts there and his intricate arrangements with stockbrokers made him a target of regulators and prosecutors, who contended that he held improper sway over those departments as he pursued deals profitable to himself and the firm.
 While the house that Frank Quattrone built may now be seen as a dangerous model in Washington and some quarters of Wall Street, in Silicon Valley his business approach of betting big on technology start-ups still carries a lot of weight. 
 Spokesmen for First Boston and Morgan Stanley declined to comment yesterday.
 For Goldman Sachs, which had been expected to be a lead underwriter, the decision came as something of a blow. Like others on Wall Street, its top bankers worked intensely to try to clinch the leadership role in a Google offering, one that was thought to be worth as much in prestige as it would add in fees.
 More so than at many other firms on Wall Street, Goldman's equities division has undergone a series of significant personnel changes in the last year, one that many analysts say may have had at least a short-term effect on its core investment banking franchise.
 Through the first quarter of the year, Goldman ranked sixth in initial public stock offerings in the United States. Morgan Stanley and First Boston were first and second, according to Bloomberg News data.
 Goldman's equities chief and its co-head of research have stepped down from their posts recently as Lloyd S. Blankfein, the firm's new president, is shaking up operations to improve the profitability of the division.
 All the same, it is too early to count Goldman out of playing a big role in any comeback in technology issues. Analysts point out that Goldman lagged behind Morgan Stanley and First Boston in the early years of the technology boom, but caught up and passed them in the peak years of 2000 and 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); WITNESSES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); LAWYERS (75%); TESTIMONY (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); CELEBRITIES (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) Computers and the Internet; Finances

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse First Boston; Morgan Stanley; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin; Landon Jr Thomas

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



587 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Friends Testify on Ex-Banker's Character

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Lawyers for Frank P. Quattrone, the former investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston, called some of his friends as witnesses yesterday in hopes of portraying him as a businessman devoted to ethics and his community.
 As the defense appeared to near the end of its case -- character witnesses are typically among the last to testify -- it remained unclear whether Mr. Quattrone would take the stand at his retrial in federal court in Manhattan. 
 Mr. Quattrone, a star banker during the dot-com stock boom, is accused of obstruction of justice for endorsing an e-mail message in December 2000 urging employees at First Boston to destroy documents as part of a document retention policy. Defense lawyers contend that he was simply trying to get subordinates to follow company policy, which required regular cleanup of files. His first trial ended last October in a hung jury. 
 To bolster the image of Mr. Quattrone as an honest businessman, the defense called four character witnesses and each gave a brief but sparkling description of him.
 ''Throughout the course of my lifetime, Frank Quattrone is the most honest, ethical and truthful person I've been privileged to know,'' testified Russ Lamberto, who said he had known Mr. Quattrone for 43 years.
 Peter Giles, chief executive of the Technology Museum of Innovation in San Jose, Calif., where Mr. Quattrone has served as a director, said Mr. Quattrone was ''deeply committed to our community.''
 ''Frank Quattrone is absolutely honest and truthful,'' Mr. Giles said. ''He has earned the respect and trust of many prominent people in the Silicon Valley because of that reputation.''
 On cross-examination, prosecutors made clear that none of the character witnesses had knowledge of the case and specifically had no knowledge whether Mr. Quattrone intended to obstruct justice.
 Mr. Quattrone made $120 million for First Boston in 2000, at the height of the Internet bubble. He was a crucial player in initial public offerings of companies like Amazon.com and Netscape Communications. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WITNESSES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (79%); MISTRIAL (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Suits and Litigation; Ethics; Securities and Commodities Violations; Suits and Litigation; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse First Boston

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: Frank P Quattrone

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



588 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Bloomberg's Sunny Budget

 BODY:
Having led New York out of two years of multibillion-dollar budget shortfalls, Mayor Michael Bloomberg has brought the city to something like an oasis. The improved economy and the current surplus of about $800 million demonstrate how wise Mr. Bloomberg was when he decided to raise taxes to protect the city's quality-of-life services during the recession. The turnaround is an enormous fiscal achievement for Mr. Bloomberg, but it's a tenuous one. Politicians with their eyes on the next election could ruin everything with too many ill-targeted tax breaks, too soon. That includes Mr. Bloomberg's own plan to give a $400 property tax rebate to each homeowner in the city. 
 In unveiling his executive budget plan yesterday, the mayor made the rebate a centerpiece, which no doubt appeals to the hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers who own houses, co-ops and condos. The rebate has the advantage of being a one-time giveback, but Mr. Bloomberg would do better to use the up to $250 million it would cost to retire a bit of the city's crushing debt. His own projected figures make the case: the budget for fiscal year 2006 may require closing a gap of about $3.7 billion, in part because of the rising costs associated with Medicaid and employee pensions, which the city does not control. Now isn't the time to play Santa Claus.
 The mayor needs to strike the most fiscally conservative pose possible because there are so many other forces at work, eager to prod him into risking more money than the city can afford in spending or tax breaks. The city's teachers, firefighters and police officers are still trying to get generous contracts. The City Council is looking to beef up spending in education. That is certainly a better priority than the idea Speaker Gifford Miller is floating for both tax reductions and rebates. Mr. Miller has his eyes on a mayoral candidacy of his own, and he can be expected to try to use the budget battle to elevate his profile.
 The mayor needs to convince everyone that fiscal responsibility is still a necessary piece of the budget formula. New York's rainy days are not over yet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TRENDS (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (69%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (69%); MEDICAID (65%) Editorials; Taxation; Social Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Mayors; Economic Conditions and Trends; Recession and Depression

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



589 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Becomes a Faster Writer To Avoid Taking Ink From Kerry

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
To the relief of some of his fellow Democrats, former President Bill Clinton has finished his memoir, or at least enough of it to schedule its release by the end of June.
 Yesterday, Mr. Clinton's publisher, Knopf, announced that the book would be called ''My Life,'' -- a title Mr. Clinton chose, a person involved in the decision said -- and would have an initial printing of 1.5 million copies, a mammoth number for a work of nonfiction. 
 Mr. Clinton picked up the pace of his writing in recent weeks, often working late into the evening in order to meet his deadline, people involved in the publishing process said. 
 Some prominent Democrats had worried that publicity about the book might overshadow the party's presumptive presidential nominee, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, late in the election cycle. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Clinton promised Terry McAuliffe, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, that the book would come out before the party convention in late July. 
 As recently as two weeks ago, though, some Knopf executives were still worried that Mr. Clinton would not be done writing in time. Even yesterday, one associate of Mr. Clinton said the president was not completely finished. 
 Robert Barnett, the lawyer who represented Mr. Clinton in the book deal, said, ''We wouldn't announce June if we weren't confident the book would be ready by late June.''
 Knopf, part of the Random House division of Bertelsmann, agreed to pay Mr. Clinton an advance of more than $10 million for the book.
 Mr. Clinton is already beginning to promote his book. Last night, he addressed a meeting of the Random House sales force in New York to prepare them to pitch his book to stores, a crucial juncture in the publishing process that is seldom open to authors. 
 On June 3, Mr. Clinton will be the keynote speaker at the annual booksellers' convention, BookExpo America, in Chicago. In its statement, Knopf said Mr. Clinton would tour nationally and internationally to promote the book.
 Mr. McAuliffe said that Mr. Clinton had also agreed to appear at Democratic fund-raising events at the same time and that Mr. Clinton's book would benefit Mr. Kerry.
 ''Listen, with Bill Clinton's book out there,'' Mr. McAuliffe said, ''we're talking about eight years of great economic prosperity. What Clinton did for education, fighting for jobs, what he did overseas to unite the world -- it's all a huge plus.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BOOKSTORES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%) United States Politics and Government; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%) Knopf Publishing Group; Random House

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) David D Kirkpatrick; Bill Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



590 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 27, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: France Helped Broker the Aventis-Sanofi Deal

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and KATRIN BENNHOLD; Heather Timmons reported from London for this article and Katrin Bennhold from Paris.

 BODY:
Last Thursday, hours after Novartis of Switzerland announced that it would begin merger talks with Aventis, one side in the takeover battle swung into action. But it was not Sanofi-Synthelabo, the French pharmaceutical rival for Aventis, who took the decisive steps -- it was the French government. 
 Nicolas Sarkozy, the finance minister, made calls on Thursday to Aventis's chairman and chief executive, Igor Landau, and his counterpart at Sanofi, Jean-Francois Dehecq, asking them to come to his office for a meeting.
 The two executives met on Friday afternoon in the French finance ministry, a complex that has its own boat terminal on the Seine so that the minister can attend parliamentary sessions.
 Neither Mr. Sarkozy nor his top aides were present at the meeting, people close to the talks said. ''We told the French parties that 'Our role is to make you talk,''' a French official said yesterday. ''We ask you to discuss this between you and find an amicable solution. We offered nothing and made no threats.'' 
 On the same day that the finance ministry was playing peacemaker, the French stock market regulator stuck down an important part of Aventis's defense. 
 The separate actions were enough to end a hostile standoff between Aventis and Sanofi and start a round of negotiations that led to a $65 billion deal on Sunday, creating the world's third-largest drug maker behind Pfizer of the United States and GlaxoSmithKline of Britain.
 The combination of the finance minister's phone call and the market regulator's decision ''was a two-pronged attack on Novartis,'' said Eric Cafritz, a partner with the law firm Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson in Paris. 
 The extraordinary role that the French government played in brokering the merger that was outlined yesterday raises questions about the merits of the deal and may chill deal making in France.
 In a news conference yesterday, Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin defended his government's role, saying that France had made a strategic decision much as it had about the aerospace and nuclear industries in years past. ''The government isn't intervening just for intervention's sake,'' he said, according to Bloomberg News. 
 Still, France's support for a single bidder is highly unusual for an industrial power. In an era when other leading European economies have reduced the role of the government, France has periodically bailed out companies like Alstom, the rail car maker and the computer company Groupe Bull. 
 ''France has a history that makes people skeptical when they see this,'' said Felix G. Rohatyn, the former investment banker and a former United States ambassador to France. In industries like defense, government intervention can be justified more easily, but ''I'm not sure this was such an example,'' he said.
 Mr. Dehecq, the chief executive of Sanofi who will lead the combined company, played down the role of the government. ''Many people, not only the French government, but many political people, say this project is a good one,'' he said in a conference call. 
 What exactly occurred in the Friday meeting between Mr. Landau and Mr. Dehecq at the finance ministry is unclear. But people close to the negotiations said the meeting was certainly the turning point in a takeover that began when Sanofi announced an unsolicited cash-and-stock officer of $60 billion on Jan. 26.
 ''From Friday night onward, people from Aventis and Sanofi knew each other's positions,'' and they knew it would be possible to strike an agreement, a person close to the talks said.
 Aventis had quickly rejected Sanofi's initial offer in January, saying that it was too low. Aventis, itself the product of French and German drug mergers, then sought Novartis as an alternative merger partner. Some investors and analysts questioned the logic of such a merger as well as Novartis's appetite for such a deal.
 On Thursday, Novartis took a fateful step in its unusually public courtship of Aventis, saying it had begun exploratory merger talks. Novartis's statement prompted the French government, which had endorsed Sanofi's bid from the beginning, to try to bring Sanofi and Aventis together to achieve its goal of a French champion in the pharmaceutical industry. 
 For Novartis, that meeting derailed any chance of a merger. 
 ''For us, that changed the situation completely,'' Novartis's chief executive, Daniel Vasella, said in an interview with Le Monde yesterday. ''At the moment those discussions became amicable between the two groups, we didn't have anything more to do with the story.''
 Mr. Landau of Aventis had come to the realization that a deal with Novartis would be opposed by French government and that his best hope would be to secure a richer deal from Sanofi, a person involved in the negotiations said.
 Indeed, if he needed any further persuasion, the French market regulator, the Authorites des Marches Financiers, said late Friday afternoon, that a crucial takeover defense, stock -- warrants that Aventis's board had voted to issue in April -- was not ''within the framework of the principles that guide the course of public offers.'' 
 The warrants would have increased the number of Aventis shares outstanding by 22 percent if Sanofi were to lose a patent suit over the blood-thinning drug Plavix, a top seller, thus making making any hostile takeover prohibitively expensive.
 The French regulator denied that it had been influenced in any way by the finance ministry. ''We are a public and independent outfit,'' Sabine Baudin, a spokeswoman for the French market regulator, said yesterday. 
 After Friday, both Sanofi and Aventis were set on a merger, it was just a matter of agreeing upon something that everyone could live with, people close to the talks said. Working from offices in Paris and London, advisers for both sides were in touch constantly from Friday night through the official announcement early yesterday.
 On Saturday, Sanofi's board, including representatives from Total and L'Oreal, the company's largest shareholders, met for several hours in its Paris office to approve the improved bid. It nearly doubled the cash to Aventis shareholders to 20 euros a share, and put Mr. Dehecq in command of the combined company. 
 On Sunday morning, lawyers for Sanofi delivered their bid document to their Aventis counterparts in Paris, and the Aventis board sat down for seven hours to discuss the offer. One issue during the discussions was introduced by the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, the largest Aventis shareholder, which lobbied to have a clause included in the deal that prohibited Total and L'Oreal from selling their stock for a certain time after the deal closed. 
 It is unclear whether Kuwait Petroleum got what they wanted. The company's investment manager, who is on Aventis's board, abstained from voting on the new Sanofi bid. A lawyer for Kuwait Petroleum did not return a phone call Monday. Under the terms of the deal, Sanofi is offering five of its shares for every six Aventis shares and 120 euros in cash. Sanofi was advised by Merrill Lynch and BNP Paribas; Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Rotschild advised Aventis.
 Although the French government welcomed the deal, which was announced on Monday, the markets were not so enthusiastic. On the Paris, bourse, shares of Sanofi fell 7 percent, to 52.05 euros. Shares of Aventis fell 5.5 percent, to 62.6 euros. In Zurich, shares of Novartis rose 3.5 percent, to 58.05 Swiss francs.
 In one particular, advisers to both Aventis and Sanofi were also disappointed: although the talks involved two French companies, the food that was served during the weekend negotiations, mostly sandwiches, was ''shockingly bad,'' one adviser said. ''We thought it was a negotiating tactic.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A German business newspaper noted the deal between the drug companies Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MERGERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); TRAINS (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); LAWYERS (67%); DIVESTITURES (66%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (64%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (98%); NOVARTIS GROUPE FRANCE SA (91%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (90%); NOVARTIS AG (85%); BULL SAS (84%); FRIED FRANK HARRIS SHRIVER & JACOBSON LLP (82%); PFIZER INC (58%); ALSTOM SA (51%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Aventis; Sanofi-Synthelabo Sa

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (98%); SANF (BIT) (98%); SAN (PAR) (98%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (98%); GSK (NYSE) (90%); GSK (LSE) (90%); BIOC (EGX) (90%); NVS (NYSE) (85%); NOVN (SWX) (85%); BULL (PAR) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); ALO (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (88%) Heather Timmons; Katrin Bennhold; Nicolas Sarkozy; Igor Landau; Jean-Francois Dehecq; Jean-Pierre Raffarin

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (99%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2004



591 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Janus to Lower Fees As Part of Settlement
The Janus Capital Group said that it would lower fees on its mutual funds as part of a $225 million settlement with regulators over improper trading in its funds.
 The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, demanded the fee reduction of $125 million over five years even though, according to Morningstar, fees on Janus mutual funds are already below average. [Page C5.]

I.B.M. Announces New Servers
I.B.M. plans to introduce server computers that behave more like mainframes and are priced as low as $1,500. The new servers will be able to run as many as 10 operating systems on a single machine. One computer processor can divvy up the workload -- packing the capability of several machines into one -- by building several virtual machines of software that run on the underlying hardware. It is a technology that has existed for decades in the mainframe market long ruled by I.B.M. [C7.]

Outsourcing and Its Discontents
Some entrepreneurs are finding that India's vaunted high-technology work force is not always as effective as advertised. [A1.]

Fear and Loathing on the Payroll
Payroll managers say they are increasingly being challenged -- and in a few cases even assaulted -- by employees who say they have no legal obligation to pay taxes. [C3.]

Sony Narrows Its Quarterly Loss
Sony narrowed its quarterly net as mobile-phone profits and a lower tax bill partly offset charges from overhauling its electronics division and declines in its game business. [C3.]

Gains for Women-Owned Companies
Companies owned by women are growing at double the rate of all small businesses in the nation, according to a research group. [C4.]

Reports Point to Further Growth
Sales of previously owned homes showed a healthy increase in March, and consumer confidence rose in April to a three-month high, according to separate reports. [C2.]

Market Closes With Mixed Results
The stock market closed mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 33.43 points, to 10,478.16, after gaining more than 90 points earlier in the session. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 2.58 points, to 1,138.11, while the Nasdaq composite index slipped 4.24 points, to 2,032.53. [C7.]

Two Executives Leave Air America
Air America Radio, the new liberal talk network, said that Mark Walsh, left, its chief executive and one of its founders, and Dave Logan, its executive vice president of programming, were leaving. The disruptions in the executive suite of Air America, a subsidiary of Progress Media, came as the network continues its struggle just to be heard in Chicago and Los Angeles. [C6.]

Verizon Wireless Keeps Interpublic
After expressing dissatisfaction with agencies owned by Interpublic, Verizon Wireless is nevertheless remaining in the Interpublic fold, awarding two important assignments to units of the McCann Worldgroup division in New York. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

Verizon Communications said that its net income fell by half in the first quarter. [C11.]

Fears of a Bubble in Britain
As home prices in Britain skyrocket and consumers keep spending, some fear a collapse is inevitable. [World Business, Section W.]

'Green' Buildings Emerge in Boston
A corporate headquarters and a large science laboratory are among a growing crop of ''green'' projects in the Boston area -- buildings designed, engineered and built for efficient use of energy and natural resources. Commercial Real Estate. [C5.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,478.16 up 33.43Nasdaq composite -- 2,032.53 down 4.2410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.39% down 0.05The euro -- $1.1932 up 0.0068The dollar -- 109.42 yen up 0.75Graph tracks the daily closing price of IBM shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); NETWORK SERVERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (75%); ELECTRONICS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); OUTSOURCING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (70%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); TAX LAW (65%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); LIBERALISM (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); EXISTING HOME SALES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (92%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (80%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (92%); IPG (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (80%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (80%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (80%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



592 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Suburban Retailing for the New Brooklyn

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
In Dumbo, a high-concept exercise in nesting lust called Hadco, a demonstration center where customers can try out luxe appliances for purchase elsewhere, has opened near outposts of ABC Carpet and Home and West Elm. In Gowanus, within eyeshot of a fuel-oil depot and a bustling scrap-metal business, a gleaming new 136,000-square-foot Lowe's, the chain's first foray into New York City's urban market, is set to open this Friday. And in Red Hook, if Ikea has its way, an enormous yellow and blue box will draw shoppers to the Erie Basin.
 Even as the assorted factions with stakes in the future of Brooklyn haggle over the relative merits of housing versus industry, preservation versus economic development, and the needs of the affluent versus those of the working stiff, a quiet retail revolution has already come to the eastern shores of the East River. Responding to the pent-up desires of those living in the borough, as well as to the coming hordes foreshadowed by a new-housing boom, home renovation and furnishing stores -- some big-box, some just big -- are suddenly finding their way to Brooklyn and remaking its neighborhoods, albeit in fits and starts. While some say it means that the borough is the new Manhattan, others argue that it is becoming the new suburbs. Perhaps, in the end, it is simply the new Brooklyn. 
 ''The arrival of all of these home-furnishing stores follows the explosion in residential development,'' said Kenneth Adams, president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. ''Historically, there's been unmet consumer demand in this area, but that's really crescendoed,'' he added, as a ''wave of residential development continues to wash over Brooklyn.'' 
 According to census figures released in January, the borough leads the city in new home construction, a phenomenon that is visible in the neat rows of multifamily houses in East New York, in the 850-unit Oceana complex in Brighton Beach, and in the tall apartment buildings rising on Fourth Avenue in Park Slope and throughout Downtown Brooklyn.
 Mr. Adams plans to play host this weekend to the second annual Brooklyn Designs show, featuring the works of 46 Brooklyn-based furnishings designers and manufacturers. He said the new retailers were responding not only to the potential customers who already have homes to fix up but also to those who may be moving in soon. The chamber is following at least 34 projects that are in the proposal, planning or construction stage and could bring more than 10,000 new residences to the borough. 
 Still, this is Brooklyn, the wounded sister-city where the warring forces of change and stasis seem locked in a steely death-grip, and so the specter of these megastores and their customer traffic is being greeted with a push-me, pull-you combination of enthusiasm and revulsion. For some residents, especially when they also consider the plans for Fairway, Whole Foods and Target stores, the retailers seem like so many Godzillas lumbering through cobblestone streets, leaving devastated mom-and-pop stores in their wake. For other Brooklynites, they represent long-overdue amenities and convenience, in addition to the promise of jobs.
 All of these conflicting feelings have been reflected in the responses to the Lowe's and the proposed Ikea, though each store's path has been very different. The Lowe's store, on the site of an abandoned postal depot, has practically slipped in under the radar, with little opposition. Ikea, on the other hand, which considered but rejected the Lowe's site as too small to accommodate a 346,000-square-foot store, has become, even before it owns the waterfront land on which it hopes to build, the latest wedge dividing the neighborhood along lines of race, class and aspiration. 
 ''The Lowe's property is on the Gowanus Canal -- it's in a busy area which is pretty solidly industrial, and Lowe's is a neighborhood-serving use,'' said Leah Archibald, executive director of the Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation. ''People don't see Lowe's as a destination retail experience. Ikea is a destination. The Ikea site absolutely requires human beings to drive their cars through residential streets.''
 Lowe's executives say that the Gowanus store is critical to their consideration of expanding into urban markets, and that they worked closely with community representatives to make sure they were seen as a good neighbor. They built a tree-lined esplanade along the fouled Gowanus Canal and used local employment organizations to ensure that nearby residents were considered for the jobs, said Jennifer Smith, a Lowe's spokeswoman.
 ''We looked at the density of the market and certainly the number of households'' in the area, said Larry Stone, senior executive vice president for store operations. ''And you look at the housing and it seems that people really spend a lot of money keeping them up-to-date, so we just think it's a fabulous area.''
 The Lowe's store is as large as the standard suburban model, but while customers will not find the same selection of lawn tractors, they will find far more wallboard and high-security locks. To accommodate the city's large Jewish population, Mr. Stone said, instructional clinics will be held on Sundays instead of Saturdays. 
 As the Lowe's staff spent the week preparing for the store opening, the more contentious Ikea project moved a step toward fruition when it was officially certified by the City Planning Department for a formal public review. The proposed site, which is zoned for heavy manufacturing and would therefore need approval from the city to house a retail operation, sits at the original southern terminus of the Erie Canal, with sweeping views of open water, the Statue of Liberty and parts of Manhattan, Brooklyn and New Jersey.
 In something of a replay of a battle that erupted in Red Hook over a Fairway supermarket that is now under construction on a pier near the proposed Ikea site, opposition to the Swedish furniture giant has occurred largely among white, educated homeowners who have struggled to revive a long-derelict neighborhood. They say that the megastore will choke its streets with traffic, further pollute the air and condemn a historic waterfront to a bland, underproductive and even dangerous future.
 At the same time, Ikea, which has invested heavily in a community outreach and lobbying campaign, has found support for the store in the Red Hook Houses, a public housing development where the majority of the population lives and where unemployment runs high among the mainly black and Hispanic residents. The company plans to conduct job fairs and training sessions for project residents before offering first choice of the 500 to 600 jobs to those living within Red Hook's ZIP code, although opponents point out that includes much more affluent communities like Carroll Gardens.
 ''The products that they're bringing along with them, it will save our people from going all the way to New Jersey,'' said Dorothy Shields, president of a Red Hook Houses tenants' association. ''The main purpose that it will serve for this community is the jobs that they will be giving us because the majority of our people are unemployed.''
 Of course, the battle lines are not quite so stark, and some opponents say that their compatriots inside the houses have felt intimidated to speak their minds while some outside the projects fear being branded as racist or classist.
 ''It's very upsetting to see this come down to a racism issue,'' said Florence Neal, a white artist who came to the neighborhood in 1987 and is not in favor of the store. ''There have been barriers put up that we haven't been able to speak about. I'm certainly not a wealthy person, but I think we all want the same thing.''
 At the moment, at least, that would not seem to be the case. An alternate proposal is circulating for the Ikea site; a Bed, Bath and Beyond has tried to find a Brooklyn home; the Jehovah's Witnesses recently went into contract to sell its enormous Watchtower distribution center on the Brooklyn Heights waterfront.
 A new Brooklyn is already evolving.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian Reynolds, manager of the new Lowe's in the Gowanus section. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 A traffic consultant for Ikea, Sam Schwartz, met with hundreds of residents to discuss the effect of bringing a new store to the Red Hook area. To win support, the company also plans job fairs and training sessions. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME CENTERS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (74%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (72%); CITIES (71%); SUBURBS (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (59%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ABC HOME FURNISHINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (58%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (58%)

PERSON: K S ADAMS JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



593 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10; BOOKS OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Dad's Double Life: Journalist and New Deal Booster

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL. 
Christopher Caldwell is a senior editor at The Weekly Standard and a columnist for The Financial Times.

 BODY:

THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF ROOSEVELT
Brokers of Ideas and Power
From F. D. R. to L. B. J.
By Michael Janeway
Illustrated. 284 pages. Columbia University Press. $27.50.
 Eliot Janeway was a crusading journalist and a Democratic party eminence grise, and for long stretches he was both simultaneously in Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration. His son Michael Janeway, a Columbia journalism professor and former editor of The Boston Globe, has long followed the spoor of his father's life through footnotes in the biographies of more celebrated men. With the help of remembered dinner-table conversations and reams of unpublished correspondence, the younger Mr. Janeway has written a strange, affecting book that is a bittersweet family memoir and a fresh interpretation of the New Deal.
 He argues that his father, who died in 1993, was among a core group of Roosevelt advisers -- including William O. Douglas, the associate justice of the United States Supreme Court; Abe Fortas, the future associate justice; Thomas Corcoran, the policy maker and fixer; and the presidential aide James Rowe -- whose members constituted a ''government in exile,'' pursuing the New Deal explicitly, if quietly, well into the 1960's.
 Articles that Eliot Janeway wrote for The Nation in 1937 brought him to the attention of Roosevelt's advisers. Named business editor of Time magazine by Henry Luce two years later at age 26, Janeway became Luce's ''ambassador to the New Deal.'' The anti-Roosevelt Luce gave Janeway a long leash, permitting him, while still in Time's employ, to work for Roosevelt's re-election in 1940 and to try to get Douglas the vice presidential nomination in 1944. 
 If connections to power made Janeway wealthy through newsletters and consulting arrangements, his connection to wealth made him powerful. He brokered property deals for Lyndon B. Johnson and, after breaking with him, helped finance Eugene McCarthy's 1968 presidential campaign. 
 Not many political lives are richer in anecdote than Eliot Janeway's. One reads here of the Southern actress Miriam Hopkins knocking out the Republican presidential nominee Wendell Willkie with a lamp after he had made a drunken pass at her, and calling Janeway to say, ''El'yit, ah think ah've just killed the next Pres'dent of the United States.'' And of Fortas's wife, Carol, complaining, after Johnson had drawn Fortas away from his lucrative law practice by nominating him to the Supreme Court, ''You don't treat friends that way.'' 
 Eliot Janeway's mind was a delight and an asset to the powerful people around him. It was also a dungeon of secrets. Cleaning out a closet one day, 15-year-old Michael discovered that his father had been married before, and was Jewish, born Eliot Jacobstein, although he ''never acknowledged even in a vague way Jewish religion, culture or heritage.'' Others colluded in Janeway's reticence: his mother ''had two nameplates for the buzzer panel in the lobby of her apartment house, Jacobstein and Janeway, and changed them depending on whom she was expecting.'' 
 For long stretches this book reminds one of ''The Duke of Deception,'' Geoffrey Wolff's account of his con-artist father. Michael would later hear that his father had been expelled from Cornell for selling stolen property, and that Luce had intervened to keep him out of World War II. There was also the question of Eliot Janeway's mammoth F.B.I. file. He had belonged to the British Communist Party as a student at the London School of Economics, and it was only through connections that he survived J. Edgar Hoover, the House Un-American Activities Committee and McCarthyism. 
 The Roosevelt administration emerges in this telling as strongly influenced (or cross-pollinated, as the elder Janeway put it) by Communist thinking. Eliot Janeway's pursuit of politics through journalism leaves his son uneasy, but it did not strike the New Dealers as strange. 
 Michael Janeway writes that his father carried a boyish love of conspiracy into the New Deal, working through ''backdoor channels, off-the-books agendas, manipulation of the system, sponsorship by powerful patrons,'' even when he didn't have to. Despite a town house off Fifth Avenue, a car and driver and an income augmented by the best-selling novels of his wife, Elizabeth Janeway, Eliot Janeway clung to a sense of himself as an interloper rather than a member in good standing of the ruling class. 
 For all his claims to hard-bitten savvy, Eliot Janeway was slow to notice that politics -- and he himself -- had changed. Like others in his crowd, he saw the Democrats' nomination of John F. Kennedy as the sale of their party's birthright to the son of a tycoon who had ''turned from Roosevelt and the New Deal to unbridled reaction and support for Joseph McCarthy.'' 
 The party split between those who made peace with the Kennedy ascendancy (like Douglas and the Democratic party presidential adviser Clark Clifford) and those who could not, like Janeway. He became the most bilious of Kennedy haters, speaking of him as ''that degenerate little cripple in the White House.'' By the time Kennedy was assassinated, Eliot Janeway had burned his bridges to the party's new center.
 Michael Janeway is a better thinker than writer. One stumbles through sentences like this: ''Studying the White and Currie cases prompts disparate shocks of recognition, one that goes to character traits.'' Yet there is something valiant about this memoir that sets it high above the run of political reminiscences. Struggling against the charade of his father's ''lordly, insistent certitude about life,'' Mr. Janeway is, again and again, honest about things that it is hard to be honest about, above all his father's gradual abandonment of the life of the mind for the life of influence, and his progress down the well-traveled road from political insider to political hanger-on.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Janeway (Photo by David S. Allee/Columbia University Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: Christopher Caldwell; Michael Janeway; Franklin Delano (1882-1945) Roosevelt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



594 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Climb

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes showed a healthy increase in March amid job and income growth, and consumer confidence rose in April to a three-month high, according to separate reports released yesterday.
 Sales of existing homes increased 5.7 percent in March to a 6.48 million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors reported in Washington. 
The annual rate of existing-home sales was second only to a 6.68 million pace in September. The March purchases of previously owned homes were led by increases in the West, South and Midwest.
 Countrywide Financial and other lenders say that demand for mortgages grew in the first quarter, when rates on 30-year mortgages fell to the lowest average since June's record and home ownership climbed to a record.
 Rates on 30-year mortgages averaged 5.69 percent through the first two months of the year, when most of the decisions were made on sales completed in March, down from 5.98 percent in the second half of 2003.
 The New York-based Conference Board's confidence index rose more than forecast, to 92.9, this month as sentiment about current economic conditions improved to the highest level in almost two years. 
 Companies say they expect to increase hiring this year as an improving economy lifts sales, according to a survey by the Institute for Supply Management released yesterday. 
 About 43 percent of all manufacturers plan to increase payrolls in the balance of the year, up from the 36 percent that said so in December, the survey indicated.
 Economists had expected the confidence index to rise to 88.5 this month, based on the median of 61 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey, from March's previously reported reading of 88.3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%) United States Economy; Housing; Sales; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Labor; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%) National Assn of Realtors; Conference Board; Institute for Supply Management

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



595 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Iraq Council Appointments Urged for End of May
The caretaker government to assume sovereignty in Iraq on June 30 should be selected a month beforehand, said the United Nations envoy to Iraq, Lakhdar Brahimi, above, addressing the Security Council after his recent mission to Iraq to shape an interim administration. A1

United States marines and Iraqi insurgents exchanged fire in the district of Falluja where American troops had attacked a mosque that insurgents had been using to attack them. The intensity of the fighting appeared to rival any battle in the three-week siege, deepening concerns for a fragile peace plan. A8

What was once a soccer club is now the Falluja Martyrs Cemetery. A8

John D. Negroponte, President Bush's nominee for ambassador to Iraq, defended before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee the limits that will be placed on Iraqi self-rule, asserting that Iraqis will have ''a lot more sovereignty than they have right now.'' The panel members said they would support his confirmation. A9

Explosion in Syrian Capital
Heavily armed assailants detonated a bomb near a cluster of foreign embassies in Damascus, setting off an intense gun battle with the state security forces. Syrian officials said the attack was carried out by ''a terrorist and sabotage group,'' linking it to recent terrorist incidents in other Arab capitals. A1

Taiwan Pressing U.S.
President Chen Shui-bian is pressing the Bush administration to approve his plans to change Taiwan's Constitution, casting the United States as an intermediary in the most delicate issue dividing China and Taiwan, Taiwanese officials say. A10

Rebuke From China
China's foreign minister responded angrily to American and British criticisms of China's latest restrictions on democracy in Hong Kong, accusing both countries of holding China to a double standard after ignoring the lack of democracy in Hong Kong during Britain's rule. A10

Preparing for a Larger E.U.
Prime Minister Tony Blair said Britain had reached a ''crunch point'' in its dealing with outsiders and promised a ''top to bottom'' review of immigration policies, just four days before the enlargement of the European Union removes obstacles to Continental migration. A11

The European Union and Russia agreed to extend their economic and political relationship to the union's 10 new members, most former Soviet republics or satellites, averting a diplomatic and economic conflict. A3

Surprising Israeli Protest
Tens of thousands of Israelis descended upon the seaside settlement bloc of Gush Katif in the largest public expression yet of opposition to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's plan to withdraw settlers and soldiers from the Gaza Strip. A11

NATIONAL A12-18

Pentagon Unit Investigated On Prewar Reporting
A Senate committee is investigating whether a Pentagon unit, formed after the Sept. 11 attacks to search for evidence of links between terrorist groups and host countries, exaggerated the threat posed by Iraq to justify the war. A1

President Bush has approved initiatives designed to enhance the nation's defenses against a catastrophic biological weapons attack, including the establishment of a new system to collect and assess information about bioterrorist threats, senior administration officials said. A17

The White House said that there would be no recording or formal transcription of the joint interview of President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney by the independent commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks and that the president's counsel would sit in on the session. A18

Specter Wins in Pennsylvania
Senator Arlen Specter, a four-term Republican known for his centrist stands, turned back a challenge from his party's right wing, barely defeating Representative Patrick J. Toomey in the Senate primary. A13

Court Hears Cheney Case
The Supreme Court case involving Vice President Dick Cheney's energy policy task force and the Bush administration's efforts to avoid making public the names of energy industry officials it consulted became a jargon-laden duel that turned on questions of procedure. A12

Sisters Won't Return to Iraq
Two women whose sister was killed in Baghdad this month have chosen not to return to their Army National Guard units in Iraq, a spokesman for the Guard said in Wisconsin. A16

Kerry Escalates Attacks
Senator John Kerry spent a second day touring hard-hit industrial areas to highlight recent job losses, as he and his campaign escalated their attack on the Bush administration over the military records of the president and Vice President Dick Cheney. A14

Terror Money Hasn't Arrived
More than $5 billion in federal money intended to help communities brace for terrorist attacks has not yet reached the local authorities and is stuck in the administrative pipeline, Congressional officials said. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Former New York Officers Lead Other Departments
The gospel of New York-style policing -- specialized units, statistics-driven deployment, and a startling degree of hands-on leadership -- has been spreading throughout the country. So have the people who personify those tactics. A1

Plan to Infiltrate Convention
Would-be protesters are hoping that by signing up as volunteers for the Republican National Convention they will be able to undermine it. B1

Emergency Training Faulted
The majority of New York City's emergency medical technicians are not properly trained to enter a contaminated zone and treat victims, state officials said. B3

Expensive Trend in Budget
So-called nondiscretionary costs in the city's budget, mostly for Medicaid, employee pensions and interest on municipal debt, are a threat to the city's future fiscal health. B1

EDUCATION B9

DINING OUT F1-16

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES A19

ARTS E1-10

Casualty Names to Be Aired
The ABC News program ''Nightline'' will broadcast Friday night the more than 530 names and faces of every soldier killed by hostile fire since the start of the war in Iraq. A9

News Show as Reality TV
An edition of ABC's newsmagazine ''20/20'' about a 16-year-old mother from Ohio who is selecting among five couples vying to raise her baby has aroused concern. E1

Troubles for an Orchestra
The Long Island Philharmonic, is commemorating its 25th anniversary amid canceled programs, missed payrolls and a $250,000 deficit. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Ruling Against Fen-Phen Maker
A state court jury in Beaumont, Tex., ruled that the pharmaceutical company Wyeth should pay $1 billion in a case arising from lung disease that the plaintiff's lawyers said was caused by fen-phen, a diet drug the company made in the 1990's. C1

Quattrone on Stand in Retrial
Frank P. Quattrone testified in his retrial on charges of obstruction of justice, calmly offering a carefully prepared explanation of his role in the events that led to the charges against him and avoiding the blunders he made during his testimony in the last trial. C1

Some Rethink Outsourcing
Some American companies are concluding that the cost advantage does not always justify the effort to take advantage of India's ample supply of cheap yet highly trained workers. A1

Cotton Decision Decried
Lawmakers from major farm states, shaken by a preliminary World Trade Organization ruling against the government's multibillion-dollar subsidies to the cotton industry, warned that the action could have a devastating effect on agribusinesses and farmers nationwide. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Those illegal farm subsidies; a task of moderation; the Velella code; Brent Staples on a tree trimmed in Brooklyn.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); APPROVALS (65%); SOCCER (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



596 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: China Bristles At Criticism Of Hong Kong Restrictions

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 27 

 BODY:
China's foreign minister responded angrily on Tuesday to American and British criticisms of its latest restrictions on democracy here, accusing both countries of holding China to a double standard after ignoring the lack of democracy in Hong Kong during more than a century of British rule.
 The strong reaction was the latest sign of a growing assertiveness in China's foreign policy, as Beijing has sought to position itself as a rising diplomatic power in Asia with influence to match its increasing economic might. 
 Historians and politicians here noted that there was some truth to Beijing's complaint of a double standard, with Britain and the United States showing little interest in democracy here except in the 1940's, when Hong Kong was under Japanese occupation, and again in the 1990's, with the British colony's transfer to Chinese rule. 
 ''Do you think Hong Kong was democratic under British rule?'' China's foreign minister, Li Zhaoxing, asked reporters in Shanghai on Tuesday. ''Did the British raise concerns about that? Did the Americans raise concerns? No. Why don't you take a look at this double standard?''
 Mr. Li joined other Chinese officials in also saying that the running of Hong Kong was an internal concern for China. ''Are you clear on that?'' he asked. ''Hong Kong is China's Hong Kong.''
 In Beijing, the spokesman for China's Foreign Ministry, Kong Quan, denounced what he described as foreign interference in China's internal affairs. He pointed out that while Britain used to appoint Hong Kong's governors, China had allowed a committee of prominent local residents to choose the chief executive here, subject to Beijing's approval.
 The committee, which currently has 800 members, is dominated by business executives with large investments on the mainland, and it tends to follow Beijing's wishes. Tung Chee-hwa, the Beijing-backed chief executive since Hong Kong reverted to Chinese rule in 1997, ran unopposed in 2002 for a second five-year term.
 Spokeswomen at the American and British consulates here declined to comment Tuesday on the Chinese criticisms.
 On Monday, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's Communist Party-controlled Parliament, barred Hong Kong from holding popular elections for the chief executive in 2007 or for more than half of the seats in the legislature in 2008.
 Bill Rammell, the British Foreign Office minister, called in the Chinese ambassador to London to protest the erosion of the ''high degree of autonomy'' Beijing had pledged to permit in Hong Kong. In Washington, State Department and White House spokesmen also criticized the decision.
 Martin Lee, the founding chairman of the Democratic Party here, said on Tuesday that the British had introduced little democracy here until the final years of their rule. Direct elections for the Legislative Council began in 1991, with 18 of the 60 seats chosen by the public.
 That proportion has since increased and will reach 30 directly elected seats in elections to be held in September. On Monday, the National People's Congress capped this ratio at half the seats. The rest will continue to be elected by what are called functional constituencies, in which each seat represents a particular business, industry or profession like banking, insurance or law. These constituencies tend to be dominated by pro-Beijing executives.
 Mr. Lee said that he was nonetheless disappointed that Beijing had resorted to such a blunt declaration on Monday that it would not permit greater democracy here. Beijing could have simply asked Mr. Tung not to introduce any bills to the legislature containing electoral reforms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); HISTORY (72%) United States International Relations; Politics and Government; International Relations 

PERSON: Li Zhaoxing (Min); Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); EAST CHINA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%) Hong Kong; China; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



597 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; LETTER FROM THE AMERICAS

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Chile, the Rich Kid on the Block (It Starts to Feel Lonely)

BYLINE: By Larry Rohter

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile 

 BODY:
Achieving a free trade agreement with the United States was supposed to be the magic moment that certified Chile's entry into the elite club of stable, democratic and prosperous nations. Instead, the new accord, signed in January, has reignited a sometimes anguished debate here about what it means to be Latin American and whether Chile has somehow lost those essential characteristics.
 Since the beginning of the decade, all three of Chile's neighbors have suffered political and economic convulsions that have forced changes of government. In sharp contrast to Argentina, Bolivia and Peru, not to mention the rest of South America, Chile these days looks ''dull but virtuous,'' to borrow the title of a recent report by one Wall Street brokerage house. 
 This is a country where most people actually pay their taxes, laws are rigidly enforced and the police only rarely seek bribes. That is unusual for Latin America and probably should be cause for celebration. Yet, it has the rest of the region looking at Chile as if there is something wrong with it because it is not what the Brazilians call ''bagunca'' or what the Argentines call ''quilombo'' -- passionately messy, turbulent and chaotic.
 ''The image of Chile for many years has been that of a country that is 'different' and solitary,'' the Peruvian political commentator Alvaro Vargas Llosa, wrote in a recent essay that generated much comment here. ''Curiously, although Chile has undertaken a growing trade with the world and attracted investments, it was perceived as 'isolated' in a space that is psychological more than political or economic.''
 Chileans were abruptly reminded of their unpopularity late last year, when an uprising in neighboring Bolivia overthrew a president who favored exporting natural gas through a Chilean port. Bolivia has been landlocked since losing a war to Chile in 1879, and Chileans were shocked to discover that many Latin Americans -- led by the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez -- supported Bolivia's historical claim to recover a piece of its coastline.
 It has been this way for at least a generation, Chile as South America's odd man out. When Salvador Allende came to power in 1970, the rest of the Southern Cone was ruled by right-wing military dictatorships, and by the time those countries began to swing back toward democracy in the 1980's, Gen. Augusto Pinochet was in power.
 Chileans gained sympathy during the Pinochet dictatorship, when ''solidarity with Chile was a cause that people in Latin America believed in, somewhat like Spain was in the late 1930's,'' said the writer Ariel Dorfman. But that changed when democracy returned, he said. ''Many people resented how Chileans, especially our entrepreneurs, behaved, buying up all the banks and telephone and electricity companies and acting arrogant and obnoxious.''
 Today, Chile is a hypercapitalist state at a time when Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, Ecuador and Uruguay are all moving leftward and questioning free trade and open markets. Chile may also be suffering from what might be called teacher's pet syndrome. Since the 1980's, other Latin American countries have had to endure repeated lectures from the United States, Europe and Japan on the need to become more like Chile in opening their economies to the outside world and combating corruption.
 ''For some mysterious sociocultural reason we have been 'the serious kids in the neighborhood,''' Mario Waissbluth, a business consultant here, acknowledged recently in an essay for the newspaper La Tercera. ''We are the nerd student who does all of his homework and is loathsome to the rest'' of his classmates.
 ''Obviously it's better to be dull and virtuous than bloody and Pinochetista, but Chile has been a very gray country for many years now,'' said Mr. Dorfman, one of whose novels, ''The Nanny and the Iceberg,'' deconstructs Chile's ''cool and efficient'' image of itself. ''Modernization doesn't necessarily have to come with soullessness, and I think there is a degree of that happening.''
 The Free Trade Agreement with the United States has aggravated all these contradictory sentiments. ''Everyone, from Peru to Colombia, is fighting tooth and nail to get the same status,'' Mr. Vargas Llosa wrote. ''But it pains them that Chile has got there ahead of them.''
 Government officials here say they are conscious of their spotty image and are moving to mend fences with their neighbors. But their initiatives have been limited mainly to trade-oriented efforts like dispatching delegations to Brazil and Central America to advise on what to expect in negotiations with the United States.
 ''My concern is that of Chileans being seen as the new Phoenicians of Latin America, just good at trade,'' said Maria de los Angeles Fernandez, director of the political science program at Diego Portales University here. ''That is not sufficient to have good relations. You need other means of communication.''
 Simultaneously, though, Chile is also looking to establish alliances beyond its own troubled neighborhood. A free trade agreement with the European Union went into effect last year, a similar accord with South Korea has been ratified, and in November Chile will play host to a conference of the 21-member Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation conference -- an effort to strengthen its identity as part of the equally dull but virtuous Pacific basin.
 ''We are trying to do everything within our reach to integrate ourselves'' with the world beyond Latin America, Ricardo Lagos Weber, the main organizer of the conference and the son of the president, acknowledged in an interview. But there is also a recognition here, he added, that Chile ''can't be an enclave of modernity surrounded by poverty, instability and bad vibes'' without suffering the consequences.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bolivians dragged a Chilean flag through the streets in February to mark Chile's invasion in the 19th century. (Photo by Associated Press)
 A Bolivian student's banner says, ''Long live Bolivia! Death to damn Chile!'' (Photo by Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); TRENDS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); ETHICS (74%); BRIBERY (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); WRITERS (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (62%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Ethics; Bribery; Police; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Law and Legislation; Taxation

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%) Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) CHILE (99%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); BOLIVIA (95%); PERU (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Chile; Latin America; Chile

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



598 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Regional Orchestra Flounders In Troubled Financial Waters

BYLINE: By BRIAN WISE

 BODY:
Long Island seems to possess an artistic Bermuda triangle into which entire theater troupes, dance companies and chamber groups have vanished. The Long Island Philharmonic, faced with the area's diffuse geography and with an aging, shrinking audience base -- a problem that has plagued regional orchestras across the country -- is trying to avoid a similar fate.
 But the orchestra, founded in 1979 by the pop singer Harry Chapin and Long Island business leaders with dreams of establishing a world-class orchestra, is commemorating its 25th anniversary amid canceled programs, missed payrolls and a $250,000 deficit. It recently canceled the final two concerts of the 2003-4 season, its second cancellation this year. 
 ''This is the third very serious financial crisis we have suffered in 25 years,'' said John J. Russell, president of the Philharmonic's board. ''In a relative scope the prior two were as serious, and we came through those. But today, with many Long Island companies merging, they are becoming less philanthropic. Everyone is reaching for the same pot.''
 Since the economic downturn after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, nearly half of corporate donations to the orchestra and two-thirds of its state financing have disappeared. Board members and local arts executives say that fund-raising on Long Island has never been easy, with the potential audience spread out and a sense that the Philharmonic, which performs in both Nassau and Suffolk Counties, is not part of any one community. It must also compete for money with New York City's cultural institutions.
 Brian McCaffrey, a retired KeySpan executive and the orchestra's interim executive director, said its annual budget of $2.1 million required $500,000 in government grants and personal and business donations. 
 Nearly every corporate sponsor has significantly reduced its level of support. Corporate sponsorship usually accounts for $265,000 of the annual budget, but guarantees for the fiscal year ending on June 1 amount to only $145,000. New York State provided $170,000 in the last fiscal year but only $41,000 so far this year. 
 The recently canceled programs, scheduled for April 3 and 4, were to feature Carl Orff's ''Carmina Burana,'' which calls for a large orchestra and chorus, and would have cost $150,000 to produce. The orchestra cited slow ticket sales as the reason for the cancellation. A Jan. 29 pops concert featuring Ben E. King was canceled, too, and the orchestra was late meeting its payroll in February; it was also late in November and for a New Year's Eve gala.
 The Philharmonic is not unfamiliar with hard times. In the early 1980's and early 90's it had brushes with bankruptcy and a series of management shake-ups. Between 1995 and 2002 Karen L. Barnes, the executive director, presided over a period of stability; Mr. McCaffrey's predecessor, Christopher von Zwehl, lasted only seven months.
 Many of the musicians have complained that programming is not as inventive as it was, and that soloists are not as prestigious. During the 1980's and 90's, the Philharmonic regularly offered premieres of new works and engaged international-caliber soloists under conductors like Christopher Keene, its founding music director, and Marin Alsop, music director from 1990 to 1996. This season, under David Wiley, it featured only one major soloist, the cellist Lynn Harrell, who played in the opening concerts. The rest of the programs drew on local musicians and orchestra members as soloists.
 Unlike many regional orchestras whose identities are attached to single cities or concert halls, the Philharmonic operates as a tenant at multiple sites. It performed at several high schools across Long Island in its early years, and moved to the 2,200-seat theater at Tilles Center for the Performing Arts on the C. W. Post campus in Brookville in 1985. Seven years later a second hall, the 1,000-seat Staller Center for the Arts at the State University of Stony Brook, was added, bringing the orchestra closer to East End residents. 
 ''Long Island is a tough geography to work with,'' said Elliott Sroka, executive director of the Tilles Center. ''The Long Island Philharmonic has always tried to maintain a foot in both Suffolk and Nassau Counties, and it has experimented with concerts in other locations in an attempt to further work with the geography. But it's just such a sprawling place and it does not have a geographic center.''
 In November the Long Island Association, a business group representing Nassau and Suffolk Counties, formed a committee comprising leading arts institutions to explore ways to raise their profiles and increase collaboration. Among the 16 members are the Tilles and Staller centers, the Nassau County and Heckscher museums of art, and the Long Island Philharmonic. 
 ''One of the points of the group is to look at how we can strengthen the cultural health of this area,'' Mr. Sroka said. ''This area is very arts oriented but the same people you're trying to appeal to support locally produced art in Nassau County are also regular consumers in New York City.''
 Mr. Russell, of the orchestra's board, pointed out that potential donors often prefer to support New York City cultural institutions. ''It's what we call the bricks and mortar issue,'' he said. ''They get a bronze plaque on a building in New York.''
 Alan Inkles, director of the Staller Center, agreed that New York City would always exert a powerful influence over Long Island. 
 ''People who have moved out here have made a conscious decision,'' he said. ''They'll go to New York City to take in an orchestra or a Broadway show. We're an audience known for renting movies. My competition isn't Tilles Center or Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, it's Blockbuster Video and the couch.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: David Wiley is the music director of the struggling Long Island Philharmonic. (Photo by Bruce Bennett Studios) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); CORPORATE GIVING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); THEATER (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); DANCE (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); TICKET SALES (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) Music; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Wages and Salaries; Labor

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Long Island Philharmonic

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (53%); NG (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%)

PERSON: Brian Wise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



599 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: New York's Gospel Of Policing by Data Spreads Across U.S.

BYLINE: By SHAILA K. DEWAN

 BODY:
In the mid-1990's, a new management program called Compstat shook up the New York Police Department. Detectives stopped working 9-to-5 and started working at the hours when most crimes occur. Crime statistics, once compiled every few months, were updated and mapped weekly. Commanders who displayed a feeble grasp of their precincts' problems were summarily replaced. Crime rates raced downward, outpacing a national decline.
 Since then, the gospel of New York-style policing -- specialized units, statistics-driven deployment, and a startling degree of hands-on leadership -- has been spreading throughout the country. So have the people who personify those tactics, a diaspora of zealous former New York Police Department officers who have gone on to lead other departments.
 Some of the dozen or more in this wave of New York exports are well known, like John F. Timoney in Miami and William J. Bratton in Los Angeles. But further from the public eye, New Yorkers have been remolding departments one by one, from crime-plagued midsize cities like Baltimore down to Newton, Mass., a bedroom community near Boston whose police force numbers about one-half of 1 percent of New York's 37,000 officers. 
 ''It's culture shock,'' said Capt. Jeff Fluck, who has been an officer for 27 years in Raleigh, N.C., where a former New York deputy chief, Jane Perlov, now runs the Police Department. Captain Fluck's job has changed from one that could be left at the office to one in which the phone rings day and night. ''It is a paradigm shift like I've never experienced before,'' he said, adding that the change was long overdue. ''It's the difference between responsibility and ownership.'' 
 The culture shock goes both ways -- the New York chiefs have marveled at commanders who did not commit homicide stats to memory and departments that needed to be persuaded that the police could anticipate and prevent crime. ''Basically, they put out fires and kept the lid on things while they were here, and then they went home,'' Chief Perlov said.
 And Compstat has been forced to evolve to fit departments with different traditions and cities with different problems. ''Miami's a big city, and L.A.'s a big city,'' said Jose Cordero, a former inspector in New York who is now the chief in Newton, which has ranked among the nation's safest cities. ''The question that begs to be answered is, can the strategies be applied throughout the country, irrespective of size, economic and demographic conditions?'' 
 Others have gone to places that share many of New York's challenges. ''What I saw here, it reminded me so much of how New York was in the 80s, when crack really started to hit the streets,'' said Chief Anthony J. Romano, a former New Yorker who came to Baltimore on the coattails of Kevin Clark, who rose to the position of deputy chief in New York before going to lead the Baltimore Police Department last year. Baltimore ranks as one of the nation's most dangerous cities.
 Recruiting New Yorkers to lead other departments is nothing new. But over the past decade, as the city has become known as a leader in crime prevention, cities have been reaching deep into New York's ranks, trying to lure not only the department's leaders, many of whom have run precinct staffs larger than most police departments, but its particular brand of success. 
 Raymond W. Kelly, the New York commissioner, said he was not worried about a brain drain. ''I think we're generating a steady stream of young, smart energetic commanders,'' he said. But he cautioned that New York's success could not be replicated without money, a concern voiced my officers in other cities with New York chiefs, who said they were worried about increased workload and stress. New York, Commissioner Kelly said, had more than four officers for every 1,000 citizens, while most cities have about two.
 Not everyone needs such resources. With little violent crime to deal with, Chief Cordero, has focused on traffic accidents and car break-ins. But he and the other these new chiefs have also started undercover narcotics squads, domestic violence units, internal affairs bureaus and, in one case, a dive team. They startle their detectives by appearing in person at crime scenes. They butt heads with labor unions. And they all swear by Compstat, with its legendary inquisition-style Compstat meetings.
 Compstat began in New York in 1994, under Mr. Bratton, and the department has credited it as a major factor in the city's precipitous drop in crime. The system maps crime according to precise location and time, providing daily statistics that allow for strategic planning. At the meetings commanders are grilled by their bosses, in front of their peers, about crime trends in their precincts and what is being done about them. Behind them computer maps are projected on screens, blemished with crime locations.
 Even without the New York Police Department's ambassadors, Compstat's principles have been rapidly adopted across the country. ''Right now, there are so many variations on a theme,'' said John Firman, the director of research at the International Association of Chiefs of Police. ''It's not the New York model anymore. It may be the New Orleans model that went to Baton Rouge.''
 But the New Yorkers jealously guard Compstat's purity. ''They design Compstat meetings and it's nothing more than a staff meeting,'' Chief Cordero said dismissively. ''The accountability isn't there.''
 But what New York calls accountability, the rest of America may be inclined to call public humiliation. ''It's not like it's supposed to be demeaning,'' said Daniel Fickus, president of the police union in Baltimore, who said the meetings seemed to stifle new ideas. . ''It's not like you're in school.''
 Several chiefs said they had toned down the confrontational aspect, shifting the emphasis to sharing information. Peter J. Abbott, chief of police in Sarasota, Fla., who formerly ran a precinct in Queens, calls his version a ''kinder, gentler Compstat.'' Chief Daniel J. Oates, now in Ann Arbor, Mich., calls his ''Compstat Ultralite.'' 
 Chief Oates has still clashed with the unions over work rules and reassignments. ''My impression is, in New York, when he gave an order, people jumped,'' said Detective William Stanford, head of the police union in Ann Arbor. ''Whereas in Michigan, when he gives an order, it's like, 'Is that in our contract?'''
 Detective Stanford said that although officers poked fun at Chief Oates's manic management style -- ''He'd show up at crime scenes, homicides, wherever there was anything going on.'' -- it was a welcome change. ''The last few chiefs that we had hibernated in their office,'' he said.
 In Baltimore, Commissioner Clark is fond of inspecting problem street corners on his way home from work, sometimes jumping out of the car to interrogate loiterers or search mailboxes for stashed guns. On a recent day in North Baltimore, two women on a porch looked on in disbelief as their police commissioner, in full dress uniform, questioned a young man suspected of dealing drugs. The youth claimed he had earned the $500 in his pocket at McDonald's. ''O.K. then,'' Commissioner Clark said. ''What are the three steps to making a McDonald's hamburger?''
 The youth was stumped. 
 Recruiting from the New York Police Department has not always ended well. Commissioner Clark was preceded in Baltimore by Edward T. Norris, who pleaded guilty in March to spending thousands of dollars in department money on liquor, lavish meals and fancy hotels.
 But most New York chiefs, including Mr. Norris before his indictment, can claim good results. In the three years he spent in Baltimore, major crimes dropped 27 percent, and in Commissioner Clark's first year there it dropped another 12 percent, although homicide remains stubbornly high. In Sarasota, under Chief Abbott, major crimes dropped 7 percent from 2002 to 2003. In Lawrence, Mass., where Chief John J. Romero has been since 1999, such crimes have dropped 43 percent. In Raleigh, they have dropped 13 percent under Chief Perlov. Nationally, crime dropped 4.9 percent between 1998 and 2002, the most recent year of statistics available.
 Some argue that statistics tell only part of the story. In Newton, parents and counselors have complained about police crackdowns on teenagers whose minor offenses were previously handled without arrests., and about trusted youth officers who were reassigned. 
 Jay Babcock, president of the Newton Police Association, said officers had been asked to stop anyone they see on the street late at night. That led to a minor controversy when officers questioned a teenager sitting on his porch. ''He's using methods that work in the big city,'' Officer Babcock said. ''In a small city-- I'm not a professor here --but I don't think it's about statistical information.'' 
 Chief Cordero said his methods had nothing to do with size. ''It's common-sense police management.'' 
 The former New Yorkers are true believers, despite -- or perhaps because of -- the fact that they have suffered through the ordeal of accountability themselves. Very few rose high enough in the New York ranks that they no longer had to answer questions with maps projected behind them. Commissioner Clark, a deputy chief in the Narcotics Bureau before he retired to go to Baltimore, was one.
 "It was the best job in the world," he said without irony. "I was finally freed of Compstat." 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Clark, the Baltimore police commissioner, stopped his car recently in the northern part of the city to question a young man on the street. (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (94%); CRIME RATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); CRIME STATISTICS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CRIME PREVENTION (72%); HOMICIDE (72%) Police; Computers and the Internet; Crime and Criminals; Police; Urban Areas; Suburbs

PERSON: William J (Police Chief) Bratton; Jane (Police Chief) Perlov; Kevin (Police Chief) Clark; Peter J (Police Chief) Abbott; Jose (Police Chief) Cordero; Daniel J (Police Chief) Oates; Shaila K Dewan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; Los Angeles (Calif); Raleigh (Nc); Newton (Mass); Ann Arbor (Mich); Baltimore (Md); Sarasota (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004



600 of 648 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Orange County

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Upstate Area Is Becoming Brisk Market For Retailers

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

 BODY:
Retail development is growing, as well as charting a new course, in Orange County, N.Y., and nowhere is the change more apparent than at the new Gander Mountain store that opened in late March in Middletown. 
 On the outside, the 123,000-square-foot store that was once home to a Wal-Mart and now caters to customers with a taste for the outdoor life, looks like just another of the big-box stores that stud the county. This store, however, aims to be a destination draw. Just past the door, shoppers are greeted by an 8-foot stuffed Alaskan brown bear; it is just one of 350 animal displays. Farther inside, the store is full of items as eclectic as camouflage-colored comforters, hunters' decoys, a $7,000 pool table built from logs and more than 1,000 models of firearms. The store also offers services like fishing-line winding and custom arrow cutting. 
 Gander Mountain, based in Minneapolis, has 65 other stores nationwide, but the Middletown store is its largest. Todd Rymer, the director of real estate, said his company was prompted to build the Middletown megastore -- which is already attracting shoppers from eastern Pennsylvania, northern New Jersey and Connecticut -- because of its proximity to many outdoor recreational areas and also because of the size of the potential market. ''It's a very vibrant retail area,'' he said. 
 Still, not all of the development news has been upbeat lately in Orange County. On April 19, Wal-Mart Stores, citing big improvements in its existing distribution system, announced that it was dropping plans to build a 1.2-million-square foot regional distribution center on a 320-acre site in Wallkill. Groundbreaking for the proposed center had been scheduled for this Saturday.
 Despite Wal-Mart's withdrawal, demand in Orange County is still brisk among companies looking for either industrial or distribution space, local officials and real estate executives say. 
 Retailers, meanwhile, are beginning to move beyond the big-box stores that seem omnipresent in the triangular area formed by Middletown, Newburgh and Harriman. In terms of other types of stores, the county until quite recently was ''tremendously under-retailed,'' according to Elisabeth Mansfield, the founder of Mansfield Commercial Real Estate in Goshen. 
 Lately, retailers have been focusing on some lesser-known parts of the county, like Chester. And they are also trying to bring more high-end stores as well as those, like Gander Mountain, that are destination spots in their own right.
 Some developers, meanwhile, are upgrading their tenant mix. In the last year, the 220-store Woodbury Common, for example, has had 10 new stores opened by brands like Diesel and Elie Tahari, which currently have few, if any, outlet centers elsewhere, said Michele Rothstein, a marketing vice president at the Chelsea Property Group, the real estate investment trust based in Roseland, N.J., that owns the center. 
 Adrian Goddard, the managing founder of Goddard Development Partners in Cornwall, N.Y., said of the county, ''The first wave of retail here is established and has done well enough -- now we're in the second phase.'' 
 Mr. Goddard estimated that over the last five years the cost of land already locally approved in Orange County for developing high-quality retail projects had doubled and is now $10 to $12 a square foot. His company is about to begin constructing 65,000 square feet of retail space next to a Lowe's store, west of the New York Thruway, in the town of Newburgh. The site is to have the first large brand-name bookstore in Orange County, a 25,000-square-foot Barnes & Noble store.
 Despite strong growth in tourism, there are still no high-end destination-type hotels in the county. According to the Orange County Partnership, an economic development group, eight hotels are either in construction or under development in the county, which already has about four dozen in operation. Still, some parts of the county have almost no hotels, like the area in Harriman that surrounds both Woodbury Common and the newer 228,000-square-foot Woodbury Center shopping complex. 
 Some developers -- like Martin Harfenes, a partner at the Manhattan-based Woodbury Development -- want to change that. Along with his business partner, Ari Chitrick, Mr. Harfenes is working with local officials to develop a proposal for a transit complex that would include amenities like an entertainment center and a hotel on 130 acres of land that are a five minute drive to the Metro-North train station in Harriman.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers at the new Gander Mountain outlet in Middletown, N.Y., are greeted by a stuffed bear. (Photo by Chris Ramirez for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''National housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates through March.Graph tracks national housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates from 2000 through March 2004.(Source by Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MARKET SIZE (65%) Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); CHELSEA PROPERTY GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Gander Mountain Stores

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%)

PERSON: Sana Siwolop

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; Orange County (NY); Middletown (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2004

 
