

801 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Letting the Dollar Alone 

 BODY:
Currency markets have been wondering whether the United States might moderate its strong-dollar policy. On July 19, President Bush pointed out that the dollar's high value relative to other currencies had dampened demand for American exports and hurt corporate profits, suggesting the need for corrective action. But on Thursday Paul O'Neill, the secretary of the Treasury, joined his two most recent predecessors in backing the strong-dollar policy that has helped to keep inflation and import prices low, and foreign investment high, during the past decade. Propping up or weakening the dollar would require interventions that might do more harm than good. For the time being, Mr. Bush and Mr. O'Neill should sit back and allow economic trends to influence the currency's position. 
 The uncertainty investors perceived in Washington led the dollar to weaken slightly, but it remains close to long-term peaks. On July 7, the dollar reached its highest rate against the Japanese yen since the tail end of the Asian crisis of 1998. Until Mr. Bush made his comments, the dollar had been hovering close to its all-time highs against the euro for months. And in June the dollar hit its highest level against the British pound in 15 years. 
 The dollar could strengthen further before it eventually weakens. Confidence in Japan has not noticeably improved, despite the new government's appetite for reform. Forecasters now predict that the Japanese economy will shrink this year, with only snail's-pace growth to follow in 2002, which could make investors less likely to seek out yen-denominated securities. 
In Europe, with forecasts for growth in France and Germany falling at the same time, the euro appears unlikely to recover. In addition, the easy victory of Tony Blair, Britain's pro-euro prime minister, in last month's elections has led markets to believe that the country will adopt the euro sooner rather than later. The pound has stayed strong against the euro, but any rise in the chance of adopting the euro is unlikely to help the pound's rate against the dollar.
Because faith in the dollar appears to come mostly from economic rather than financial considerations, interventions in foreign exchange markets could be counterproductive. An attempt by the Treasury and Federal Reserve to soften the dollar by selling it for other currencies, for example, would be risky and possibly futile. Such actions draw much of their power from speculators, who buy or sell currencies when they have confidence in the intervention and thus magnify its effect. The Treasury could lose that crucial confidence, and some of its effectiveness, with a failed intervention. Moreover, only concerted efforts by the G-7 countries have worked in the past several years.
In this case, multilateral intervention also poses problems. Japan has no persuasive reason to cooperate. An artificially high yen would create downward pressure on domestic prices, which is the last thing the country needs. Any action by the European Union, meanwhile, would come at the peril of its own badly needed exports. And even a successfully coordinated effort can fail, as demonstrated by last September's abortive move by the European Union, Japan and the United States to bolster the euro.
A strong dollar will prolong the economic slowdown for companies that either rely on exports or expect to lose business to cheap imports. They will simply have to wait it out. The dollar may be high, but, in the market's opinion, it is not overvalued. Nothing is stopping speculators who believe otherwise from buying euros, pounds and yen. But governments should stay on the sidelines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EURO (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BRITISH POUND (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); TRENDS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); IMPORT PRICES (56%) CURRENCY; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TONY BLAIR (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001 



802 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Vieques Voters Want the Navy To Leave Now 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: VIEQUES, P.R., July 29 

 BODY:
In a symbolic but emotional victory, residents here voted today by more than two to one in favor of demanding the immediate departure of the United States Navy from this small Puerto Rican island, whose eastern tip has been used for mock invasions, bombing runs and target practice for more than six decades.
 Opponents of the Navy garnered 68 percent of the vote in the nonbinding referendum, which drew 80.6 percent of the island's 5,893 registered voters. Thirty percent of the voters favored letting the military stay indefinitely, and 1.7 percent of the voters favored the Navy staying only until 2003. 
 Gov. Sila Maria Calderon, who has advocated the Navy's immediate exit and pushed for today's referendum, said tonight that she would send the results of the vote to President Bush and Congressional leaders. 
"The people of Vieques made their decision and spoke clearly," she said. "This is the people speaking with a united voice."
The victory for the anti-Navy movement was greeted with cheers in the town square as hundreds of residents pumped their fists in the air and hugged one another. Others mixed quick prayers with jubilant cries for the Navy to leave. The church bell tolled and cars blew their horns.
"Let the Navy pack their bags and go right now," shouted Lydia Gerena Corsino. "If they let me on the base, I'll even help them pack. Out with the Navy, Vieques is ours."
But after the results were announced, the Navy said it would continue its training, due to resume on Vieques on Wednesday. "The outcome of this referendum will have no impact on the Navy or our focus," said Lt. Cmdr. Kate Mueller, a Navy spokeswoman in Washington.
The referendum is legally nonbinding, but it is widely seen as an unequivocal message of self-determination to Congress and Mr. Bush. Ultimately, any decision on the Navy's presence here rests with the United States government. But many of the voters who went to the polls today said the referendum was a necessary step.
"Some people said that it did not matter, but we want to send the message of what we think," said Naomi Felix, a teacher who voted for the Navy's immediate withdrawal. "As a people, this has great significance. Washington will know what we want and will pay attention."
President Bush, under heavy political pressure to resolve the Vieques question, has already set the Navy's withdrawal for May 2003, but Governor Calderon had called for today's vote to give Vieques's 9,300 residents a choice they had so far been denied, the option to vote for an immediate and permanent cessation of military training on the island and the immediate departure of the Navy and the return of the Navy's land to Vieques. 
The Navy, in a move that angered many here, announced several days ago that it would resume military maneuvers this week no matter the results of the referendum. Damaso Serrano, the mayor of Vieques, said he planned to present Navy commanders with a letter on Monday asking them not to proceed with any exercises.
"We hope the Navy will respond to us," he said. "If they start bombing on Aug. 1, we will make the call we always have for civil disobedience." 
In the last three years, since a Puerto Rican security guard, David Sanes, was killed on the firing range by an errant bomb, thousands of protesters have gathered here, in and around the entrance to Camp Garcia, the Navy's main training area, to hold sit-ins and marches and candlelight vigils. 
Scores of protesters, including some of the celebrity advocates who have come here in a show of support for the anti-Navy movement, have been arrested for trespassing on the field.
The Rev. Al Sharpton and a host of New York politicians and sympathizers like Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the labor leader Dennis Rivera and Jacqueline Jackson, the wife of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, have all been arrested and jailed for trespassing at Camp Garcia. 
Senator Kenneth McClintock, a statehood advocate and minority leader of the Puerto Rican Senate, said today that it was unrealistic to expect the Navy to leave immediately. "This vote creates a false expectation among the people," Mr. McClintock said. 
The weeks leading up to the vote had been filled with campaigns by both sides, who took to the streets in caravans, posted fliers on lamp posts and cars, and engaged in a battle of flags in Vieques and in San Juan, with Navy supporters planting American flags and anti-Navy groups raising the flags of Puerto Rico and Vieques. Navy supporters said that their opponents had cowed people into siding against the military or keeping quiet.
The pro-Navy residents have cast their opponents as outsiders who were pursuing a radical agenda of independence and have distributed fliers saying that President Fidel Castro of Cuba was behind the anti-Navy forces.
But many voters who cast their lot against the Navy said they only wanted the well-being of their families and community. Navy opponents have long insisted, although the Navy denies it, that the half-century of maneuvers have led to high rates of cancer and other illnesses on Vieques. Medical studies have been inconclusive.
"Two relatives of mine died from cancer," said Patricio Maldonado Caraballo, 80, who voted against the Navy. "We used to have tuberculosis here, not cancer. The pollution from the bombing has bedeviled us."
Those who voted for the Navy's continued presence said they did so as American citizens, out of patriotism and a fear that a rebuke of the Navy would lead to a loss of the federal benefits that Puerto Rico receives as a commonwealth of the United States.
"I have no problem; I'm an American citizen," said Domingo Felix Saldana, a 74-year-old retiree. "I'm a veteran. I have my pension. I have my family. The Navy should stay, but this world is upside down. Who knows what will happen?"
One of the biggest concerns for many who voted against the Navy was the need to revive Vieques's moribund economy. The Navy first took possession of two-thirds of this island in the 1940's when they began using it as a range. 
As part of the deal with a former administration, the Navy returned part of the the western end of the island this spring. It has also begun to distribute $100 payments to fishermen whose livelihood is disrupted by the military maneuvers and has announced it will make grants of up to $25,000 available to local businesses. 
But such funds are seen as too little and too late for those who have had to leave Vieques to find work on the main island of Puerto Rico, or the neighboring island of Culebra, which itself had been used as a firing range until the 1970's.
"Culebra has accomplished a lot, and they removed the Navy," said William Miro, who works at a factory in Culebra. "They are the example." 
Nazario Cruz Viera was guided by a memory he carried as he voted for the Navy to leave immediately: his parents. They defended the island all their lives, Mr. Cruz Viera said, so it was his debt as a son to come out today on his 91st birthday and cast his vote.
"I can tell you the history of this island from beginning to end, and it was better before the Navy came here," he said. 
"Before, there were farms and the landowners needed many people to work them. They even gave you a place to live. We had everything. We lacked nothing." He and his parents lived on several farms until the land was sold to the Navy and he moved to town.
"My parents and 12 brothers are all dead," he said, in a voice rich in the tone and vigor of the jibaros who live off the land. 
"This is my duty to my people, my country and my parents."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cheering crowds aside, the Navy said it would resume training on Vieques despite a vote against it. (Alex Quesada/Matrix for The New York Times); Opponents of Navy training exercises in Vieques celebrated yesterday after garnering 68 percent of the vote in a nonbinding referendum. (Associated Press)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); NAVIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CALDERON, SILA MARIA (GOV); GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%) PUERTO RICO; VIEQUES (PUERTO RICO)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001 



803 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Powell Upbeat About Relations After a Visit With Chinese 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia, July 29 

 BODY:
The images of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Chinese leaders beaming at each other in their meetings this weekend, and a rare interview with the secretary broadcast today by Chinese state television, illustrate just how quickly the roller coaster relationship between the United States and China can turn. 
 Only three months ago, the two countries were snarling at each other over a downed American spy plane. But the message conveyed by all the bonhomie on Saturday was that, for the moment at least, those in the Bush administration who want to work with China are in the ascendancy. 
 After completion of his first official trip to China, Secretary Powell underscored that longer-term interests made steadier relations between China and the United States likely, even beyond the planned visit by President Bush to China in October. 
"Washington is not in a confrontational mode," the secretary told Chinese Central Television in an interview broadcast before he arrived in Australia, where he is to hold talks on the state of the alliance with the United States. 
And repeatedly, as he moved through Asia, Secretary Powell said that China "is a nation that need not be seen as an enemy." 
For Washington, the reasons for wanting a good relationship with China are many. The secretary said he told Chinese leaders that the United States wanted to strengthen economic and trade ties and work with them to reduce the potential for conflicts in the region. 
"I was particularly impressed that they reinforced their view that America does belong in the Pacific -- in the Asia-Pacific region -- and they welcome American presence as a stabilizing factor," he said. 
The secretary said that the Chinese had begun to reduce their aggressive tailing of American reconnaissance flights along the Chinese coastline. 
At the same time, the secretary, who is a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, made clear that he was not oblivious to China's defense buildup, or to the possibility of a confrontation over Taiwan. "I would expect the Chinese military to modernize and transform itself and to use some of its newfound wealth to do that," he said before leaving for China. "This is not shocking or surprising to me." 
But Secretary Powell's relatively sanguine view toward China is not held uniformly in the Bush administration, particularly at the Pentagon, where the predominant view is of the need to contain China.
China's buildup of missiles opposite Taiwan and its purchase of new fighter jets and Kilo-class submarines from Russia are seen by the Pentagon as an effort to achieve military superiority in the strait facing Taiwan, which the United States is committed to defending. 
One goal of the military buildup, according to military analysts, is to stop the United States intervening if Beijing decides to use force to prevent Taiwan from declaring independence. 
While Secretary Powell was heading to China last week, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, in an interview with The Washington Times, a newspaper with a strong anti-China editorial policy, spoke of moving United States naval and air forces closer to Asia, in case of conflicts over Taiwan or North Korea.
"I've always felt that weakness is provocative," he was quoted as saying, "that it kind of invites people to do things that they otherwise wouldn't think about doing." 
But the two broadly defined China camps in the administration -- the "engagers" and the "containers" -- are not neatly divided between the State Department and the Pentagon. 
At the State Department, the under secretary of state for arms control, John R. Bolton, who has strong ties to Taiwan, is viewed as believing in the necessity of containing China. 
In Vice President Dick Cheney's office, the chief of staff, I. Lewis Libby, signed a 1999 letter that called for an unambiguous defense of Taiwan in the event of an attack or blockade. 
Despite Secretary Powell's optimism, David Shambaugh, a China expert at George Washington University and the Brookings Institution, said he saw the containment camp eventually prevailing. Those who want to engage are in the minority in the administration, he noted. Just as important, he said, as the administration presses ahead with its plans for a missile defense, China is likely to move forward with a rapid buildup of long-range missiles.
Then there are China's human rights practices, a theme in Secretary Powell's talk Saturday, when he got a firsthand taste of China's censorship. The television broadcast was cut to eliminate some references he made to the need for China to improve its human rights. 
But the censors did let stand the secretary's description of the United States' human rights shortcomings and the progress in his lifetime. "America is a country that has had its problems over the years with respect to human rights," he said. "I'm a perfect example of it. As a black man 40 years ago it would have been unthinkable for me to dream about becoming secretary of state, but here I am."
The secretary's handling of recent human rights cases in China and his announcement that a formal human rights dialogue would resume with the Chinese quickly drew heated criticism from some Republicans. 
The recent release of two Chinese-born scholars with American residency who had been convicted of espionage was an easy gift by the Chinese, they said.
"Can it be that the Bush administration's only response to the arrest, jailing, phony conviction, and then deportation of American citizens and American residents is: Thank you for cleaning up the mess?" Robert Kagan and William Kristol, editors of The Weekly Standard, wrote in the current issue. "Is there no cost to the Chinese for such behavior?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: China's prime minister, Zhu Rongji, welcomed Secretary of State Colin L. Powell to the Great Hall of the People in Beijing during the secretary's first official visit to China. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (62%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%) POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); ASIA (92%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001 



804 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: El Seco Journal; 
New York Garment Mogul Takes Business Home

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR EL SECO, Mexico, July 29 

 BODY:
If there is truth in New York City's famous anthem, then Jaime Lucero, a dishwasher turned garment-district millionaire, can make it anywhere. And 25 years after migrating to the city of skyscrapers from the mountains of central Mexico, he seems determined to match his success back home.
 Answering his native country's plea for investments to create jobs, Mr. Lucero inaugurated a multimillion-dollar expansion of his clothes manufacturing operations in this tumbledown region of corn and cactus fields. 
 In the next two years, Mr. Lucero has pledged to spend more than $21 million to build at least six plants, known as maquiladoras, which will assemble women's clothing for export to the United States, in the process creating 7,000 jobs. 
He restored a 17th-century hacienda, Mexico's version of an American plantation, as the headquarters of his Mexican operations, saying he wanted to transform a symbol of oppression into a center of opportunity.
Top Mexican officials, including President Vicente Fox, gathered at the Hacienda of Our Lady of Conception on Saturday to celebrate the venture. In a ceremony that felt like a homecoming, hundreds of people, many of whom are important links in the human bond between New York and the central Mexican state of Puebla, came to show their support. 
President Fox expressed admiration for Mr. Lucero's storybook life and said the businessman's financial commitments had made him a powerful symbol of the new relationship between the Fox administration and Mexicans in the United States.
"If we accomplish this goal to strategically join together Mexicans over there with Mexicans who are here, there is no one who can stop us," Mr. Fox said. "There is no goal we cannot reach. When we unite, we are powerful."
Mr. Lucero's triumph echoes the success of thousands of immigrants who have beat the odds to achieve positions of prosperity and influence in the United States. 
Mr. Lucero, now 42, moved to New York in 1975 from this state with a junior high school education. He worked in a seafood restaurant in Little Neck, Queens, for six years before he began looking for ways to start his own business. And eventually he built a successful garment company called Gold and Silver Inc.
Mr. Lucero has become a pioneer in an effort by the Mexican government to tap the resources of its people in the United States for projects that help generate jobs and educational opportunities in Mexico. By helping to lift struggling communities out of poverty, government officials hope to stem the steady flow of migrants who abandon Mexico for the United States.
Speaking before the crowd gathered at his hacienda on Saturday, Mr. Lucero said that although he had decided to make his life and raise his family in the New York area, he had never been able to shake off the nagging desire to return home.
"I left in search of the famous American dream," he told the crowd. "But I must confess to you that I always held firmly on to a fantasy of returning to my homeland, of returning to my state or returning to my country. That was my constant personal dream."
It is a dream that coincides with President Fox's vision for Mexico. Since last summer, when Mr. Fox became the first opposition politician in seven decades to wrest the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party, he has worked just as hard to win the confidence of Mexicans in the United States as he does to keep his popularity at home. 
He has made immigration the central issue of his relationship with the administration of President Bush, pressing for agreements on everything from safety along the border to expanded guest worker programs to amnesty for millions of Mexicans at work in the United States without permits.
In his frequent visits to the United States, President Fox regularly meets with migrant workers and Mexican business leaders. Calling himself the president of 123 million Mexicans, 23 million of whom live in the United States, Mr. Fox promises to defend the rights of his constituents regardless of which side of the border they call home. 
And he created a cabinet-level Office for Mexicans Abroad, whose officials keep in close contact with Mexican immigrant groups in the United States.
Mexican immigrants and their more than 600 community clubs across the United States will send an estimated $8 billion to their homeland this year, making remittances this country's third-largest source of income, behind oil and tourism. But an overwhelming majority of that money is directed to relatives, who spend it on food and medicine.
The Fox administration has urged wealthier Mexicans in the United States to begin channeling more of their remittances into projects with long-term objectives. Mexican officials offered Mr. Lucero inducements like free land and worker training. But the test will be whether they are able to bring in more and more investors like him.
Officials are urging migrants to build businesses that will help Mexico keep its teetering economy out of recession and generate jobs. The aim is to combat new waves of northward migration that have started flowing in recent years out of towns like San Salvador El Seco, whose nearly 25,000 people mostly make their living as corn farmers or by mining volcanic rock that is used by local artisans.
The government has identified 90 other regions like it, where poverty has begun pushing young people north. Few corporate investors would be willing to build plants in those areas, because they offer limited infrastructure and poorly educated workers. But for many wealthy Mexicans in the United States, those regions are home.
Mr. Lucero, president of a Mexican business association in New York called Casa Puebla, was the first to sign on to the cause. He opened his first factory in San Salvador El Seco more than a year ago. It now employs 750 workers, who earn between $7.50 and $11 a day.
While those wages are almost twice what the typical farm worker earns in this region, the factory salaries are significantly lower than what Mr. Lucero pays workers for similar jobs in the United States. In an interview, he acknowledged that cheap labor in Mexico was a big part of his decision to expand his operations here. The other part, he said, was simple stubbornness.
This is not his first attempt at building a business in Mexico, he said. After his first few years in New York, he said, he returned home to start a small carpentry business in Mexico City. But he was hounded by so much corruption, he said, that he decided to sell everything and move back to the New York area.
"I was not the exception," said Mr. Lucero, who has citizenship in both countries. "It happened to many of us. It finally wore down my spirit. I decided I love my country, but I cannot be a part of all this."
New York City has many thousands of Mexican-born residents, and most of them come from Puebla. In addition to their economic influence in Puebla -- they send more that $1 billion a year to communities across the state -- the Mexicans living in New York hold important political influence in Mexico. 
Puebla's governor makes several trips a year to New York, and candidates for state and local offices in Puebla campaign throughout the five boroughs. Many Mexicans in New York, Mr. Lucero said, have been waiting for opportunities to make investments in Mexico. Mr. Fox's government, he said, persuaded him to take the risk.
"If you ask me when will I finally feel like a success," he said, "I would say when I know that Mexico has established an economic foundation that allows me to come home.
"The United States has been my home, my country. But I love Mexico, and I want to erase the feelings that forced me to abandon this country. I don't want to die with the frustration that I was not able to succeed in my homeland."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jaime Lucero, right, was thanked on Saturday by Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, for expanding his business to San Salvador El Seco. (Associated Press) Map of Mexico highlighting San Salvador El Seco: San Salvador El Seco is a town of poor farmers and miners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); APPAREL MFG (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); IMMIGRATION (67%); TRENDS (65%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) APPAREL; LABOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%) THOMPSON, GINGER; LUCERO, JAIME; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) MEXICO; SAN SALVADOR EL SECO (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001 



805 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: China Grins and Bears It 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 29 

 BODY:
With Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's visit here this weekend, and in anticipation of President Bush's planned visit in October, the Chinese have begun putting on their most charming face.
 In recent meetings of all kinds, diplomats say, Chinese officials have suddenly sounded more accommodating -- or more willing to talk seriously, at least -- about sensitive subjects like sales of missile technology, human rights and America's plans for a missile defense. 
 The shift in tone may appear surprising after months of tension during which an American spy plane landed in China; the Bush Administration described China as a "competitor," expanded arms sales to Taiwan and pushed the missile shield; and strategists on each side are openly speaking about the "threat" posed by the other.
But the new Chinese warmth, Chinese and Western experts say, reflects basic perceptions among the leaders here of their long-term interests and those of the ruling Communist Party. Those interests will drive China's leaders to cultivate American good will, the experts say, despite what many here regard as American provocations. 
"Even if the Bush administration hasn't always been so friendly to China, China is trying to do all it can to improve relations," explained Yan Xuetong, director of the Institute of International Studies at Qinghua University.
"The leaders firmly believe," he said, "that a major political confrontation with the United States would undermine the broader international environment that is the basis for China's economic modernization."
Despite deep worries about American intentions and what are perceived here as the hawkish tendencies of the Bush administration, such thinking about the need for global engagement, especially for close economic and technological ties with the world's only superpower, is nearly dogma in Beijing today.
Chinese and American experts say Beijing sees development of an advanced and competitive economy as vital to China's future world standing. They also know that rapid economic growth is the Communist Party's best hope for preserving its power as a restive population yearns for the good life of the West.
"The Chinese leaders have made it clear that their concerns are overwhelmingly internal," said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China expert at the University of Michigan who was the chief Asia adviser in the Clinton White House.
China's rulers are preoccupied with an imminent succession in the top leadership, with the economic dislocations that will accompany their entry into the World Trade Organization, with unrest among laid-off workers and failing farmers and with the desire to pull off with panache the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.
"You put all that together and they don't need foreign policy distractions at this point," Mr. Lieberthal said.
Still, confrontations and wild swings in relations, or at least in their tone, are apt to continue, experts from both sides say. That is so because of unexpected events -- like the spy plane incident, or the bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade during NATO's air war against Yugoslavia several years ago -- as well as the internal political dynamics that drive policy in both countries.
"We have one crisis after another, but then we always seem to get back on track," said Chu Shulong, a scholar at the government-affiliated Chinese Institute of Contemporary International Relations.
From the Chinese side, he said, two contradictory forces help fuel this cycle.
The first is China's desire for good relations with the United States. "We need U.S. markets and technology," Mr. Chu said. "That is a fundamental interest."
But when an event like the spy plane's collision with a Chinese fighter jet or the embassy bombing does occur, he said, the second force comes into play, often leading the Chinese government to respond with what Americans regard as uncalled-for vitriol. That is the force of Chinese nationalistic emotion, the deeply rooted and widely shared bitterness over China's history of foreign humiliations and invasions.
"Many Chinese have a negative attitude in general about U.S. foreign policy," Mr. Chu said, citing questions about unilateral American belligerence in Iraq and Yugoslavia. "When an incident like the plane collision occurs, those negative emotional feelings play a bigger role."
But Mr. Chu said that in all of the recent incidents, which also include the threats of military conflict over Taiwan in 1996, "after a few months have passed, the Chinese start trying to rebuild more normal relations."
China's need for economic links creates diplomatic leverage for the United States and other Western powers, diplomats say, though just how much is debated.
When a recent spurt of unexplained arrests of visiting scholars on security grounds threatened to sour the atmosphere for the Powell visit, for example, Chinese leaders defused the situation by releasing the three best-known prisoners.
They also listened politely to Mr. Powell's preaching about the need for systemic change, avoiding their usual objections to interference in their country's internal affairs, and they agreed to expose themselves to renewed official "dialogue" on human rights.
Still, points of severe friction are likely to remain.
China's recent flirtation with Russia in the form of a friendship treaty has upset some in Washington.
As the increase in censorship and arrests for "subversion" in the last three years suggests, saving the Communist Party's monopoly on power remains Beijing's uppermost priority, ensuring a continued debate over human rights issues and democracy.
And even if China is forced to acquiesce to an American missile defense, its leaders have made clear that they could never sit by and watch Taiwan declare formal independence. Those considerations combine to drive the Chinese toward upgrading and expanding their armed forces, experts say.
"Everyone here understands that it is beyond China's capacity to compete militarily with the United States," Mr. Yan of Qinghua University said. "If we treat the U.S. as an enemy, then we'll be taking on an enemy that's too strong for us."
"Still," he added, "China has to prepare for the worst situation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); ARMS TRADE (76%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); OLYMPICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ESPIONAGE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001 



806 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Free Theater, But the Lines? Unspeakable

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
TO be clear from the outset, we do not knock free Shakespeare (and Chekhov) in the park. We love and revere Joseph Papp's great legacy.
 We do not love and revere, however, the endurance test required to get a ticket. Or the amiable stoicism of people who have been spending nights near Central Park's Delacorte Theater, waiting for tickets to Chekhov's "Seagull." Since when is patience a badge of honor in a city where waiting for anything is usually anathema? 
 But the celebrity-studded "Seagull," directed by Mike Nichols and starring Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline and Marcia Gay Harden (among others), runs only through Aug. 19 and has become the hottest ticket in town. "The Seagull" may be more elusive than "The Producers" for those who work, are not sponsors of the Public Theater and the New York Shakespeare Festival, or don't know the secret to getting "free" tickets at a cost of $50 to $100 each. We shall reveal all in due course.
Even the truly free tickets come at a high price, if time is money.
The scene outside the theater Friday morning strongly suggested that free tickets were for the retired, the unemployed, and the vacationing only. People who arrived at 6 a.m., when the park officially opens, were out of luck because hundreds had come earlier.
The police got more aggressive this weekend, and the all-nighters shifted to nearby Central Park West and 81st Street. 
The first person in line Friday morning, Michael Trout of Washington, turned up at 12:30 a.m. and was still there at 11, waiting for ticket distribution at 1 p.m. "To me, this is a pilgrimage," explained Mr. Trout, a fund-raiser for a nonprofit group.
No. 2, Rob Benimoff, a Baruch College student, said he arrived at 1 a.m., driving in from Staten Island an S.U.V., which his father had agreed to move later, to avoid towing. "An adventure," said the son (not the father). Nuri Tassara, camping out with her husband, Luis, since 4:30 a.m., had no sympathy for the less hearty. "You get up early enough, you get a ticket," admonished Ms. Tassara, retired from the International Development Bank. 
Tough crowd. 
Even when the play in the park isn't loaded with celebrities, the lines for any night's performance start forming about 10 a.m. and the tickets -- two to a customer -- aren't distributed until 1 p.m. Same for a smaller number of tickets available at the Public Theater on Lafayette Street and at various locations in boroughs on discrete dates. A wait of three hours, minimum. 
The system is the most democratic anyone has come up with, said Fran Reiter, executive director of the Public Theater/New York Shakespeare Festival. "It's always been this way," she explained.
Is there no other way? One prospective theatergoer suggested a lottery a few hours before the performance, but someone in line said that everyone would come at the last minute, producing pure chaos. All suggestions welcome.
Of course, there are alternatives to park sleeping, because in New York, where resourcefulness is a survival technique, there are always alternatives:
FIRST, forget free. Free can be expensive. The Public Theater gets government and foundation support, but raises about $2 million a year through individual and corporate sponsorships to support the Delacorte summer season. They cost from $130 a person to hundreds of thousands of dollars for corporations, and come with tickets.
If that approach doesn't appeal, try Pete. He is Peter London, whose company, N.Y. Errands, puts students and underemployed actors to work doing chores like waiting for the cable guy or taking the dog to the vet, or doing ticket duty in Central Park. Price: $95 for two tickets weeknights, $150 weekends, plus $50 to camp out overnight. 
Who would pay for free tickets? "Tons of people," Mr. London reports. 
He said he was getting up to four calls an hour from people in search of "Seagull" tickets. Joseph Cantone, a 34-year-old stockbroker who said he spent $200 for two of the "free" tickets, figured it took at least six hours of waiting. "I didn't want to deal with it, and it worked out well."
Ms. Reiter says the service violates the tradition of free theater. "It undermines the entire point," she argued.
Mr. London demurred. "We're not taking the tickets and selling them, and given the demand, we could. We're not doing anything illegal," he said. "Only unemployed people should see this? I don't see this as being fair."
Ah, disagreement. Controversy. As we like it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (50%) THEATER 

PERSON: MIKE NICHOLS (79%); MERYL STREEP (56%) PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) CENTRAL PARK (NYC)

TITLE: SEAGULL, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001 



807 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Moving Beyond the Kyoto Impasse 

BYLINE:  By Edward A. Parson; Edward A. Parson, associate professor of public policy in the John F. Kennedy School at Harvard, was a consultant in the White House Science Office under Bill Clinton.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Much is being made of the Bush administration's exclusion of the United States from an agreement reached by 178 countries last week to move forward on combating global warming. But both those who deplore the Bush administration's snub and those who agree with the president that America couldn't afford to join in are losing sight of the long view. To really head off climate change, the world must eventually make even larger (much larger) cuts in its emissions of greenhouses gases than those envisioned in the Kyoto agreement and its refinements in Bonn. But we have some time. The Kyoto protocol calls for reductions from 2008 to 2012. In fact, the large reductions can wait for another decade or two after that. But to make these cuts in time, we must begin now to engage private business and private inventiveness in attacking the problem. 
 The world's success in preventing damaging climate change will depend on how it gets its energy over coming decades, as conventional oil and gas grow scarcer. If most new energy comes from burning coal or new fossil fuels, like oil sands, by 2100 the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will be higher than it has been for 50 million years. If most of the energy comes from nonfossil sources, or if new technologies allow us to burn fossil fuels without emitting carbon dioxide, then climate change can at least be greatly slowed and perhaps eventually stabilized. Relative to this vast choice looming a few decades ahead, squabbles over the stringency of the Kyoto emission targets are foolish. 
 We have a model that can help. The 1987 Montreal protocol on the ozone layer, now endorsed by 177 countries, is an example that is being overlooked. Its success did not come from its initial 1987 controls on the use of chemicals that deplete ozone, but from its adaptability in achieving its goals. The flexibility of the Montreal protocol made it easier for industry and governments to accept firm goals in the first place, making it possible for the world to move in a common direction.
The international controls under the protocol have been revised five times, each time with the advice of independent experts from many nations, on the applicability of new developments in science and technology. Letting regulations adapt to changing technical possibilities promoted an intense effort by private industry to reduce the use of ozone-depleting chemicals and develop substitutes for use in products like air conditioners and refrigerators. By participating, industries were better able to solve the technical problems they faced in meeting existing and anticipated regulations, and they could spot commercial opportunities in the phasing out of the old chemicals. Since 1987 the use of ozone-depleting chemicals has declined 90 percent worldwide at modest cost, an achievement that once seemed unthinkable.
The Montreal lesson has not been learned well; political forces remain polarized on climate policy. The paralyzing deadlock grows ever more perilous as new scientific reports continue to strengthen the case that we are changing the global climate, that changes are likely to accelerate and that the effects, in all countries, will be serious. We must break the impasse.
First, the nations of the world must make some -- any -- move to curb emissions, some law or rule that will exact a cost on power generators and other industries when they emit greenhouse gases, even if only a modest cost at first. Strategically, this would show the world is moving in a new direction, and the additional cost would be an incentive to develop new, cleaner technology. Implementing the Kyoto protocol without American participation can help if it means adoption of real controls by other nations. But international leaders must also keep trying to bring the United States on board. Soon, because of the dominance of the American economy, American participation will be necessary to make global financial penalties and incentives work.
Second, the world must establish a process to identify and evaluate new technologies to reduce emissions (like ways of separating the carbon from fossil fuels and putting it underground) and linking periodic review and adaptation of rules to these advances. It is vital that the energy industry and other businesses be serious participants in this process. This will require some combination of providing incentives to needed changes and removing barriers to innovation.
The failure of the Bush administration to participate in Kyoto does not mean that significant progress cannot be made by other nations. Eventually, domestic politics here may well force the administration to become engaged on this issue. In the meantime, providing incentives for innovations from private industry will help make a response to global warming economically more palatable in the future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); OZONE DEPLETION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); OIL SANDS (67%) WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING 

PERSON: PARSON, EDWARD A (PROF); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



808 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Reliance on Welfare Windfall May Prove Costly for State and City, Report Warns 

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
State and city budgets have become increasingly dependent on welfare windfalls that may evaporate in an economic downturn or in the reworking of the federal welfare overhaul next year, a nonpartisan city budget agency warns in an analysis to be released today.
 "A smaller surplus in the future would force a choice among reducing services, raising taxes or shifting the priorities in their budgets," according to the report by the Independent Budget Office, which was created by the City Charter revision of 1989 to provide nonpartisan fiscal analysis for taxpayers and elected officials. 
 The report notes that the city's largest use of the surplus has been paying child care subsidies for an estimated 26,000 children.
But how will welfare rolls respond to the next recession? Nobody really knows. The question is increasingly occupying national economists. Their estimates depend in part on how much credit they give to the economic boom, and how much to welfare policy changes, for causing welfare rolls to fall more steeply than even the strongest proponents of the 1996 overhaul had dared to hope. 
The budget office report underscores how much may depend on the answer. Five years of shrinking welfare rolls in New York and steady welfare allocations from Washington have meant a windfall for New York state and city budgets that totaled $6.7 billion statewide. 
The spending of the windfall is controlled mainly at the state level. But the city used about $470 million of the money last year for services that have now been built in to the budget, the analysis estimated, especially child care subsidies that grew to $368 million, from $167 million three years ago. 
This puts a significant part of the city's budget at risk if an economic downturn sends more people onto public aid, the analysis said, or if Congress cuts federal Temporary Assistance to Needy Families next year when it considers reauthorization of the welfare overhaul law.
Nationally, most economists estimate that for each percentage point the unemployment rate rises, the welfare caseload will rise 5 to 10 percent, said Harry J. Holzer, a professor of public policy at Georgetown University who was the Labor Department's chief economist during the Clinton administration. Typically, those at the bottom are the most vulnerable to losing their jobs or not being hired in a downturn, he said.
But there are many imponderables, he added.
"One possibility is that a lot of people might want to come back on the rolls, and the states might not let them," Mr. Holzer said. "That's not necessarily a good outcome, because they might have nowhere else to turn."
From another perspective, however, a study released last week by the conservative Manhattan Institute predicted that even a downturn that increased unemployment to 1993 levels -- 6.9 percent in the nation and 10.4 percent in the city -- from the current unemployment levels of 4.5 and 5.3 would increase the welfare participation rate of single mothers by no more than 5 percent.
The author, June E. O'Neill, an economist at Baruch College, said that her estimate assumed Congress and the states would hold the line on strict welfare rules, even in a recession. Ms. O'Neill credited policy changes with nearly half the decline in welfare participation, and prosperity with only 20 percent.
But others have given the economy most of the credit, said Sheila Zedlewski, an analyst with the moderate Urban Institute, a social policy research organization that has reviewed many similar studies. The consensus, she said, is that the boom, which created jobs, the expansion of the earned-income tax credit, which made work more rewarding, and the overhaul, which made it harder to get or stay on welfare, were all important in ways that cannot be disentangled.
Rebecca Blank, an economist who is dean of the University of Michigan's School of Public Policy, said that the best way to predict the impact of a recession was to look at the effects of past economic slowdowns on work behavior and public assistance caseloads. But in this case, she added, "the changes in programs and in behavior have been so great and so fundamental that historical evidence may be quite unreliable."
On the optimistic side, she said, because women with little education and young children significantly increased their work experience during the 1990's, they may be better able to find new jobs in a downturn or get by on unemployment benefits.
On the pessimistic side, the safety net provided by unemployment has shrunk sharply over the last 20 years, and most of the single mothers now working in part-time service jobs will not qualify for benefits if they are laid off, Ms. Blank said. 
Like most states, New York has set aside part of the welfare windfall as a contingency fund for a rainy day. A modest downturn that raised the number of aid recipients by 100,000 in each of the next two years would likely consume about $250 million of that fund, which is expected to reach a total of $790 million this year, the Independent Budget Office said.
The city agency said a more serious, long-term problem would be posed by a substantial reduction in the city's surplus because of Congressional cuts. That, it said, could force city officials "to make difficult choices between curtailing child care, job training, and other services, or drawing on additional city funds to maintain these and other programs." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FAMILY (78%); TRENDS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); CHILD CARE (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); DISMISSALS (50%) WELFARE (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



809 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: A Political Stone-Thrower Runs in Rockaway 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
John Baxter may have coined the most honest campaign slogan of all this political season.
 "If I get elected to the City Council," Mr. Baxter said, "I doubt I can change anything." 
 Mr. Baxter, a former Democrat turned Republican turned Independence Party candidate, is one of at least nine people seeking the Council seat in the 32nd District, one of the largest and most incongruous in the city. It is divided by Jamaica Bay and consists of the west end of the Rockaway Peninsula; Broad Channel; Howard Beach, which is primarily Italian and Jewish; and parts of Ozone Park, with its large East Indian population. 
But it is the Rockaway Peninsula that has the most intractable problems: 18 percent unemployment, more than its share of the borough's facilities for the mentally ill, 50 percent of its nursing homes, more than 5,000 units of public housing and an uneasy racial mix. And even if he cannot change anything in the Rockaways, Mr. Baxter said, he can do no worse than his predecessors. 
He has made a name for himself on the peninsula as a muckraker and a hell-raiser, and he rates his chances for the Council as fair. There are three factors working in his favor, he said. One is the lack of name recognition among the many candidates in this, the first term-limited election in New York City. Two is his take-no-prisoners, take-no-contributions approach to politics. Three is the uneducated voter.
"I am registered with the Independence Party," he said. "Capital I. A lot of first-time voters might think, 'Hey, I'm an independent thinker, too,' and pull the lever for me."
Mr. Baxter is an old Irish import who first washed up on the shores of Rockaway Beach in 1954 with songs of whiskey in his head, Yeats in his heart and an impenetrable sense of right and wrong. He is the proprietor of the Baxter Hotel, on Beach 116th Street in Rockaway Park. 
His establishment has often been referred to by both friend and foe as a flophouse, a fleabag and an S.R.O. His detractors say the hotel, and its shabby clientele, are a drag on the commercial strip of Beach 116th Street, and they would like to see it torn down and him blow away.
The barnlike hotel was built in 1837 as a rooming house with a fish store on the main floor. Nothing much has changed. There are still 34 rooms rented upstairs and, though the fish store is gone, there is still a stink wafting from the first floor.
The stink is raised by none other than Mr. Baxter himself.
"Everybody hates me in Rockaway," Mr. Baxter said the other morning in the back of the cluttered lobby, which smelled of sea salt and old furniture. Mr. Baxter converted the rear area into a theater and television studio. 
Mr. Baxter is a playwright and stage producer whose latest work ran in his hotel lobby last season. The title was "The Packy McCracken's Traveling Show," a one-act play that depicted neighborhood politicians as "dirt bags," he said. "There is no other way to say it. But it all winds up good in the end."
Mr. Baxter, 52, is also the host of "John Baxter Presents," a cable-access television show that skewers local personalities, politicians and the police. It is also a platform for his latest theories.
"The politicians have turned the Rockaways into the toilet of New York City," Mr. Baxter opined. "We have miles of beach. We should be an emerald. Instead, we have problems. Homeless problems. Psychotics wandering around. Nothing for the kids to do. The politicians sold us out and the only thing to do is to secede from New York City."
To show that his call for confederacy is no harebrained scheme for attention, Mr. Baxter shoved a ream of photocopied documents into a visitor's hand. He scrounged them up in the Municipal Archives on Chambers Street in Manhattan, the address of which he has committed to memory.
The papers are dated March 11, 1915, and they have the look of official state legislation. The papers say that the Rockaway Peninsula was to be incorporated into a city of its own.
"The city stole the whole peninsula, it's as simple as that," he said in a County Cavan brogue. "We formed a committee last Thursday night and we're going to secede.
"There is bargaining power in that," he added.
Mr. Baxter has made a career of throwing stones. When his hotel caught fire four years ago, he accused local politicians of arson. He once owned a small newspaper, The Rockaway Press. When he was sued for libel by the director of the local Y.M.C.A., the advertising dollars dried up, and Mr. Baxter folded the paper for lack of money. He has called the residents on the west side of the peninsula, most of whom are white, racists for their refusal to allow beach visitors to park on public streets. The list goes on.
"The political climate has never been better than now," Mr. Baxter said of term limits. "It's time to sweep the thieving rats out of office and put someone in who at least won't run the working man out. I've said a lot of things and they've never been able to stop me, because what I've said is true."
Jonathan Gaska, district manager for Community Board 14, feels that he has long played Macduff to Mr. Baxter's Macbeth. When called for comment, Mr. Gaska giggled.
"Are we on the record?" Mr. Gaska asked.
Yes, he was told.
"Well," Mr. Gaska said, and paused for a moment. "Baxter's report card as a child probably said: 'Johnny is a bright little boy, but Johnny doesn't get along with others.' "
Mr. Baxter takes pride in that reputation. "If they loved me something would be wrong," he said. "All I want is equality on Earth."
Then he made his first and only campaign promise. "If I don't do the right thing in office, I'll throw rocks at myself."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Baxter, Queens cable host and Independence Party candidate for City Council, in his hotel. "Everybody hates me in Rockaway," he said. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); BEACHES (75%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (54%) ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: BAXTER, JOHN; LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



810 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: TEHCNOLOGY; 
Venture Capital Investment Declines 61%

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 30 

 BODY:
Continuing to spurn once irresistible Internet entrepreneurs, venture capitalists invested $10.6 billion in start-ups during the second quarter, a 61 percent drop from figures in the period a year earlier, according to industry statistics released today.
 The investment community's deepening disillusionment with the new economy accounted for the drastic turnaround from last year's second quarter, when venture capitalists invested $27.2 billion, according to the research firm Venture Economics and the National Venture Capital Association, an industry trade group. 
 Venture capital investment in Northern California fell 66 percent, to $3.14 billion in the second quarter from $9.28 billion a year earlier.
As Internet companies fell out of favor, biotechnology became more alluring to venture capitalists. Start-ups focused on medical sciences, health and biotechnology received $1.47 billion in venture capital in the second quarter, a 37 percent increase from $1.07 billion in the quarter a year earlier.
"This is the most difficult environment I have experienced in my entire career," said Tom McConnell, a general partner at New Enterprise Associates. Besides nursing their portfolio of ailing companies, venture capitalists also face the challenge of finding suitable investments for the remaining $40 billion they raised from pension funds and colleges in the last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (94%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); STATISTICS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (87%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (73%); BONDS (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL 

ORGANIZATION: VENTURE ECONOMICS; NATIONAL VENTURE CAPITAL ASSN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



811 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Liberalizing Trade, To the Benefit of All 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Alan S. Blinder (Op-Ed, July 29) writes that imports allow us to "enjoy cheaper prices while foreigners work for us." This is an old sophistry. 
 Alfonso Nunez de Castro bragged about Spain's trade deficit in 1675, asserting that "all the world serves her and she serves nobody." But when its gold and silver mines ran out, Spain found that its industrial development had withered. It had only debts to show for its orgy of imports. The Spanish Empire collapsed. Those who had expanded their economic capabilities by selling to Spain were the new world powers. 
How industry, capital and technology are deployed around the world determines which societies prosper and which nations hold the balance of power. That's why no responsible government can secure its people's future by adopting "free trade" and letting some "invisible hand" (in actuality, heedless corporate managers with diminishing national loyalties) decide their fate.

WILLIAM R. HAWKINS
Washington, July 30, 2001

The writer is senior fellow, U.S. Business and Industry Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SILVER MINING (55%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: HAWKINS, WILLIAM R 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



812 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Old Station House Returns to Police Duty; 
Headquarters of First Precinct Until 1973 Will House the Police Museum

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
"Close Old Slip."
 With that terse order in 1973, Chief Inspector Michael J. Codd snapped shut a chapter of police history than ran back to the days when bowsprits and jib booms loomed outside the station house of the First Precinct -- the "most important police district in the world" -- at 100 Old Slip, on the East River. 
 Now, nearly three decades after the First Precinct moved out of Old Slip under a cloud of corruption, the New York City Police Museum is poised to move in.
That will mean displacing the Landmarks Preservation Commission, which has occupied the four-story landmark, a tile-roofed gem of a Florentine palazzo, since 1993.
Museum officials look at Old Slip as manifest destiny.
"We're going back home," said Todd Ciaravino, the executive director. "It has a history with the Police Department. Come on, it says 'First Precinct' right on the door. It's an invitation." 
The relocated museum will be open by December, he said. Construction, renovation and moving will cost $4 million. There will be 45 percent more exhibition space -- 8,000 square feet -- than there is at the current museum in the former Cunard Building at 25 Broadway, on Bowling Green.
Equally important, 100 Old Slip is a free-standing, eye-catching structure -- the words "Police Station" carved into the facade -- on the beaten tourist path between the South Street Seaport and Battery Park.
"I'm hoping Old Slip will be a magnet," said Carol Safir, the unsalaried president of the museum board. And larger quarters will permit the display of many more artifacts. "We only have the tip of the iceberg showing," Mrs. Safir said.
Her husband, Howard Safir, was responsible as police commissioner for moving an extensive historical collection from obscure quarters at the Police Academy, at 235 East 20th Street, into a gallerylike space. The new museum drew 68,000 visitors in 2000, its first full year of operation, Mrs. Safir said.
But the transition was not without controversy, including questions about how many police officers, if any, should work at the museum. (There were originally 22. That number has since been whittled down, and there will be none in the new building, Mr. Ciaravino said.)
Though the lines often blur, the museum is not an arm of the department, but a private, nonprofit corporation. It has applied for designation as the 35th member of the Cultural Institutions Group, a consortium of museums, theaters, concert halls, gardens and zoos that receive city financing.
Commissioner Schuyler G. Chapin of the Cultural Affairs Department said he favored admitting the Police Museum to the group. "After all, it's one of the major services the city provides its citizens," he said of police protection, "and a lot of people know very little about the Police Department."
Entering 100 Old Slip, visitors will find a big desk that used to be at the 46th Precinct station house in the Bronx. (The retail-minded who want to go directly to the gift shop will find that it has a separate entrance.)
The west end of the ground floor, where jail cells once were and landmarks hearings are conducted today, will become the transportation hall, with a green-and-white 1972 Plymouth Fury squad car as the centerpiece.
Weapons and notorious criminals will get their own display area on the second floor, next to a recreated jail cell. At the opposite end will be a 40-seat assembly area.
On the third floor there will be a firearms-training simulator, a crime-scene reconstruction, an exhibit on the use of DNA in police work, a section showing how the Police Department is portrayed on television, and the Hall of Heroes, honoring those who have died in the line of duty. The fourth floor and the attic floor will be used for offices and storage.
The design is by Loffredo Brooks Architects. The project is being administered by the city's Economic Development Corporation. To make way for the museum, the landmarks commission will move to the ninth floor of the Municipal Building.
Sherida E. Paulsen, the chairwoman of the commission, sounded sporting about the whole thing. "It's a great idea that the Police Museum is going to be in a precinct house," she said. "And we'll still be in a landmark."
But Mark Green, the city's public advocate, who is a candidate for mayor, said through his press secretary, Stephen H. Sigmund, that "there has to be a better way to spend four million scarce public dollars than playing musical agencies at the end of an administration."
And Laurie Beckelman, who was chairwoman when the Landmarks Commission took over 100 Old Slip eight years ago, said it was very unfortunate that the agency was going to be subsumed in a large office tower and lose its signature home.
"How ironic," said Ms. Beckelman, now deputy director for special projects at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. "Here's the Landmarks Commission being asked to leave a landmark."
The landmark in question was built in 1909 and designed by Hunt & Hunt with deeply carved stonework recalling the muscular palazzi of Renaissance Florence.
It replaced an 1884 station house on the same site from which Capt. Charles W. Caffrey and his officers once watched over the headquarters of 32 banks, the federal Custom House, the federal Subtreasury Building and the New York Stock Exchange.
"This is the most important police district in the world," A. E. Costello wrote in "Our Police Protectors," an 1885 history of the force. "No officer of police commands men who have as many billions and vast commercial and financial interests to watch over as Captain Caffrey. Treachery on the part of one of his patrolmen for a couple of hours would enable criminals to possess themselves of booty amounting to millions."
By the 1970's, it had become "a Monday-to-Friday, 9-to-5 command," recalled Richard J. Condon, the last captain at Old Slip, who went on to serve briefly as police commissioner in the Koch administration and is now a member of the Civilian Complaint Review Board. "All you dealt with was security directors from banks, brokerage firms and insurance companies."
Behind that placid front, however, a scandal was brewing in 1972, as many officers were suspected of taking money from street peddlers and building contractors. Mr. Condon was brought in as a troubleshooter.
"I went in there knowing everyone was under investigation," he said.
At the same time, Chief Inspector Codd (who also became a police commissioner) was planning to close the Fourth Precinct, at 16 Ericsson Place, near Canal Street, and move its officers to Old Slip.
Neighbors of the Fourth Precinct, including the growing artists' colony of SoHo and an older Italian-American community, objected furiously. After a tumultuous meeting at Police Headquarters, the order came down to close Old Slip instead.
In early 1973, 97 of the 110 officers in the First Precinct were transferred as the result of the corruption allegations. Almost simultaneously, what remained of the First Precinct was moved to Ericsson Place, which was then designated the First Precinct.
Though this was front page news at the time, the episode is not likely to make its way into a display at the Police Museum.
"That's just one thing that happened at the First Precinct," Mrs. Safir said. "I'd like to think that there were millions of successful investigations and happy endings to problems that were solved in the First Precinct. I'm seeing the glass as 99 percent full. And I think that's how most New Yorkers see the department and policemen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The former station house on Old Slip in Lower Manhattan, which was the headquarters of the First Precinct from 1909 until 1973, will be the new home of the New York City Police Museum. The exhibits will include old police uniforms, now on display at the museum's smaller space on lower Broadway, and a squad car from the early 1970's. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); THEATER (73%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%) POLICE 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY POLICE MUSEUM 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



813 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: As Audiences Discover Frugality, Pop Culture Starts Feeling a Chill 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 30 

 BODY:
Business is good at the Cactus Bar in downtown Chicago, but only because it's bad elsewhere.
 "People come in for a couple of drinks with their friends because they don't want to shell out for the big movies and concerts," said Naresh Nair, manager of the Cactus. "Dropping $50 for a night at the movies or $200 for a couple of concert tickets just isn't realistic anymore. The time when people spent that kind of money for a night out is over." 
 This is a long, cool summer in much of the entertainment world. Concert tours are being curtailed or postponed, with performers like Rod Stewart playing to rows of empty seats. 
Highly touted films like "Pearl Harbor" have had disappointing runs.
The closest the book industry has come to a summer page-turner is an unwieldy biography of a founding father. Ticket sales on Broadway are flat and would be down if not for two sell-out shows, "The Producers" and "The Lion King."
"When things slow down, everything slows down," said Jeff Dorenfeld, who teaches music business at the Berklee College of Music in Boston. "Prices keep going up, but there's less money to go around. It's affecting the whole industry."
Interviews across the country in recent days suggest that people are spending more time outdoors or at home this summer.
Some statistics support that conclusion. Television ratings, video rentals and sales of computer games are all up over last summer.
The film industry, which had been holding its collective breath hoping for a midsummer hit to pull it out of a flat season, finally had one last weekend with "Planet of the Apes." It took in $69.5 million between Friday and Sunday, the biggest nonholiday three-day opening in history. 
But that success follows a number of expensive and heavily marketed disappointments, including some movies, like "A.I." and "Jurassic Park III," which did well the first weekend and then mysteriously plunged in subsequent weeks. "Jurassic Park," for example, did about half as much business its second weekend as it had done in its first.
One reason for the doldrums may be the slumping economy.
Money has becomes tighter, but prices for entertainment have continued to rise. Concert tickets often cost more than $50 and can run beyond $200, hardcover novels routinely cost at least $25, and more cinemas are approaching the $10-a-ticket level. 
Some people cite other factors, including the conviction that there are simply not that many good movies out there. The studios appear obsessed with appealing to teenagers, who might see the same movie repeatedly, and they end up churning out junk as a result.
"They're telling the same story over and over," said Neha Vyas, a 28-year-old doctor in Houston. "I guess we've gotten to the age where we've seen so many movies that with some of these movies we're like, 'Wait a minute; this was the same movie that I saw five or 10 years ago but with a different character.' It's kind of boring."
Mr. Dorenfeld said that baby boomers were tired of seeing second-tier bands from the 1960's and 70's and that their children shifted allegiance from one band to another so quickly that new ones had trouble building fan loyalty. Lorraine Shanley, director of Market Partners International, a New York-based company that advises clients in the publishing industry, said that the "proliferation of media results in smaller pieces of the pie for everyone."
She added: "Everyone has noticed it. It's a doldrums period that's probably tied to the economy and everyone's fear of things getting worse. It may turn out to be just a blip in the long term, but the combination of indicators looks awfully coincidental."
Film executives said that one reason some films were doing well the first weekend of release and then fading was a change in distribution. With the spread of multiscreen cinemas, there tends to be a stampede the first weekend, and then the movie loses its buzz as a new one is offered. For instance, "A.I.," Steven Spielberg's science-fiction fantasy, grossed $29.4 million in its first weekend, which the trade paper Variety called respectable, but it took in less than half that much on its second weekend.
"No longer is this going to be a cavalcade of hits," Variety said in a front-page report. "Repeat business has been surprisingly scarce."
Among those who have forsaken the cinema in favor of television this summer is Max Sontos, a 27-year-old actor in Los Angeles, who said that after the expense and complications of his last trip to a movie theater, he would "rather just veg and watch TV." 
He is evidently not alone. According to Nielsen Media Research, all four major daytime cable networks and four of the five evening channels are attracting more viewers than they did last summer.
The video rental giant Blockbuster announced last week that its second-quarter revenue was $1.23 billion, up from $1.21 billion for the same period last year. Sales of video game hardware, software and accessories are running 28 percent ahead of last year.
Although none of this has led film executives to panic, several have concluded that they, like concert promoters and booksellers, need to assess a rapidly changing marketplace.
"We worry about rising costs, about what it takes to break through in a cluttered market and promote our pictures," said Jeff Blake, president of worldwide distribution and marketing for Sony Pictures. "We need to be sure that we're still able to provide an entertainment evening at a relatively low cost. The movie business is not in a bad place yet, but we need to adjust to changes that are apparent this summer."
Other film executives share Mr. Blake's cautious confidence. "Traditionally the film business is recession-proof because it's the cheapest form of entertainment outside the home," said Rob Friedman, vice chairman of the Paramount motion picture group.
"If there's a good movie, people will come to see it. At worst we'll be flat when it comes to the end of the year."
Whatever the cause of the summer slowdown in some branches of the entertainment business, it is sending ripples of concern through the industry.
Concert promoters trade stories like the one about 'N Sync, by some standards the world's hottest band, which tried to match last summer's two nights at a stadium in Washington but could sell enough tickets to fill the stadium only once. Some bands are also finding record sales flat.
"Nobody is doing the numbers that they did last year," said JC Chasez, a member of 'N Sync.
That is not entirely true. People are still standing in line to get tickets to "The Producers" on Broadway. They are still willing to pay top dollar to see highly popular performers like Madonna, whose average ticket price this summer is about $125. The success of "Shrek" and "Planet of the Apes" shows that it is still possible to draw large numbers of people to movie houses, and that of "The Producers" reflects the possibilities of Broadway. Below that top level, however, consumer resistance now sets in fast.
Even the Rolling Stones are feeling the pinch. According to reports published in Britain, they had planned to tour the United States and other countries next year to celebrate their 40th anniversary and the "last blowout" for Mick Jagger and Keith Richards before they turn 60. But the band's marketing advisers are said to have recommended that the tour be canceled or postponed.
In the first six months of this year, according to figures published in the trade journal Pollstar, the top 50 concert tours took in 12.6 percent less money than last year's top 50. The number of tickets sold was off by 15.5 percent in that period.
"A two-million-ticket drop is not insubstantial," Pollstar's editor, Gary Bongiovanni, said. "The conventional wisdom is that the entertainment business is recession-proof, and with inexpensive forms of entertainment that's still true. But since the last recession in 1991, the cost of our product has more than doubled. What used to be an inconsiderable expense is becoming a luxury item."
Music promoters in many parts of the country are seeing considerable drops in business. Lori LeFavor, owner of Infinite Productions in Seattle, said this was the worst summer she could recall in 16 years of promoting concerts.
"Every club I've talked to has actually said it's been a horrible summer," Ms. LeFavor said. "I think that the economy is definitely in a slump. But it's interesting; in the past whenever there's been a recession, the music industry is always the last to be hit."
The publishing industry is also being affected, with dealers returning larger numbers of unsold books than usual. Among the few bright spots are David McCullough's biography of John Adams and books by Eudora Welty and Katharine Graham, whose recent deaths have stirred interest in their work. Sales of hardcover novels, which are often staples for summer vacation, are surprisingly slow.
Even theme parks are facing a difficult summer. Some, like those in the Six Flags chain, have maintained or even increased attendance by offering discounts. Others are losing customers; a report from Merrill Lynch last week said attendance at Walt Disney parks was down by 6 to 8 percent.
There are some notable exceptions to this summer's entertainment slowdown. Attendance at baseball games is strong in many cities (although woeful in places like Tampa Bay), and good weather has brought crowds to music festivals like Ravinia near Chicago and Tanglewood in the Berkshires.
"People who attend cultural events like dance, theater and classical music, events that are not in the category of pop entertainment, are very dedicated over the long term," said Ella Baff, executive director of Jacob's Pillow, the nation's leading summer dance festival, which is also doing well. "If the appeal of this kind of cultural experience is still strong, and if baseball and other sports are still strong, maybe it's because they speak to patterns and habits and commitments instead of being in the category of novelty or one-time acts."
She continued: "I also wonder if large-scale events have lost some of their luster. Maybe after years and years, mega-stadium events and blockbuster movies just aren't that compelling anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Naresh Nair, manager of the Cactus Grill in Chicago, says his business is good because many people seem to be staying away from high-priced rock concerts, movies and other entertainment events this summer. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)(pg. C15) Chart: "Summer Tours Cool Off"Concert attendance and revenue for May, June and most of July were down this year while ticket prices continued to rise steadliy. Charts shows gross sales, tickets sold and average ticket price since 1991.(Souce: Amusement Business)(pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); TICKET SALES (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); MOVIE THEATERS (74%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (69%); LITERATURE (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (68%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); THEATER (57%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%) ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TELEVISION; THEATER; MOTION PICTURES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MUSIC; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



814 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
The Could've-Beens And the Contenders

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass 

 BODY:
With just about a third of the season left, look at the teams that have reasserted themselves: the Yankees and the Atlanta Braves.
 The development should not come as a surprise, but it must to some people because there are those who were certain the Braves had reached the end of their remarkable run and those who thought the Yankees were getting old and vulnerable. They were wrong on both counts. 
 This is not to say those two teams have clinched their perennial playoff positions; on the other hand, it would not be wise to bet against them. 
The Braves have faced any number of obstacles in pursuit of their unprecedented 10th consecutive division championship, including the merger of their owner, Time Warner, with AOL and the economic consequences of it.
John Smoltz lasted only five starts into his comeback from elbow surgery before he had to shut down. He has now returned as a relief pitcher. Greg Maddux and Tom Glavine had to deal with a new strike zone that put a crimp in their pitching styles. Kevin Millwood has only recently returned from a shoulder ailment. The replacement for first baseman Andres Galarraga, Rico Brogna, provided good defense but no punch. Shortstop Rafael Furcal was lost for the season with a shoulder injury.
The Braves had played nearly the first third of the season and they had a losing record. The Philadelphia Phillies were suddenly the hot new team in the National League East, and the Marlins, especially after they changed managers, were lurking in Florida's swampland of Major League Baseball, their young players threatening to make the Braves look old.
The Braves tumbled as far as eight games from first and were still four and a half games out six weeks ago. Then they met the Mets. They wore the same uniform as the team that beat the Braves to the N.L. pennant and the World Series last year, but the Mets were not the same team. A three-game sweep later, the Braves were on their way. Beginning with that series, they have won 23 of 34 games (a winning percentage that would compute to 109 victories for an entire season) and have dramatically grabbed hold of first place and have built a three-game lead.
After the Mets lost three games to the Braves, the Phillies did, too, and they had the very definite look of a team that was teetering on the precipice of a definitive fall. Starting with the sweep by the Braves, the Phillies have won 15 and lost 17. They have also lost their two-and-a-half-game lead and had their problems punctuated with three losses to the Mets this past weekend in New York.
The Marlins have made a couple of moves toward the top in the past six weeks, but after closing to two games from the top on June 27, they lost a five-game series to the Phillies, beginning an 11-16 stretch that has dropped them seven and a half games behind the Braves.
Just beyond the middle of June, the Yankees found themselves four games from the spot they have owned most of the past five seasons. The deficit was relatively small, but it provided skeptics with enough reason to begin a dirge. The Yankees are dead; long live the Yankees.
Well, if not exactly dead, old. Yes, the veteran team had become an old team. Paul O'Neill was retiring before our very eyes. Hurry up and get Nick Johnson ready for first base because Tino Martinez could not do the job anymore. Trade Chuck Knoblauch? By all means.
David Justice and Orlando Hernandez were on the disabled list, Derek Jeter and Scott Brosius couldn't field ground balls anymore, and the Yankees' failure to find a suitable replacement for reliever Jeff Nelson was proving to be fatal.
The Yankees have won 22 of their last 30 games, winning many of them in an explosive manner. They rested yesterday with a three-and-a-half-game lead in the American League East and an eight-game winning streak in which they have slugged 20 home runs and 28 doubles.
O'Neill and Martinez, as well as Bernie Williams and Jorge Posada, are hitting home runs and driving in runs. O'Neill, the newest member of AARP, has 19 stolen bases, only one short of his career high, which he achieved way back in 1989, when he was a mere child of 26.
The Boston Red Sox are not far enough back for the Yankees to go into cruise control. Indeed, with Nomar Garciaparra and Bret Saberhagen having made dramatic returns the past few days, the Red Sox could continue to be a pestiferous challenger. They have faced as much adversity as anyone this season and have overcome it admirably. If the Red Sox had any thought of firing their manager, Jimy Williams, he has made it impossible for them to do it. He has done his job in manager-of-the-year fashion.
But there is always the wild-card berth for the Red Sox. The Yankees have served notice that, like the Braves, they are prepared to take command of the division race and win it going away.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Greg Maddux of the Braves got off to a slow start this season, but has adjusted to the new strike zone that had put a crimp in his pitching style. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); ATHLETES (74%); SPORTS INJURIES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%) BASEBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES 

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (54%) NEW YORK YANKEES; ATLANTA BRAVES 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



815 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Software: Adobe May Not Meet Forecast 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News (Compiled by Gary Bradford) 

 BODY:
 Adobe Systems Inc., the largest maker of graphics-design software, may not meet its fiscal third-quarter sales forecast as the United States and Asian economies slow. 
Adobe expects to meet its profit estimate, excluding some costs, in the quarter ending Aug. 31, the company said yesterday in a statement. Sales of all products may lag because of "weaker than expected" economic conditions. Sales of Adobe's Photoshop picture-editing software slowed as corporate and graphics customers delayed purchases on concern that economic growth will not pick up, the chief executive, Bruce Chizen, said in June. Shares of Adobe fell $2.52, to $40.84, yesterday after dropping as low as $38.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows Adobe Systems stock progress since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (88%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); EXECUTIVES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) SALES 

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (98%); ADB (FRA) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



816 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Europe: Britain: Victory For Subway Privatization 

BYLINE:  By Warren Hoge (NYT) 

 BODY:
 A High Court judge ruled that the government can impose a $18.5 billion privatization plan for the London subway. 
The plan has been condemned as costly and unsafe by the London Transport commissioner, Robert R. Kiley, an American credited with rescuing systems in New York and Boston. Justice Jeremy Sullivan found against Mayor Ken Livingstone, who argued that the Government could not force him to accept a proposal "incompatible" with his obligation to run a "safe, integrated, efficient and economic" network. Any appeal would be heard in September. Warren Hoge (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); JUDGES (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; PRIVATIZATION 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN; KILEY, ROBERT R 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) LONDON (ENG); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



817 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Final Fuel Economy Report Less Optimistic Than Draft
As the House prepares to debate how much the fuel economy of new vehicles should be improved, a federal panel produced a carefully hedged report saying that considerable gains were possible but might pose safety risks.
 The final report is less optimistic about the opportunities for improving fuel economy than a draft report that the panel sent to nine outside reviewers three weeks ago. Page C4. 

GE Capital to Buy Finance Company
General Electric's financial services subsidiary, GE Capital, said that it had agreed to buy Heller Financial for $5.3 billion in cash. Heller, based in Chicago, provides commercial finance, equipment leasing and real estate finance to a wide range of small to midsize companies in the United States and Europe. Shares of Heller rose $17.09, to $52.99. C6.

Voices From Beyond the Grave
AT&T Labs will start selling speech software that it says is so good at reproducing the sounds and intonations of a human voice that it can recreate unique voices and even bring the voices of dead celebrities back to life. A1.

Flat Summer for Show Business
It's a long, cool summer in much of the entertainment world. Concert tours are being curtailed or postponed, heavily promoted films have had disappointing runs, the closest the book industry has come to a page-turner is an unwieldy biography of a founding father, and Broadway ticket sales are flat. A1.

'Code Red' Prepares to Return
The rogue computer program known as Code Red, which infected an estimated 350,000 computers on July 19 and then went dormant, has a digital version of a life cycle and is about to strike again, computer security experts and federal officials warned. C2.

Stocks Edge Lower in Dull Trading
Stocks fell in lackluster trading as three of Wall Street's top strategists cut their year-end profit estimates for America's biggest companies. The Nasdaq composite index fell 11.23 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,017.84, and the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 14.95 points, to 10,401.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 1.3 points, to 1,204.52. C8.

Investor Favor Wanes for Pearson
Just a year ago, shares of Pearson, the British publisher, were soaring. Under Marjorie Scardino, who joined Pearson as chief executive in January 1997, Pearson was seen to be shedding dull businesses, buying faster-growing assets and embracing an online future. But Pearson's stock has plummeted 53 percent from its peak in March 2000, and Mrs. Scardino's appetite for deals has found less favor among investors. Mrs. Scardino dismisses those doubts. "The markets are skeptical of media companies these days," she said. "But you are never as good or as bad as people think you are." World Business, Section W.

Computer Associates Countersued
The billionaire Sam Wyly, who is seeking to take control of Computer Associates, sued the company in response to a lawsuit that Computer Associates had filed against him. C6.

Write-Off Is Expected at Verizon
Verizon Communications is expected to write down a large part of a $1.7 billion investment it made in Metromedia Fiber, which builds fiber-optic networks in metropolitan areas, people close to the companies said. C2.

Lincoln National Prepares to Shop
Soon to be flush with cash from the sale of its volatile reinsurance business to Swiss Re for $2.5 billion, Lincoln National said that it was on the prowl for acquisitions. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,401.72 down 14.95Nasdaq composite -- 2,017.84 down 11.2310-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.10% up 0.01The euro -- $0.8749 down 0.0014The dollar -- 125.11 yen up 1.77 Graph: "TODAY" shows Personal IncomeJune figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Chart shows Heller Financial's stock progress since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); VOICE RECOGNITION (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CELEBRITIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (70%); SALES & SELLING (68%); PUBLISHING (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (92%); PEARSON PLC (81%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (92%); GEC (LSE) (92%); GE (SWX) (92%); GE (NYSE) (92%); PSON (LSE) (81%); PSO (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: MARJORIE SCARDINO (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



818 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: Without a Lawyer; 
Chain of Legal Self-Help Centers Is Expanding Across U.S.

BYLINE:  By CRYSTAL NIX HINES 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 27 

 BODY:
The signs in the store window are eye-catching: "No Lawyers, Save Money." "Divorce: $189-$349." "Bankruptcy: $199." Incorporation: $399." "Living Trust $399."
 They are an invitation to walk into We the People here, one of more than 60 franchises in 11 states that have been crucial in turning do-it-yourself legal assistance into a fast-growing business. Some 60 more stores are in various stages of opening. 
 Ira Distenfield, chairman of the umbrella company, We the People Forms and Service Centers USA Inc. -- based in Santa Barbara, Calif., with a name drawn from the preamble to the United States Constitution -- said the franchises did not offer legal advice but simply put information provided by clients on the proper legal forms for filing. 
"We're offering people the ability to represent themselves with the impediments removed," he said.
The company's approach is not new; independent paralegals have helped litigants fill out forms for years. But what makes We The People different is its highly visible and expanding national presence.
The franchises are not anti-lawyer, Mr. Distenfield added, but are aimed at people with uncontested legal matters who can bypass the profession to, say, get a simple divorce or arrange a personal bankruptcy. "People with those kinds of matters," he said, "shouldn't be denied legal access because they can't pay the freight of an attorney."
But state bar officials and other experts say that the line between "information gathering" and "legal advice" is illusory. They have accused the stores and other document preparation concerns of engaging in fraud and the unauthorized practice of law -- a standard that varies from state to state. The Illinois State Bar Association and a former client filed suit in March against an Illinois franchise owner, and other state bars are investigating complaints of illegal practices.
"People want affordable legal services, but this isn't the place," said Herbert H. Franks, whose term as president of the Illinois State Bar Association just ended.
Mr. Distenfield disputes the claims against his company, though he acknowledges that the services are controversial. "Every state bar in the country wants us out of town," he said, "but we're here to stay."
The debate over how far nonlawyers can go to help people represent themselves has intensified as more and more people, disaffected with lawyers and the high cost of legal fees, are opting to do so.
Although national statistics are limited, studies in some jurisdictions estimate that 60 percent to 90 percent of people suing over domestic- relations matters represent themselves. Experts say there has also been a big increase in self-representation in landlord-tenant, bankruptcy and small claims matters.
Mr. Distenfield, a former stockbroker and a president of the Port of Los Angeles under Mayor Tom Bradley, is no stranger to controversy or the law. In 1989 he resigned his port post amid allegations that he improperly helped an investment bank he worked for obtain a city hall contract. The next year he was sued by some Los Angeles city commissioners, who contended that he misappropriated their investments in a limited partnership. Mr. Distenfield denied any impropriety in either instance; the matters were ultimately not pursued.
He also had an unhappy experience with high-priced lawyers while going through a divorce in 1986. He said that the opposing lawyers fueled the acrimony, and that after negotiations dragged on for more than a year -- racking up $100,000 in legal fees -- he and his former wife met at a restaurant and worked out a settlement "on the back of a napkin."
A 1991 Chapter 7 bankruptcy with his second wife, Linda, cost him $40,000 in legal fees, which he said "left a terrible taste in my mouth."
Such experiences, he said, underscore the need for economical alternatives that allow people to retain control over their legal matters.
The couple bought We the People in December 1993 from a Florida woman who had founded the operation in 1985 and had run it out of her trailer. They took the concept and the license, and opened their Santa Barbara store. Their first customer arrived on Valentine's Day in 1994, seeking, of all things, a divorce. The store, they said, had 500 customers its first year, encouraging them to expand.
Adorned in red, white and blue, the stores collectively bring in nearly 5,000 new customers a month, company officials say, and last year they helped prepare and file papers for more than 18,000 bankruptcies, 15,000 divorces, 10,000 living trusts and 6,000 incorporations. They generated more than $6 million in revenue last year, and Mr. Distenfield expects a 30 percent increase this year. The Santa Barbara store alone, which the Distenfields run themselves, had revenue of more than $600,000 last year, and the umbrella company earned about $4 million from franchise and processing fees.
The Distenfields sell the franchises for $89,500. Owners are given training, workbooks and questionnaires for about 100 different types of legal matters, as well as prepackaged television spots. They also get access to centralized processing centers where paralegals enter the information clients provide onto court forms and then send them back to the stores for signatures and filing. The umbrella company charges a 25 percent processing fee.
A variety of other document preparation concerns have sprung up in the last few decades. They range from tiny home-based operations to larger efforts like Nolo of Berkeley, Calif., which began producing self-help legal books 30 years ago and now offers 150 products, and LegalZoom.com, an online company introduced this spring whose founders include Robert L. Shapiro, one of O. J. Simpson's lawyers during his murder trial.
Deborah L. Rhode, a Stanford Law School professor, said there was a huge demand for such services because "lawyers have priced themselves out of the market and low-income people are left without an alternative."
Cost was the primary reason Michelle Browhaw of Los Angeles decided to use We the People. After being intimidated by the forms and the process when she tried to file for a divorce by herself, Ms. Browhaw went to a lawyer who charged her $100 for a consultation and wanted a $2,500 retainer. With We The People, her divorce will cost $349 plus the $194 filing fee.
"They'll get the same results," she said.
Such assertions are precisely what disturb lawyers who say that some document preparers are misleading consumers by claiming to be able to handle matters far beyond their competence.
In their suit against the We the People center in Crystal Lake, Ill., and its owner, Steven Tracy, the Illinois State Bar Association and a plastic surgeon, Dean Manus, contend that Mr. Tracy unlawfully gave Dr. Manus legal advice and engaged in consumer fraud when the doctor sought help for his uncontested divorce last year and Mr. Tracy hired a lawyer to appear in court on Dr. Manus' behalf without his knowledge.
Michael A. Stiegel, a Chicago lawyer who represents the umbrella company, said that Mr. Tracy had "no intention of engaging in the practice of law." The franchise, he said, had tried unsuccessfully to reach Dr. Manus about his scheduled divorce hearing, and then sent a supervising lawyer to seek a continuance.
In Pennsylvania, the bar association's Unauthorized Practice of Law Committee contends a We the People franchisee is offering legal advice without a license, and has referred the matter to state prosecutors. William F. Hoffmeyer, co-chairman of the committee, said the bar association had "gotten a number of claims from individuals who had gotten involved with the organization and had to be extricated from the situation they were put in."
Mr. Hoffmeyer said his committee fielded 20 to 30 complaints a month about a variety of nonlawyer document preparers. He disputed We the People's contention that many divorces are simple. Some spouses, he said, do not contest out of duress and should be referred to counseling, while others think their matter is straightforward only to learn, upon investigation, that their spouses are hiding significant assets. 
Similarly, he said, document preparers "act as if anyone can prepare a will," when in fact clients need legal expertise on such matters as disbursement of assets, child custody and even the manner in which they wish to be buried.
"What would happen if the same number of unlicensed people advertised that they could do brain surgery or dentistry?" he asked.
Mr. Distenfield said it was not his company's role to engage in protracted discussions with clients or advise them on whether their legal matters were well founded. "We do what we're asked to do, and we're not going to counsel them as to whether it is or is not appropriate," he said.
He said that certain legal matters might require a lawyer, conceding, in fact, that he and his wife hired one instead of using We the People for their own complex Chapter 13 bankruptcy filing in 1995.
The company retains supervising lawyers in each state the franchises operate -- Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, New Jersey, Nevada, North Carolina and Pennsylvania -- to answer clients' legal questions at no additional cost, according to the general counsel, Jason E. Searns.
Mr. Distenfield argues that the legal profession's real objection to the company's services is economic. He pulled out a calculator and estimated that the approximately 3,300 customers his Santa Barbara store served last year saved $2.9 million that would have gone to lawyers' fees.
Professor Rhode agrees that lawyers are trying to protect their monopoly, and says they fear that such services are a "concession that a lot of what lawyers do isn't much different from what legal secretaries do."
Many lawyers say they are just trying to protect the public.
Roderic Duncan, a retired judge for the Superior Court of California, Alameda County, says those most at risk of being victims are low-income, unsophisticated consumers. One provider who had prepared documents for people appearing before the judge was so bad, he said, that he reported the man to state authorities. The man was ultimately convicted of the unauthorized practice of law.
The California Legislature passed a law in 1988 requiring document preparers to have minimal qualifications and to obtain a state license. But most states leave providers unregulated.
To address the need for affordable, competent assistance, many bar groups and other nonprofit concerns have jumped in with services like telephone help lines or referrals to arbitrators or low-cost lawyers. More recently, some courts have started programs of their own.
In California, said Bonnie Hough, a senior attorney in the courts administrator's office, every county has facilitators for people representing themselves in domestic-relations matters, and there are three pilot family law information centers. Ventura and Fresno have roving self-help centers, Winnebagos that roll into low-income communities to provide free legal assistance.
Arizona has also been a leader in offering help, including 150 kiosks throughout the state with information about court proceedings, legal forms and instructions, said Gordon H. Griller, court administrator for the Superior Court of Arizona in Maricopa County.
Whatever the concerns about the private document preparation services, the customers keep on coming.
On one recent Saturday, a steady stream of people filed into the Los Angeles We the People franchise. Imelda Rojas was there for a divorce. Larry Coleman wanted to file a complaint over a $190,000 house he had recently bought.
The store would help him while lawyers he had approached were not interested, he said. Besides, he added, this was the cheapest fee he could find.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ira and Linda Distenfield outside their We the People legal document service center in Santa Barbara, Calif. (Photographs by Kim Kulish/Saba, for The New York Times); The price list for pursuing various proceedings are a big feature of the decor of the exterior office of a We the People self-help legal service center on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles. (pg. C1); Sabine Philippi-Baehr, center, manager of a We the People store in Verona, N.J., talks with two customers, Lenin McFarlane and Donna Brown. The company has more than 60 stores in 11 states. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. C16) Chart: "Do It Yourself"Several companies offer legal document preparation services, but We the People is the first to set up a chain of franchises to help individuals pursue legal matters on their own. Chart shows location of We the People throughout the United States.(Source: We the People)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); PARALEGALS (78%); FRANCHISEES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LEGAL ETHICS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); STATISTICS (60%) LEGAL PROFESSION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: WE THE PEOPLE FORMS & SERVICE CENTERS USA INC (84%); WE THE PEOPLE CONGRESS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WE THE PEOPLE FORMS AND SERVICE CENTERS USA INC 

PERSON: DISTENFIELD, IRA; HINES, CRYSTAL NIX 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2001 



819 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Finance Unit Will Acquire Heller Financial for $5.3 Billion 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
General Electric's financial services subsidiary, GE Capital, said yesterday that it had agreed to buy Heller Financial for $5.3 billion in cash, or $53.75 a share. 
 Based in Chicago, Heller Financial provides commercial finance, equipment leasing and real estate finance to small to midsize companies in the United States and Europe. 
 Heller's stock price soared on the news. On the New York Stock Exchange, the shares rose nearly 50 percent, closing at $52.99, up $17.09. G.E.'s shares fell $1.05, to $43.60. 
Founded in 1919 to finance auto purchases, Heller did not offer its shares to the public until 1998. 
"We have known Heller Financial for a long time," Dennis Nayden, GE Capital's chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call to announce the deal. "It is well run, with great people and many former GE Capital people. Fundamentally, they have built a franchise around the small to middle-market customer, companies with revenues from $5 million to $250 million. That is the fastest growth market in the world." 
The purchase will increase GE Capital's assets by $20 billion, to $390 billion. Mr. Nayden said he expected Heller to contribute at least $250 million to GE Capital's profit in the first year and $1 billion in earnings over the next three years. 
"Heller is a logical extension of core businesses at GE Capital like equipment financing and vendor financing," said Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst at Prudential Securities. 
"It is a business that has a tremendous health care finance business in the United States, and General Electric has the leverage to expand this across Europe with its GE Medical subsidiary." 
Fuji Bank Ltd., which owns 52 percent of Heller Financial's equity and controls 77 percent of its voting stock, has agreed to tender all of its shares, GE Capital said. The deal is subject to regulatory approval in the United States and Europe. Mr. Nayden said he expected the transaction to close by the end of the year. 
Objections from the European Commission scuttled General Electric's planned $46 billion takeover of Honeywell International. But analysts said they did not anticipate trouble on this deal with regulators, because G.E. has a fairly small share of the European financial services market. 
GE Capital, which has grown through acquisitions, made unsuccessful overtures earlier this year for two other finance companies, Finova Group, which was sold to a group led by Berkshire Hathaway, and CIT, which Tyco International bought in March. 
"GE Capital had the money in the bank to have bought either Finova or CIT, but Honeywell sort of suspended animation at the company for a while," said Jeanne Terrile, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. 
"It's a good thing for GE Capital to be back in the acquisition game. General Electric depends on GE Capital to grow, and acquisitions are part of that growth." 
At a premium of 50 percent over Friday's closing stock price, GE Capital's offer seems rich. But Ms. Terrile and other analysts said the offer was fair.
"They paid a price that someone is not going to try to counter," said John Inch, an analyst at Bear, Stearns. "General Electric is very much a value buyer. They don't go out and pay big multiples for companies. And it is probably a fair statement to say that Heller, on balance, has a slightly higher-quality portfolio than either Finova or CIT." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); APPROVALS (66%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); EXECUTIVES (54%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%); GE HEALTHCARE (85%); FUJI BANK LTD (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (54%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HELLER FINANCIAL INC; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; GE CAPITAL CORP; FUJI BANK LTD 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%); TYC (NYSE) (54%); HON (NYSE) (52%); HON (LSE) (52%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (54%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%) SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL; 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



820 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: El Bolson Journal; 
Patagonian Woodstock Suffers From Popularity

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: EL BOLSON, Argentina, July 26 

 BODY:
The aging hippies, who came to this rustic Patagonian town to grow their own fruits and vegetables, make their own handicrafts and escape the repression of bygone military governments still wear beards, beads and ponytails.
 The local brewery still produces cherry and raspberry beer. A large wooden sign in the central plaza still proclaims El Bolson as the first "non-nuclear zone" in South America. Restaurants still serve macrobiotic food. And the artisans' market is still probably the best place in all of southern Argentina to buy pottery, pan-flute CD's, energizing crystals and homemade candles, perfume and skin cream. 
 But El Bolson's days as the mecca of the Argentine counterculture may be coming to an end. The enemy, not surprisingly, is development.
El Bolson no longer looks like a town of gingerbread chalets that dropped out of a Swiss sky. Unplanned, explosive population growth is deforesting the magnificent snow-covered mountain ridges on either side of the town and polluting nearby river and streams, which used to carry crystalline mountain waters.
The main street, Avenida San Martin, is beginning to look like a strip mall. There are still no traffic lights, but there are plans to put in speed bumps.
All these signs of conventional progress are making residents nervous.
"I came here 20 years ago to live in a place where I could dress as I like, grow my own crops and build my own home," recalled Agustin Porro, 56, a leather craftsman, as he polished a belt buckle in the artisans' market the other day. "I'm still a South American hippie, but every year more people come, and pretty soon we are going to lose it all."
No more than 4,000 people lived in El Bolson when flower power bloomed here in the 1970's, just a bit after the youth rebellions in the United States and Europe. The town was so isolated that residents had to walk to the post office to make a phone call and turn to a Chilean radio station for the news. 
By 1991 the town had grown to 12,600 people. It now has 22,000, according to city government officials, making it one of the fastest growing towns in Argentina.
The local government cannot keep up with the expansion of squatters' log-cabin settlements, and ever more people must go without electricity and drinkable water. The unemployment rate has soared over 30 percent.
And as the town struggles to define its future, divisions are tearing the community apart. Lifelong residents, the descendants of earlier Spanish, Italian, German and Ukrainian immigrants, have turned against the hippies and their way of life, even though many of the social problems arrived with more recent settlers.
Lawsuits are being filed against restaurants that play loud rock music or jazz. Store owners are pressing the town to collect taxes from the artisans. And conservative parents have been pressing local schools to fire teachers they consider to be subversive in their lifestyles. 
One parent asked the border police to punish a teacher for allowing the students to sing a rock version of the Argentine national anthem.
A recent tourism study by a Buenos Aires consultant fired up a conflict when it proposed that El Bolson shed its hippie image to attract more affluent tourists who might fear that their children could be attracted to drugs if they came here. 
Angry letters to the editor were traded over the study, and an assembly of residents broke down in a shouting match. One longhaired artisan went to a human rights organization to file a complaint when a local newspaper published his picture over an insulting caption.
El Bolson's problems in part reflect the radical changes occurring in small-town life across Latin America as rural peasants find it increasingly difficult to make a living and move to larger population centers to find new opportunities.
The most recent explosion in El Bolson's population was caused mainly by a fall in wool prices during the last two decades that forced many sheep herders into larger towns across Patagonia. Then, in the early 1990's, when the government privatized the railroads, several lines were shut down and dozens of Patagonian villages that depended on rail traffic were abandoned.
In addition, the traditional stream of alienated middle-class young people from Buenos Aires and other large cities accelerated during the last three years of recession as urban jobs became scarcer.
"We're bombarded by the social and economic crisis that is plaguing the rest of the country," said Juan Carlos Bahlaj, 52, owner of the local brewery.
To stem the tide, Mayor Sergio Wisky proposed a radical solution in May, one that would prohibit anyone from moving to El Bolson without first having a job. 
The town council refused to approve the ordinance, on the ground that the Constitution guarantees freedom of movement. But Mr. Wisky succeeded in getting people's attention, even attracting coverage from the national press about the pressures forced on small towns by the growing wave of rural migration.
"I wanted to inspire a national debate about what kind of society we want: one that grows without control or one that controls its growth," said the soft-spoken 35-year-old mayor. "We have what amounts to a new town every year, and that complicates not only the environment but our social life."
With his ordinance idea defeated, Mr. Wisky is now experimenting with other projects, like promoting forestry and tourism and a factory to make herbal teas and oils.
But El Bolson's widening divisions do not make governing easy.
Widespread tax evasion and noisy public assemblies over late garbage collection and unresponsive bureaucrats have brought the downfall of a succession of mayors. One aide to Mr. Wisky characterized the politics here as anarcho-fantasy.
Mr. Wisky is the eighth mayor since 1995, and after one year and eight months in office, he said, "I cross the days off on the calendar every day I am in office, like a prisoner in jail." "There is still time to save this place," he said. "Otherwise, our place of dreams will become a place of nightmares."

GRAPHIC: Photo: El Bolson has attracted the artsy in growing numbers since the 70's. At left, Mario, 30, and Roxana, 27, danced the tango at an arts and crafts fair. But population growth has made the village a victim of its own success, suffering from pollution, overcrowding, unemployment and a main street that has come to resemble a strip mall. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times) Map of Argentina highlighting El Bolson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); BEER & ALE (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); CITIES (73%); BREWERIES (72%); POWER FAILURES (71%); RETAILERS (66%); POP & ROCK (61%); LITIGATION (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%) HIPPIES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; POPULATION; AIR POLLUTION 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%)

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHILE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (73%); GERMANY (67%) ARGENTINA; EL BOSON (ARGENTINA)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



821 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: More Experts Grow Wary As the Dollar Keeps Rising 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30 

 BODY:
Is it time to rethink the strong dollar policy?
 The Bush administration says no. Although he has not completely convinced the financial markets that he means it, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, backed by the White House, has repeatedly insisted that he has no plans to intervene in the currency markets or to talk down the dollar, which has shot up this year against the euro and the Japanese yen. 
 But a growing number of economists -- never mind workers and executives in industries that are being squeezed by the strong currency -- say it is time to consider whether the dollar has risen to a level that could do more harm than good. 
They have two basic arguments. One is that the dollar is making exporters noncompetitive in international markets and hurting the bottom lines of multinational corporations when profits earned abroad are translated into dollars. The result is lost jobs and faltering stock prices at a time when the economy seems perilously balanced between recovery and recession.
The other is that the United States is running an unsustainably large current account deficit, and that at some point, market confidence in the dollar will collapse, harming the economy and the markets. In this view, pushing the dollar's value down in a controlled and gradual way would reduce the risk of a precipitous and destabilizing decline down the road.
The administration is likely to come under intensifying political pressure on the issue from exporters and other business groups in coming months, especially if reduced demand from abroad and intensifying global competition leads to a surge in layoffs. Influential groups like the National Association of Manufacturers and the American Farm Bureau Federation are already leaning on the White House to rethink the strong dollar policy.
There is speculation on Wall Street that the administration, while unlikely to intervene in the markets to push down the dollar, might not be unhappy to see it fall on its own. Some traders have even speculated that recent statements by President Bush that markets should set the dollar's value were code for a willingness on the administration's part to tolerate some weakening in the currency's value.
"The administration has made a fairly clear decision that it's not going to intervene to try to change exchange rates," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "I think, however, that if the market started pushing the dollar down, they probably would not intervene to stop it either."
But to weaken the dollar, actively or through neglect, would mean increasing the risks of inflation, as prices of imported goods rose. And economists said it could be harder to stop a decline in the dollar than to start one, meaning that abandoning or modifying current policy could risk turmoil in the financial markets.
Moreover, administration officials said it was fruitless for government to try to fight the collective judgment of the markets about the relative values of currencies. 
While intervention or an "open mouth policy" might temporarily drive the dollar down, they said, the dollar's value is ultimately going to reflect the economic strength and stability of the United States relative to Europe and Japan. And right now, investors judge the United States a better place to invest, creating a steady demand for dollars and dollar-denominated assets.
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has not shown any inclination to support an end to the strong dollar policy. And the current administration enjoys political cover from its predecessors in the Clinton administration, who formulated the policy and still support it.
"Modifying our strong dollar policy could adversely affect inflation, interest rates and capital inflows, and would lessen the favorability of our terms of exchange with the rest of the world," Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, told a Congressional hearing last week.
Yet after years in which there was widespread acceptance that the strong dollar was a big plus for the economy, economists are beginning to question that assumption.
In the long run, maintaining a stable economy might require "some strengthening of the euro and the yen relative to the dollar," said Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, at the same hearing.
A senior official of the International Monetary Fund who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the dollar was likely to fall at some point.
"Up until recently, the strong dollar has been desirable at the broad macroeconomic level for the U.S. economy and the global economy," he said. "But going forward, there may be problems, especially if the correction in the dollar that I believe can and will come proves rapid and disorderly."
David Malpass, chief international economist at Bear, Stearns, said policymakers should focus on the difference between halting the dollar's steady rise and pushing it down.
"The solution isn't a weak dollar," he said. "But it's also not the ever-strengthening dollar policy. So I'm trying to find a third way, which is for a strong and stable dollar."
In political terms, much of the debate is sure to center on lost jobs and orders at companies that cannot compete on prices with their European and Japanese competitors.
The strength of the dollar has greatly helped European and Asian automakers sell more cars in the United States, said Steve Beckman, an assistant director of the United Auto Workers union. The trade deficit in automotive products with Europe has risen to $22.8 billion last year from $9.8 billion five years ago, he said.
"The kind of growth in the trade deficit we've seen in the United States, which has been exacerbated by the increasing value of the dollar, has hurt American manufacturing workers in particular," Mr. Beckman said last week at a symposium sponsored by the Economic Strategy Institute, a research organization.
But economists are paying more attention to the longer-range problem of the interplay between the dollar and the current account deficit, which is a broad measure encompassing the balance of trade and the reliance of the United States on inflows of money from abroad. 
The current account deficit has been running at more than 4 percent of gross domestic product for the last few years, a level that historically has proved impossible for any nation to maintain. Despite the economic slowdown, the deficit is not falling substantially. 
Economists said there is a strong possibility that foreign investors will one day judge the deficit so large as to be a financial risk, and direct their money to other nations. If that were to happen, it could lead to a steep decline in the dollar, a sharp rise in inflation and severe problems for the American economy. 
"The time has probably come to scrap the so-called 'strong dollar' policy," said William C. Dudley, chief domestic economist at Goldman, Sachs. "To fail to do so now, when the demand for dollars is still strong, heightens the risk of a sharper adjustment later. It would not be pleasant if U.S. policy makers were forced to jettison the strong dollar policy under duress."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since February 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). (pg. C16) Chart: "The Price of a Strong Dollar"The strong dollar has made imports cheaper and exports more expensive, putting pressure lately on domestic manufacturing companies and contributing to the first downturn in industrial production in more than a decade. Chart shows index of trade weighed dollar, adjusted for inflation and index of total industrial production, seasonally adjusted since 1991.(Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Economic Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); EURO (77%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); IMPORT PRICES (67%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (66%) CURRENCY 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



822 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By James Barron with Amy Waldman 

 BODY:
New Milieu for a Fund-Raiser
JUNIOR VASQUEZ is an influential house-music D.J. whose home base used to be Twilo, the Chelsea club that law enforcement officials and MAYOR RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI labeled a public nuisance in 1998. The city won a three-year fight in May when the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court ordered Twilo to hand over its cabaret license, effectively putting the club out of business.
 Now Mr. Vasquez -- who performed at the Tunnel, another club plagued by drug arrests, in the 1990's -- has a new gig: MARK GREEN'S campaign for mayor. Mr. Vasquez is scheduled to perform at a fund-raiser for Mr. Green on Aug. 14, at xl, a new gay bar in Chelsea. 
 Mr. Green has already signaled that he would be less aggressive than Mr. Giuliani was in going after nightclubs. In May he said that he supported cracking down on clubs where there are "credible reports" of drug use or under-age drinking. But he also said he would try to balance the needs of neighborhoods with what he called the clubs' economic benefits.
While Mr. Vasquez has never been associated much with politics, he is a symbol of late-night life in New York. "He was a D.J. at Twilo, not an owner of Twilo -- he just worked there," a Green campaign spokesman said, "and he's quite a popular D.J."

Dinner Party, With Recipes
It was a dinner for friends of "Dinner With Friends," the made-for-HBO film based on Donald Margulies's Pulitzer Prize-winning play. Standing around the pool were GREG KINNEAR, and DENNIS QUAID, pictured with the hostess, ELLEN WRIGHT, as well as ANDIE MacDOWELL and the director NORMAN JEWISON. (Ms. MacDowell a little later knelt before a potbellied stove to keep warm on the unexpectedly chilly evening).
The recipes -- from hors d'oeuvres to entrees -- came from Mrs. Wright's cookbook "Bridgehampton Weekends: Easy Menus for Casual Entertaining" (William Morrow, 2000). The food came from Mrs. Wright's kitchen, because the party took place at her house in -- where else? -- Bridgehampton, N.Y. And the guests were given copies of the book as they left.
The dinner party was a Friday-evening prelude to a screening in Southampton on Saturday. That event was attended by many of the guests at Mrs. Wright's party, as well as by three of the stars of the HBO series "Sex and the City," KIM CATTRALL, KRISTIN DAVIS and CYNTHIA NIXON.
Word got out at the screening that the dinner-party guests had been given cookbooks. So on Sunday, an HBO executive appeared on Mrs. Wright's doorstep, saying that the stars from "Sex and the City" wanted the cookbook, too.
Her 7-year-old granddaughter was with her and had a question: "What is sex?"
"Nothing," Mrs. Wright said, promising the visitor she would send the books.

Waterlogged in Chappaqua
BILL CLINTON did not move everything into his new office on 125th Street yesterday. Several hundred books that he had planned to put on newly installed shelves there, including a 200-year-old copy of Thomas Jefferson's "Notes on the State of Virginia" and an autographed first edition of John F. Kennedy's "Profiles in Courage" were damaged last month in a flood in the Clintons' basement in Chappaqua, N.Y..
"He was really upset," his spokeswoman, JULIA PAYNE, said, adding that no one was home when the water rose.
As if the damage to the books is not upsetting enough, there is another problem: the Clintons' insurance will not pay for replacing them. The Clintons called in restorers from Argosy Books, at 116 East 59th Street, who went through several cartons of books that were already moldy and said that most were beyond repair and would have to be replaced.

A Jazzy New Home
WYNTON MARSALIS has found a new home in Harlem. Not the real estate kind, but the music kind.
On Friday night he stopped by the Renaissance Bar and Jazz Lounge, on the ground floor of the Sugar Hill Bistro, a restaurant to open next month in a refashioned town house on West 145th Street between Convent and Amsterdam Avenues. He ended up playing for almost three hours, at one point sharing the stage with one of the owners, DR. MICHAEL JONES, a trumpeter and a plastic surgeon. The other owners are another doctor, an engineer, and Dr. Jones's wife, CATHLEEN TRIGG, a reporter for WWOR-TV.
Mr. Marsalis said he would be back, often. "I'll be here swinging," he said, and he was, the very next night. With Amy Waldman

GRAPHIC: Photos (Joe Wright) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); MAYORS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL NUISANCE (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); NUISANCE (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (68%); LITERATURE (60%); UNDERAGE DRINKING (52%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; FINANCES; MOTION PICTURES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; MUSIC; JAZZ 

ORGANIZATION: ;RENAISSANCE BAR AND JAZZ LOUNGE (HARLEM) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (88%) BARRON, JAMES; WALDMAN, AMY; VASQUEZ, JUNIOR; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); CLINTON, BILL; MARSALIS, WYNTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: DINNER WITH FRIENDS (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



823 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2411 words

HEADLINE: From Behind-the-Scenes Triumphs to Visions of Changes at City Hall 

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from an interview with Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker and a Democratic candidate for mayor. The interview was conducted by editors and reporters of The New York Times, and it is the third in a planned series of interviews with each of the major candidates.

Q. You've heard the talk about this campaign: it's boring; nobody's interested; the city's in good shape; all the candidates are the same. Why should people get interested?

A. The only thing that separates me from them is the fact that this is my job, this is what I do. And I've been doing it for, you know, since 19 -- in a very serious way since 1989 and since 1986, since the day I was elected the vice chair. . . .
 The first thing I did was, I was the hottest meal ticket in town. Everyone was inviting me, all the C.E.O.'s, because no one knew what a speaker was. And so everyone said exactly the same thing: that unless you made the city safe, we're out of here.
So what I had to do was to convince David Dinkins that while at the same time we're cutting a budget by $2 billion we had to rebuild and reinforce the criminal justice, underline justice, system in the city of New York starting with police officers. It wasn't just the police officers, it was the assistant district attorneys, legal aid lawyers, probation officers, the entire gamut. And a youth program in every neighborhood.
David resisted that forcefully for a period of about six months. I introduced a bill. . . .

Q. The man who generally in the city gets credit for rebuilding the criminal justice system is not you, it's Mayor Giuliani.

A. That's because the mayor gets credit or blame for anything that happens in a city. My job as speaker is a kind of back-room job. I have to work at bringing a consensus, which is what I do very well. . . .
And the day that Mayor Giuliani was elected, we had the 10,000 additional police officers. He could not have made this a safe city without the tools to do it. He'd be the first one to admit that. . . .

Q. But does he deserve credit for the ----

A. He deserves credit for the management of the Police Department and the management of the city. I think he'll go down as a great manager. I think he's wrong. I think that we could do better than we're doing in terms of the policing of the city. I think that the gist of making the city safe was the presence of the police officers in every community. . . .
The mayor emphasizes apprehension and arrest and conviction. I think we'd do a lot better by preventing crimes from happening in the first place. And that's why you need a police presence in the community and that's what every single local legislator insisted on, from the council members to the assembly members to the senators. I want to see these cops. I want to see them in my community. . . .

Q. Tell us something about the differences.

A. Well, I think, in terms of the perception as well as in some cases the reality, that the mayor doesn't care about what goes on in minority districts. That's just a matter of his reaching out. . . .
So what I saw the mayor's biggest problem was lack of communication. It wasn't that he didn't want to do the right thing. It's just that he was being misinformed or misadvised as to how to handle ----

Q. Are you saying the same thing that Herman Badillo said last week sitting in that chair? That substantively he would govern as closely to the way Mayor Giuliani has governed as he could? That the differences would be stylistic?

A. I don't know if it's stylistic. Mine would be a lot of substantive changes. I was I saying I also have -- you know, he's been holding up the independent police investigation board, which I think you would never have a Louima case and brutality in the precinct if they knew there was an independent monitor.
There's a lot of things that I would implement immediately that this mayor hasn't. I'd go back to neighborhood policing, I certainly would set up an independent police investigation board, I certainly would have a situation so when an event happens it wouldn't just be the mayor and the police commissioner commenting on it, there would be independent people who would have credibility looking at this thing. . . .
We now face a public education crisis. Most people are giving up, saying you can't do anything about it. And that's nonsense. For 10 years I've been saying abolish this board of education, it doesn't make any sense. It's the most politicized body in the world. . . . Put educators in their place and have their financial accountability with the mayor and the City Council. That's the only way this thing would work. And that's a long-term goal which I will implement.
How will I implement it? By putting the focus on Albany, putting the focus on Albany where it belongs. Does anyone realize that the Board of Education is controlled by Albany? Does anyone realize the kind of power that Albany has to create and destroy what happens here in the City of New York? . . .

Q. Is that your diagnosis of the basic problem with the school system?

A. Yes. The basic problem with the school system is the comfortable relationship between the powers in Albany and the Board of Education in terms of political appointments: who's going to be a principal, who's going to be what. . . .

Q. How would you make sure that kids are learning?

A. How would I make sure? I would say -- the difference between me and some others is I know what I don't know. While I did teach, and my wife was a teacher, and my mother was a teacher, and I know a little bit about teaching, I know that there are experts in the field who I'd rely on to tell me what should be done. It strikes me that the more general an education and the more creative reading and projects that children are encouraged to participate in is the better education that you get.
At the same time there has to be objective standards. You know, tests. And you have to avoid social promotion. But there's a balance. I think the emphasis now has shifted much too far toward testing and much less on general education.

Q. Do you want less testing? I mean Herman Badillo last week was talking about testing I believe starting in first grade. Would you want less testing than we have now?

A. I think there has to be a balance. I'm not saying to eliminate it, but I don't think the whole course should be preparing for a test. . . .

Q. How would a Vallone City Hall be different than a Giuliani City Hall, policy-wise?

A. . . . In terms of the crisis that we're about to have, what I'm asking the people to consider is this: everybody's leaving office. You have 15 council members that are left. There won't be any staff left because there's no one to hire them on the City Council side of the ledger. You need someone who can continue running this city, pretty much in the same direction that it's going, but someone who might know, not only based upon experience of how to run this city, but someone who can do it in a far better way than it's being done now. How? Can anyone accuse me of having closed a door to anyone in this city? Can anyone accuse me of shutting anyone else out? Can anyone accuse me of not talking to either management or labor in any area? No. I've had that record of experience for 11 years. You know and they know that I can run this city as good or better than it's ever been run before. . . .

Q. Are there any departments -- and I'm thinking apart from police and education -- that would be exempt as far as possible from cuts in the event of a budget shortfall?

A. Well the one that comes to mind right away is parks, only because it's been so decimated. There's been no priority whatsoever given to parks under this administration for eight years.

Q. So you would not exempt the Police Department or the Board of Education?

A. I wouldn't exempt anybody. No. . . .

Q. What about tax policy?

A. Tax policy, it strikes me that we're finally in a balanced situation where people can't say that we are so heavily overtaxed in the City of New York that it doesn't pay to do business here. To start talking about raising taxes again, it plays right into the hands of the businesses that you want to keep in the City of New York, you're driving them out. You're absolutely driving them out. . . .

Q. Would you rule out raising taxes at all during a long ----

A. Yes.

Q. You would. Under any circumstances at all?

A. Yeah. Because it took 11 years to get us where we are now. And you could undo that in one year.

Q. Do you have other pet areas, large or small? Everyone's talking about public safety and the schools. Those are the biggies. And Bloomberg talked about the parks this weekend. Do you have other areas that ----

A. Yeah. Absolutely. . . . I've actually reduced tuition in half for any kid who graduates from any high school in the city of New York with a B average or better. No one knows that because the mayor opposes it. And he keeps taking it out of the budget and we keep putting it back in the budget. We have given out 25,000 scholarships to over 13,000 kids right now. And we're giving out thousands more this year. It's one of the great things that's helped CUNY because now they have a scholarship program. . . .

Q. Would you have room for Mr. Levy in a Vallone administration?

A. Harold is a good friend of mine. I've known him for years. I'm the first one who appointed him to an education committee. But he's not an educator. His expertise is management. I don't need an expert -- if I get control -- if we get control of the City of New York, the City of New York gets control with the mayor and the board of -- and the City Council. We don't need that. We need educators around here.

Q. So you would let Mr. Levy go?

A. Yeah. I wouldn't need him.

Q. And Kerik?

A. Bernie Kerik will be on my short list. . . .

Q. I'd just like to get to the subject of welfare, while we have a little time. Rolls have been cut in half over the last eight years, economic slowdown coming. Do you see the welfare rolls going up in a Vallone administration?

A. No. What I do see is training going up. I have a transitional jobs bill that this mayor refuses to fund. I'm not suing him because a lawsuit will take a lot longer than next five months.
So what is the transitional jobs bill? What do you have left? You've reduced your welfare rolls considerably. We have a problem because you're not following it up. . . . I passed a bill, after long negotiations with the mayor, long negotiations with the unions, to say, let's put another 7,500 people on, 2,500 people per year over the next three years, in a transitions jobs bill. Let them work for the City of New York for one year. We're not violating state law because it's less than one year, and we're not violating civil service law. Train them, and after one year they're in a position where either they can fill a vacancy in the City of New York or go into private industry. . . .

Q. Sounds like your fantasy is to continue a lot of what ----

A. My fantasy?

Q. ---- and to push through everything that he wouldn't do.

A. Yeah, I think basically ----

Q. It was your ----

A. To start off, I say, what makes me different than the others? I don't think there's an area you can bring up that I haven't had some experience in. Does that alone make me the best qualified? No. But I do have ideas and visions of where I think I want to go, based upon what I've done.
Is there any likelihood I'm going to make the city unsafe again? No. I've been there and I've done that. There's no way I'd ever let it slip back. 
Is there any likelihood that I will make some progress in education? I said, I think so. I mean, this isn't just a new thing for me, to get on television. I've been saying this for a lot of years, and I would want to really have the opportunity to do it. 
In terms of affordable housing, everybody now took my plan. So it must be a good one. . . . You're not talking a chance with me. You have somebody that's been steady and reliable and has -- given a proven record of being able to work with a lot of different people and a lot of various factions, bringing people together. I have a very good relationship with -- from the far right to the far left -- and will be able to govern this city I think in a far better way than it's being done now. Not that I'm knocking Giuliani. It's just that based upon the mistakes that we've all made in the past, I'm not likely to make those mistakes. Will I make other mistakes? Of course I will. But at least you're not taking any chances.
And the thing that usually works in any of these audiences to get them to understand is -- you know, I had an operation on my knee, which is a true story, back when I was first elected speaker. And incidentally, I've never missed a meeting, never missed a meeting. So to me attendance is very, very important of any kind. O.K.? I take my work very, very seriously.
So I said to the doctor get me someone who can get me in and out of the hospital as quickly as possible because I don't want to miss anything, and I'll do it in between meetings.

Q. This was for a City Council meeting?

A. Yeah, I've never missed a -- in 27 years I've missed one meeting and that's because I was on a cruise. And they raised their salary. Before I became speaker. But in any event.
So the first doctor comes to me and tells me he graduated Harvard, just coincidentally so did somebody else, and finished No. 1 in the class. His thesis was on knee operations, but never operated on a knee before. And I said you're not going to start with me. You might turn out to be the greatest doctor in the world, but I want somebody else. And I don't care what medical school he or she went to, I just want to know that this -- this doctor that I finally chose had operated on a thousand knees and got me in and out of the hospital within two days. O.K.? That's the doctor I went to.
You're not going to take a chance with an operation. Any one of you who would go to any doctor and want to know what experience has the doctor. Has he or she done this kind of operation before? That's the one you're going to choose.
And I tell people, don't make the same mistake with mayor. Choose a mayor that you know has been there and done that and is likely to do it successfully in the future. The others, terrific guys.

Q. Can you give us a brief description of what you think are the shortcomings of each of your democratic opponents?

A. Just experience.

Q. In each case?

A. In each case. They're fine people. Someday they'll make great mayors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text; Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); LEGAL AID (65%); PROBATION (65%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); LEGISLATION (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



824 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Vallone Says He Is Best One To Maintain the City's Gains 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
Warning that New York faced a crisis because of the imminent departure of dozens of elected leaders forced out by term limits, Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, said yesterday that he should be elected mayor because he could assure stability in City Hall and protect advances New York had made over the past decade.
 Mr. Vallone, in a 90-minute interview with reporters and editors of The New York Times, distinguished himself from his three major Democratic opponents by declaring that he would oppose any tax increases in the next eight years, and would push for further tax cuts, no matter what happened to the budget or the economy. He said that in the event of a economic downturn he would exempt only the Parks Department from spending cuts. He said the Police Department and school system might be subject to reductions. 
 The speaker argued that eliminating the Board of Education would be the most effective thing New York could do to revive the public school system. He said that change alone, which would put the mayor more directly in control of the system, would be more effective than raising teachers' salaries, introducing vouchers, or expanding the use of standardized tests to measure the performance of students. In fact, he said, he worries that too much testing has already damaged education. 
Mr. Vallone repeatedly and earnestly presented himself as the unrecognized architect of many improvements in city life often credited to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in the last eight years. Mr. Vallone, 66, who has been speaker since 1990, suggested that he was largely responsible for policies that had led to the drop in crime and to the city's fiscal stability. He also claimed much credit for a new campaign finance law, a City Council independent of county political leaders, the closing of the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island and a favorable climate for the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics. "I'm the one that single-handedly changed the policy on the homeless," Mr. Vallone said at one point. Those steps and others, he said, have changed the public perception of the city. 
Over all, Mr. Vallone, a fixture in city government for 27 years, described himself as the safest choice for voters contemplating life after Mr. Giuliani. To make his point, Mr. Vallone recounted rejecting the advice of a surgeon who had proposed operating on his knee, saying the doctor had never performed the operation even though he had written his medical thesis on knee surgery. Mr. Vallone suggested that the voters should use similar standards in judging the credentials and experience of candidates for mayor. 
"You're not taking a chance with me," Mr. Vallone said. Expressing concern about the imminent turnover among elected officials and City Hall staff caused by term limits, he added, "You need someone who can continue running this city pretty much in the same direction that it's going."
"If any of the other candidates could say that they've had not only the executive experience but also the legislative experience to work with this council, I don't think you have to be a rocket scientist and say, 'No, they haven't,' " he said. "As good as they are and as nice as they are, and I like them all, they simply don't have anything to do, nothing whatsoever to do with running a city council or running this city."
Mr. Vallone's three major Democratic opponents in the Sept. 11 primary are Mark Green, the city public advocate; Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller; and Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president. All three Democrats are also familiar figures in city government, if not for quite so long. And like Mr. Vallone, all three have sought to argue that they have the experience to take over City Hall once Mr. Giuliani leaves in January.
Mr. Vallone arrived at The Times for the interview accompanied by two City Hall aides and one campaign adviser. They sat beside him and filled in his sentences and offered factual guidance as he spoke, often in fast bursts of sentences, clogged with figures and acronyms from the governmental programs that have been Mr. Vallone's public life for so long.
Mr. Vallone praised Mr. Giuliani's tenure far more than his opponents have, and left little doubt that he would welcome Mr. Giuliani's endorsement. He described him as "a great manager."
Mr. Vallone said that as mayor, he would want to retain Mr. Giuliani's police commissioner, Bernard B. Kerik, and the commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services, Nicholas Scoppetta. But he said he would not keep Harold O. Levy, the schools chancellor, because he wants the school system to be led by an educator, not a business leader.
Still, as Mr. Vallone spoke, it became clear that a Vallone City Hall would be quite different from the City Hall voters have grown accustomed to. He was critical of police staffing policies under Mr. Giuliani, saying he wanted a return to neighborhood patrols. "I emphasize prevention," he said. "The mayor emphasizes apprehension with arrest and conviction."
He said he supported the creation of an independent commission to investigate reports of police abuse. And he was sharply critical of Mr. Giuliani's dealings with racial minorities.
"I think in terms of the perception, as well as in some cases the reality, that the mayor doesn't care about what goes on in minority districts," he said. "That's just a matter of his reaching out."
Mr. Vallone said his "dream" was to eliminate tuition at the City University of New York, but he offered no details of how he would do it; an aide described it as a "long-term goal." He also said he would support using all the revenue from the World Trade Center leases, which he said would amount to $100 million a year, to finance a 10-year plan that he said would create 220,000 units of inexpensive housing. Mr. Vallone indicated that he had only a limited amount of patience for New York neighborhoods that battle development projects, saying he was sympathetic with some developers' complaints about the difficulty of building in New York.
He said that as mayor, he would not push a development project "down a community's throat." But, he said: "Now many communities don't want to have anything built. They don't anything and that's unacceptable." 
Throughout the interview, Mr. Vallone portrayed himself as the central if perhaps invisible player in some of New York's biggest legislative episodes, and seemed frustrated, now that he is involved in the highest-profile political battle of his life, that his accomplishments had been overlooked. "My job as speaker is a kind of back-room job," he said.
Mr. Vallone's attempt to draw more credit to his career involved him in a disagreement with David N. Dinkins, the former mayor. There has been debate in government circles recently over whether Mr. Giuliani or Mr. Dinkins should be credited for the changes in police staffing that accompanied the decline in crime, and Mr. Vallone argued yesterday that he was the real central figure in winning the money to hire more police officers.
Mr. Vallone said it was he who pushed Mr. Dinkins to adopt the Safe Streets, Safe City program, under which the State Legislature approved a surcharge on the city's personal income tax to pay for hiring more police officers. "David resisted that forcefully for a period of about six months," Mr. Vallone said. "I introduced a bill. Your editorial at the time -- if you go back to 1989 you'll find Peter Vallone -- David Dinkins where are you? -- Peter Vallone standing up for criminal justice. Something along that line."
Mr. Dinkins, who is supporting Mr. Green, had a different recollection of those events. "Peter may be revising history," he said in an interview. "I think by now the world knows that Safe Streets, Safe City is a product of the Dinkins administration.
"It was a mayor accomplishment in the final analysis," he said. "I'm happy to share credit with the City Council. But let's don't get carried away with it."
Mr. Vallone, who is one of those being forced out by term limits, seemed concerned that the Council would falter once he left it in the hands of his successors. "We've had almost a Camelot-type relationship in terms of a legislative body working with an executive branch for the last 11 years," he said. "That could all go right down the tube."
As he cited what he described as his many accomplishments, he grew particularly animated when talking about one. In 27 years, Mr. Vallone said, he only missed a single meeting of the City Council. And that was only because he was on a cruise. He noted tartly that it was the day the Council voted to raise members' salaries.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter F. Vallone said his opponents have had nothing "to do with running a city council or running this city." (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POLITICS (77%); CRIME RATES (75%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (73%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (52%); LANDFILLS (50%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%) VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); NAGOURNEY, ADAM; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



825 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: White House Says the U.S. Is Not a Loner, Just Choosy 

BYLINE:  By THOM SHANKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30 

 BODY:
In his first six months in office, President Bush has abandoned a treaty on fighting global warming, rejected protocols enforcing a ban on germ warfare, demanded amendments to an accord on illegal sales of small arms, threatened to skip an international conference on racism and vowed to withdraw from a landmark pact limiting ballistic missile defenses.
 The reaction from Berlin to Beijing has been one of concern that an American president who walks away from so many treaties might be one who wants to walk away from the world -- or, at the least, one who will demand that the world live by terms dictated by America alone. 
 Mr. Bush's advisers deny that he is unilateralist or isolationist, or that his administration has a blanket disdain for group action as a way of conducting world affairs. They simply view treaties as a steam-engine-age tool whose usefulness this deep into the nuclear era will be judged one issue at a time, one negotiation at a time, one summit meeting at a time. 
"What you're going to get from this administration is 'a la carte multilateralism,' " said Richard Haass, the State Department's director of policy planning, coining a name for the administration's approach.
At a gathering last week at the Nixon Center here, he added, "We'll look at each agreement and make a decision, rather than come out with a broad-based approach."
So far, the administration has displayed unanimity in formulating international policy, with only a few differences so pronounced as to become public. One concerns the global warming treaty. While Secretary of State Colin L. Powell told foreign leaders earlier this month that the United States would have a counterproposal to the Kyoto accord in time for an October conference in Morocco, Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser, said last weekend that the administration had no such deadline.
In general, Mr. Bush and his most senior advisers say they are applying what they see as a hard-headed assessment of treaties case by case, and based on America's interests.
President Clinton, in contrast, embraced arms control negotiations. He sent his envoys to Moscow to seek a grand bargain with Russia that would defend the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty by amending it, coupled with a new round of formal talks on strategic arms reductions. He also signed the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and sent it to the Senate, where it languishes today.
It should be noted, however, that President Bush is criticized for rejecting two agreements that even Mr. Clinton did not wholeheartedly advocate: the international ban on land mines and an accord establishing a permanent International Criminal Court.
Under President Bush, there will be no rush to lengthy negotiations simply on the premise of history that talk is good. Treaties, Mr. Bush and his advisers say, will be adopted when they clearly carve American interests in stone. In some areas of arms control, the administration believes that treaties bind only the honest but give cover to the cheat. And on nuclear arms control in particular, treaties move too slowly to manage a dynamic yet still uncertain relationship with Russia at a time when historic reductions in arsenals are conceivable, officials say.
"You'll not find a more internationalist administration than this administration," Ms. Rice said Sunday on CBS's "Face the Nation." She criticized policies under which "internationalism somehow becomes defined as signing on to bad treaties just to say that you've signed a treaty."
But by knocking off several of the hard-earned, high-profile treaties on arms control and the environment, Mr. Bush has been subjected to outrage from some of America's closest friends -- who wonder what will replace a world ordered by treaties -- as well as its adversaries who see arrogance in Mr. Bush's actions.
The British, for example, consider themselves America's greatest friends in Europe and often find themselves defending United States behavior to dubious Continentals. But their task has been complicated by what many perceive as American unilateralism and finger-in-the-eye confrontation in place of diplomacy.
Any missile shield will have to use British radar and tracking facilities, and Labor politicians have already threatened Prime Minister Tony Blair with the kinds of protests that were widespread in Britain during the years when American missiles were based there.
As for the environment, Britain is very green politically and the press denounced Mr. Bush after he rejected the Kyoto agreement on global warming; The Independent published a front page picture of him under the caption "Polluter of the World."
There was a notable change in feeling across Europe last week, after the Group of 8 conference in Genoa, that Mr. Bush was now interested in reconciliation with leaders who had been put off by some of his early decisions.
Even so, writing in the German weekly Die Zeit, Theo Sommer compared Mr. Bush's style to that of Andrei A. Gromyko, the grizzled Soviet foreign minister known to a generation of diplomats as "Grim Grom" and "Mr. Nyet."
"The president says 'no,' not grimly, but with a smile. Yet he shows his teeth in doing so," Mr. Sommer wrote. "He does not concede, he does not give up, he does not surrender. He offers everyone consultations, partners and rivals alike; he promises to keep in touch; that is why, he assures everyone, you cannot talk about an American go-it-alone attitude. Yet the conversations are aimed at conversion, not compromise."
In China, the president's actions have served to cement in the public mind their government's characterization of the United States as hegemonic. The word, featured prominently and frequently in state newspaper headlines, is among the first adjectives that come to mind for everyone from university students to migrant laborers when asked what they think of America. 
"After Bush came into power, the most noteworthy aspect of his administration's foreign policy is unilateralism," Yan Xuetong, director of the Institute of International Studies at Qinghua University, wrote last week in the People's Daily. "It neither negotiates with the principal countries whose interests are involved nor exchanges views with its allies on international affairs."
Regardless of a presidential candidate's politics and personal desires, the realities of global responsibility constrain any American president -- something that each new occupant of the White House learns after the quadrennial irritation of new policy reviews ordered up after Inauguration Day.
Just as few war plans survive the first engagement with the enemy, so do presidential perceptions adapt to the first handshake with a rival and a first tour of the world aboard Air Force One.
President Bush entered office vowing to speedily scrap the ABM Treaty, regardless of Russian objections. There is little doubt that Mr. Bush still plans to invoke the six-month notice to legally withdraw from the pact. But after he met President Vladimir V. Putin, and said he had looked into the Russian's soul, Mr. Bush instructed his national security team to begin accelerated discussions to create a new security framework with Russia as a partner.
"Our critics and the people who love the ABM Treaty probably have trouble accepting the idea that that is a framework of mutual enmity, but that's what it reflects," Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy secretary of defense, said in an interview. The administration's goal is "to replace that framework of dealing with each other as potential adversaries with a framework of dealing with one another as potential allies -- and if that's too strong a word, perhaps it is at least countries with major security interests in common," he said.
Indeed, the administration points to a list of nonproliferation treaties it supports as essential to United States and global security, including the Missile Technology Control Regime, the Chemical Weapons Convention and the Nonproliferation Treaty.
But the administration faces a new challenge on its nonproliferation policy, deliberating over the last months how to explain its stance on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty ahead of a conference this September at the United Nations in New York. The nation's closest allies will be exhorting holdout states to move forward on the test ban, yet the administration has made it clear that it is content to have the treaty remain frozen in the Senate.
Japan's foreign minister, Makiko Tanaka, urged the administration again just last week to push for ratification, and urged Mr. Bush to send a high-level delegation to the meeting in September. So far, the administration has not been moved.
Mr. Bush did undergo a transformation on the nation's obligations to peacekeeping missions in Bosnia and Kosovo: although he criticized such deployments during the campaign, he has since determined that tending to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, perhaps the most successful multilateral alliance in history, is worth keeping American combat boots deep in the Balkan mud -- at least as long as the allies do, too.
The administration is striking back at Congress, which always has members exhibiting a strong isolationist -- or at least independent -- streak, for what Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, described today as acts of unilateralism and attempts to hobble the president's global role.
He attacked those who support a union-led campaign to thwart tenets of the North American Free Trade Agreement and keep Mexican truckers off American highways, and who also are hampering the president in trade negotiations; most of them are Democrats.
"I think it's a worrisome indication that there's some people on the Hill who are pursuing an isolationist path," Mr. Fleischer said. "And the president would like to stop that from happening."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: 'A la Carte Multilateralism"'The Bush administration has displayed a willingness to stand alone in opposition to several major international agreements, but there are some accords the administration supports. Here is the Bush administration's stand on some international agreements: OPPOSESAntiBallistic Missile TreatyLimits development and testing of a national missile defenseBush's position: Says the treaty is out of date, and the administration will rapidly move ahead with discussions with Russia on slashing offensive weapons. Kyoto ProtocolSeeks to reduce emissions of greenhouse gasesBush's position: Says the treaty places too much of the burden of cleanup on industrialized countries and would harm the United States' economy and, therefore, the world's. Comprehensive Test Ban TreatyBans all nuclear testingBush's position: Has decided to let the treaty languish in the Senate, which rejected it in 1999, and where the treaty's supporters lack the votes to bring it up again. Small-Arms Control PACTSeeks to curtail illegal trafficking in small armsBush's position: Opposed language calling for restrictions on civilian gun ownership and weapons sales; ultimately a much more limited pact was reached. Biological Weapons protocolEnforces compliance with a treaty prohibiting biological weaponsBush's position: Rejected it as seriously flawed, and said it would not deter nations seeking to develop biological weapons. SUPPORTSNonProliferation TreatySeeks to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons to countries that do not have them. Biological Weapons ConventionProhibits the development, production or possession of biological weapons. Missile Technology Control RegimeInformal arrangement among 29 countries to prevent the export of technologies for delivering nuclear warheads and weapons of mass destruction. The Australia GroupInformal arrangement of 33 countries to prevent the export of biological and chemical weapons. Chemical Weapons ConventionBans chemical weapons and provides for inspections of chemical factories.(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FIREARMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (73%); LANDMINES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WEATHER; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; GLOBAL WARMING; TREATIES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHANKER, THOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOROCCO (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



826 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS; 
Treasury Is Planning to Borrow to Cover Cost of Tax Rebates

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The Treasury said yesterday that it would borrow the money needed for the tax rebates now going to taxpayers as part of President Bush's $1.35 billion tax cut.
 The plan to sell Treasury securities to pay for the rebates -- up to $600 a couple or $300 for individuals -- reflects a cash flow squeeze, not some sudden turn of the budget from surplus to deficit. Still, it is another sign of how markedly the outlook for the budget surplus has changed in just the last two months, as the economy and tax revenue have slowed drastically. 
 Further, with the Bush administration now estimating that the surplus for this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, could fall as low as $160 billion, the administration and Congress are coming dangerously close to doing something they have promised not to -- dipping into the Social Security surplus to pay for tax cuts or government spending. As recently as January, the surplus was forecast to be $281 billion. 
"If things continue to deteriorate, you will be there this year," said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, of the possibility of using some of the Social Security surplus. That could set off a partisan political cat fight as Congress and the White House struggle to avoid tampering with the so-called Social Security lockbox.
The announcement came as the Treasury said that slowing tax receipts, a change in the due date for corporate tax payments and the $38 billion price tag for the tax rebates had radically changed its plans for borrowing in the July through September quarter, which is the last in fiscal year 2001. Instead of paying down $57 billion in debt, as the Treasury had expected on April 30, the Treasury now plans to borrow $51 billion. "The change in borrowing reflects a number of factors, most significantly the shift in the Sept. 15 corporate tax due date to Oct. 1 and the need to finance in this quarter the tax rebates," the Treasury said in a statement.
In April, the 10-year tax cut program, including the rebates, had not been completed. Nor had Congress voted to delay corporate tax payments to Oct. 1, the first day of the next fiscal year. That moved about $30 billion from this year to next.
And while economists were expecting tax collections to slow down, it was not clear until June corporate tax receipts were reported and the June budget surplus came in $24 billion below the previous year's level how sharp the decline had been. Treasury officials said that receipts in the third quarter would also be about $20 billion less than they had expected.
Tony Fratto, a Treasury spokesman, said: "We made a decision to implement an immediate economic stimulus through tax cuts. These number simply reflect those changes."
The two-week delay in the corporate tax due date could come back to haunt the politicians who enacted it. 
The payment day was changed because, at the time, officials were worried that with the tax cut the budget surplus for 2002 would not be large enough to cover government spending without dipping into the Social Security surplus. Both Republicans and Democrats have promised not to do that -- the famous "lockbox" pledge -- and the threat of doing so could have undermined arguments for the tax cut.
Officials, in any event, thought that there was enough of a cushion in the current fiscal year surplus to shift the corporate tax payments into fiscal year 2002.
Louis Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson & Associates, noted in his commentary for this week that "this particular exercise in smoke and mirrors will cost the Treasury more than $40 million in lost interest income."
And if the surplus for this year falls to $160 billion, the low end of White House projections, it will have all but exhausted the so-called on-budget surplus, which does not include Social Security. 
Mr. Crandall said that numbers on tax receipts and spending he had seen were "consistent with a budget surplus of not much more than $160 billion."
He also said that the Treasury was taking a conservative approach with its third-quarter borrowing plans. With the $51 billion in borrowing, he said, Treasury officials are expecting a cash balance at the end of the quarter of $55 billion, instead of the $40 billion Mr. Crandall had forecast. "They are borrowing at a pace that will cover all their needs," he said, "even if tax receipts deteriorate and spending increases more than they expect."
From the bond market's point of view, the news means that the Treasury bill sector will continue to be inundated with new issues, with about $100 billion in new Treasury bills in the third quarter, according to Mr. Crandall. The expectation of this wave of bills has already driven up the yields on three-month and six-month Treasury bills compared with similar short-term offerings.
This is likely to make the yields on the new four-week Treasury bills, which will be auctioned today, higher than would have been expected just a month ago, analysts said.
The reduction in the budget surplus is also making investors and traders worry less about the prospect of the Treasury market's shrinking as the government pays down its public debt. That issue, and what the government and investors do about it, is being put off into the future, for now.
Treasury bond prices were mixed yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note fell 2/32, to a price of 99 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.10 percent from 5.09 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 5/32, to 97 25/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.53 percent from 5.54 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 3-month and 6-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.12098.291High Rate3.4803.380Investment Rate3.5613.487Low Rate3.43%3.32%Median Rate3.46%3.36%Total applied for$37,394,622$36,421,531Accepted$18,396,938$18,688,955Noncompetitive$1,515,760$1,631,241

Both issues are dated Aug. 2, 2001. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 1, and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 31, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "3-Month Treasury Bills"Chart shows average discounted rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CASH FLOW (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; TAXATION; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO LTD (68%); HOENIG & CO INC (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



827 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Clinton's Harlem Renaissance 

 BODY:
After a faulty start in January, Bill Clinton's second launch of his ex-presidency fared much better yesterday in central Harlem. A crowd that included the actress Cicely Tyson and Representative Charles Rangel -- who kept referring to Harlem's most prominent new tenant as "our president" -- welcomed Mr. Clinton so warmly that he looked almost giddy about the end of his post-presidential exile. "You were always there for me," he crooned, noting that his audience mirrored the diversity of the entire world. 
 Mr. Clinton's move into new offices on 125th Street is more than a real estate transaction. It provides an excellent match of a place and a retired president, far more appropriate than his first choice, a gilded tower on 57th Street that would have given him a fine view of the city but only limited access to its diverse citizenry. Now, with his sense of entitlement chastened, Mr. Clinton has returned to his political roots, to a place and constituency where he is at home and at his best. 
 There is certainly plenty of room these days for a skillful drummer of vigorous centrist politics who can speak to new solutions for national and global problems. And whatever happens with the historical verdict on his presidency, Mr. Clinton can now begin to make a name for himself in the annals of the nation's ex-presidents. While some former presidents faded into civilian life, especially those who were well beyond retirement age, Mr. Clinton is young and still has time for a new chapter. Even Richard Nixon wrote a new epilogue for himself by offering a seasoned perspective on foreign policy in his later years. Jimmy Carter, meanwhile, continues to make his imprint, working on rural housing through Habitat for Humanity and pursuing human rights and health care abroad. 
Mr. Clinton's advisers have suggested that he has no plans to become a point man for President Bush's critics -- a wise move, given the need to encourage new political voices in the Democratic Party. Still, there are times when an ex-president can speak with special authority about his successor, much as Mr. Carter has been doing in his critique of President Bush's views on the global warming and antiballistic missile treaties.
In recent months, mostly in his overseas trips, Mr. Clinton has talked passionately about the need to combat AIDS, as the disease devastates Africa and spreads through Russia and the Caribbean. He has offered to help manage the peace process in Northern Ireland, an offer his successor should consider since Mr. Clinton knows this bitter terrain well. He has promised to fight against poverty in American Indian reservations and to speak out against the crushing problems of the nation's rural poor.
With his Harlem move he has also raised hopes that one of his chief activities will be to serve as an advocate for the nation's cities. Mr. Clinton, who spoke with great feeling during his presidency about the needs of the underclass, noted during his Harlem speech that Harlem's "empowerment zone," created during his presidency, had attracted $600 million in private investment. On many long-neglected urban issues Mr. Clinton's persuasive voice could make a difference -- especially if he picks big targets, the difficult economic, housing, education and health problems that those facing election or re-election often fail to address. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); RETIREMENT AGE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (69%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); AIDS & HIV (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (50%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); BLACKS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); CHARLES B RANGEL (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%) HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



828 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Cool Economy Shrinks Number Of Visitors to New York City 

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
A million fewer tourists came to New York City last year than were expected, new data show, and the projection for 2001 has been cut by nearly two million, as the cooling economy curtails the surge in visitors both from the United States and abroad.
 Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and the leaders of NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau, chose to put a positive spin on downward revisions yesterday. They noted that the city still expected to see 37.6 million visitors this year, half a percent more than in 2000. 
 "This resurgence in tourism comes after a period of time in which tourism had declined dramatically," Mr. Giuliani said, referring to the early 1990's.
When questioned, officials acknowledged that the 37.6 million projection for 2001 was 1.8 million fewer visitors than they had predicted as recently as May. And while visits by business travelers and tourists had jumped by 11 percent in 1999, the final figure for 2000 was a 2 percent increase, also less than expected.
Hotel executives said they were not surprised by the data showing a slowdown, as hotel occupancies have been slipping in the city and elsewhere in the United States since at least the beginning of the year.
"It is simply a fallout of the soft economy, which has produced less business travel, fewer meetings and conventions and less travel by tourists," said Roger W. Conner, a vice president at Marriott International, which owns 13 hotels in the city, including 8 in Manhattan.
Estimating how many people have come to or are planning a visit to New York City is always a complicated task, requiring a combination of data from a travel research consulting firm, D. K. Shifflet & Associates, and the federal government.
The final figures for last year show that 6.8 million people visited from outside the United States, while an estimated 30.6 million came from within the country. The domestic visits earned the city a standing as the third most popular destination for United States travelers last year, behind Orlando and Las Vegas, compared with second place in 1999.
Even with the leveling off of tourism, it is still an extremely profitable industry for the city, with visitors spending an estimated $17 billion in hotels, restaurants and stores last year.
But when combined with information showing that private-sector employment dropped in New York City in May and June, the new tourism numbers are another sign that the slowdown in the national economy has reached the country's largest city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TOURISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (71%); RESTAURANTS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (83%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (83%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (83%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%) LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



829 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

White House Says the U.S. Is Not a Loner, Just Choosy
President Bush's advisers said his rejection of various international accords and threat to skip a conference on racism did not indicate that he was unilateralist or isolationist or that the administration had a blanket disdain for group action in the conduct of world affairs. Rather, they said, the administration was pursuing a policy of evaluating international agreements and meetings on a case-by-case basis. A1

Racism Conference Agenda
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, said the organization's world conference against racism next month was intended to prevent future problems, not become mired in old ones. He seemed to be supporting the Bush administration, which warned that it might not attend the conference, which will be held in South Africa, because the agenda included discussion of viewing Zionism as racism and demands for compensation for slavery. A10

Gruesome Inquiry in Serbia
As many as 1,000 bodies have been found in mass graves and freezer trucks in Serbia, believed to be those of Kosovo Albanians killed by Serbs during the 1999 war. The new Serbian government says it has solid evidence that former President Slobodan Milosevic ordered security forces to cover up evidence of crimes that would be of interest to The Hague war crimes tribunal, where he awaits trial. A3

Daylong Violence in Mideast
Bombs, mortars, missiles and knives left casualties on both sides of the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. A8

Protestants Kill a Protestant
A banned Protestant paramilitary group in Northern Ireland took responsibility for the killing of an 18-year-old Protestant in a drive-by shooting aimed at a group of teenagers who were walking outside a Catholic Gaelic football park. A11

Scholar Back in Hong Kong
Li Shaomin, a Chinese-born American scholar convicted by Beijing of spying for Taiwan and deported to the United States last week, returned to Hong Kong to resume his teaching job at the City University there. His return was hailed as a victory for Hong Kong's autonomy within China. A6

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A12-17

Lawyers' Group Weighs Revision of Ethics Code
The American Bar Association is considering an update of ethics rules for lawyers, which if approved would give attorneys more freedom to divulge clients' secrets if such revelations would prevent fraud, injury or death. The proposed rules also deal with topics like sex with clients and whether lawyers should be obligated to tell the whole truth in court. The association's annual meeting begins tomorrow in Chicago. A1

Research Entanglements
The House is expected to consider two competing cloning bills, possibly today. Both would ban making babies by cloning, but the more restrictive would also ban cloning to make embryos for medical research, work that destroys the tiny balls of cells. A17

Pressing for Patients' Rights
Representative Charlie Norwood, a Georgia Republican who has led a six-year effort to enact a patients' bill of rights, was moving toward compromise with the White House on a bill that could be put to a vote in the House this week. A17

F.B.I. Nominee Sees Challenge
Robert S. Mueller III, President Bush's choice to lead the F.B.I., acknowledged at his Senate confirmation hearing that the agency had been tarnished by problems and that employees who committed blunders must be held accountable. A14

Electoral Overhaul Urged
A commission led by former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Gerald R. Ford is recommending numerous changes to the election system, including the use of provisional ballots, making Election Day a national holiday and putting limits on news media projections of winners. A14

New Bomb Prosecution Sought
Dozens of victims of the Oklahoma City bombing and relatives of the dead met with a new prosecutor to discuss whether Terry L. Nichols, now serving a federal sentence of life in prison, should be tried on state murder charges in the killing of 160 people. A12

Welfare-to-Work Studies
Early studies of families in three welfare-to-work programs have found unexpected evidence that their adolescent children have lower academic achievement and more behavioral problems than the children of other welfare households. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Vallone Says His Strength Is Protecting City's Gains
Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker and a Democrat, said in an interview that with the imminent departure of many elected leaders because of term limits, himself included, his election as mayor would assure stability in City Hall and protect advances made in the last decade. A1

Harlem Welcomes Clinton
Bill Clinton received a hero's welcome from an adoring crowd as he formally opened his office in a Harlem building. The former president was joined by prominent New York Democratic officials and some former Cabinet secretaries. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton stayed in Washington because her mother was having surgery, Mr. Clinton said. A1

Although Mayor Giuliani was listed on the program as a speaker, he did not attend, and later said he had no idea he had been expected, though he said Mr. Clinton's locating in Harlem would be good for the area. B4

Boy Killed in M.R.I. Accident
A 6-year-old patient at Westchester Medical Center was struck on Friday by a metal oxygen tank -- which should not have been in the room -- that was pulled through the air by the machine's powerful electromagnet, officials said. He died on Sunday. B1

Terror Case Costs Near Record
Defense costs in the embassy bombings case in Manhattan exceed $7 million, possibly making it the second-most expensive criminal defense ever paid for by the government. Four suspects were convicted, a fifth pleaded guilty and two await trial. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Calling and Driving Don't Mix
Researchers said a study of brain activity showed that when people try to drive in heavy traffic and talk, brain activity does not double; rather, the amount of brain activity devoted to each task actually decreases. F1

Health & Fitness F5

ARTS E1-8

The Endless Summer
Business is off for much of the entertainment industry. More people are staying home and out of the theaters, and fewer are buying books. Experts cite the mushy economy and high prices, a lack of quality and too many options, especially on television. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Speechmaking Software
AT&T Labs will start selling software that it says can reproduce the sounds, inflections and intonations of a human voice so well that it can recreate voices and even bring the voices of dead celebrities back to life. A1

Borrowing to Finance Rebates
The Treasury said it would borrow the money needed for the rebates -- up to $600 a couple or $300 for individuals -- now going to taxpayers as part of President Bush's $1.35 billion tax cut. The decision reflects a cash flow squeeze, not a sudden turn of the budget from surplus to deficit. C1

Wariness of Dollar's Rise
A growing number of economists say it is time to consider whether the dollar, which has shot up this year against the euro and the Japanese yen, has risen to a level that could do more harm than good. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES C17

FASHION B8

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Death at the hands of science; Mr. Clinton's Harlem renaissance; new political star in Japan.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ETHICS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); EVIDENCE (88%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); CLONING (84%); BIOETHICS (84%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); CRIME PREVENTION (74%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (70%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (66%); SHOOTINGS (66%); DEPORTATION (65%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); ASIAN AMERICANS (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (69%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); CHINA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); NETHERLANDS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



830 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: In Harlem, a Hero's Welcome For New Neighbor Clinton 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Former President William Jefferson Clinton officially began his post-presidency in Harlem yesterday in front of an adoring audience that gave no acknowledgment that he had ever left office.
 Ferried about one block by a sport utility vehicle from his new office at 55 West 125th Street, Mr. Clinton received a hero's welcome at the plaza of the Adam Clayton Powell State Office Building, where the crowd of 2,000 had waited as long as two hours in the sun. 
 The crowd appeared willing to forget Mr. Clinton's past travails, and the fact that Harlem was his second choice in his search for office space. Instead, it was a day to celebrate the arrival of a new neighbor whose move has seemed to affirm Harlem's resurrection. 
"We love Bill," the crowd chanted, drowning out calls of "Slave master" and "Go home" from a group of black separatists and other foes of gentrification. 
Mr. Clinton clearly relished the event, as much a coming-out for his new life as for the homecoming that it was repeatedly proclaimed. At one point he appeared to be literally bouncing with joy. But he also acknowledged the concern that hung in the air like a discordant note: that his arrival, and the economic jolt it will likely bring Harlem, could also be threatening. "I want to make sure I'm a good neighbor in Harlem," he said. "I'm glad property values are going up, but I don't want small-business people to be run out because I'm coming in."
Mr. Clinton was joined by a Who's Who of the state's Democratic officials and a few former Cabinet members -- but not the city's Republican mayor. And he was hailed, essentially, as the chief. "This is the last president we ever had that was elected," Representative Charles B. Rangel said, alluding to the contested election of President George W. Bush, "and if we had our way he would be re-elected."
During his speech, Mr. Clinton told the crowd that his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was in Washington because her mother had surgery yesterday, called just before he came out to make sure that he would say and do the right things. "Somebody drop her a note and tell her I gave a good account of myself today," he said to loud laughter. 
And he joked that he had dreamed of playing music at the Apollo Theater. "I ain't dead yet," he said. "I may play there yet before it's over."
Since leaving office in January, Mr. Clinton has struggled to construct his civilian identity. He spent weeks fending off questions about a series of last-minute pardons, and has given dozens of well-paid speeches as part of an effort to pay off his legal bills. He plans to write his memoirs, and to raise money for the Democratic Party and his presidential library in Arkansas. 
He has kept a low profile, but he shed it yesterday, taking the opportunity to outline his public service priorities for the coming months.
He said he wanted to promote economic opportunity here and abroad, to help the fight against AIDS, globally and locally, and "to try to help people make a community from the great diversity we've got," whether in Harlem or around the world. 
Saying that a sign in the audience that asked what he had done for Harlem as president posed a "a fair question," he touted his administration's record, citing everything from the economic boom, to the private investment lured by the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, to declines in unemployment and welfare rolls. "I think I kept my word to Harlem," he said.
Of his new neighborhood, he said: "Harlem always struck me as a place that was human and alive, where there was a rhythm to life and a song in the heart, where no matter how bad it was, people held up their heads and went on, and where, when things got good, people were grateful and cared about their neighbors."
Well before Mr. Clinton arrived, the plaza had morphed into a town square of sorts. Wearing a black doorman's hat, a uniform trimmed with red and green piping and the collar rank of a five-star general, Malik Zulu Shabazz led members of New Black Panthers for Self-Defense -- themselves in black paramilitary uniforms -- in the black power salute (a raised clenched fist) and chants of "Harlem is ours." 
A woman yelled in response: "Harlem is ours, all of ours, and we welcome the former president." 
Nearby, Rich Bartee, whose hat bore the words "The Hugmaster," led a group of children in chanting and singing, "More hugging/Less mugging/More hugging/Less drugging." And almost every Harlem resident on hand seemed to be sharing his or her thoughts with reporters.
Some argued among themselves: about the Panthers, and about whether Mr. Clinton was good for Harlem. ("Yes" seemed to be the majority opinion, though certainly not the unanimous one.) People wore buttons with Mr. Clinton's visage -- with prepresidency brown hair -- and waved fans that also had Mr. Clinton's face on them. 
And when the festivities finally got under way about 12:30 p.m. -- an hour and a half later than advertised -- the crowd sang along, as did Mr. Clinton, to a violin version of "We Shall Overcome" and a rousing saxophone rendition of "Stand by Me." 
Current and former elected officials, among them former Mayor David N. Dinkins, State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, sang the praises of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Rangel, who had helped bring both the empowerment zone and Mr. Clinton to Harlem. Randy A. Daniels, Gov. George E. Pataki's secretary of state and a Harlem resident, presented Mr. Clinton with a proclamation from the governor declaring yesterday "William Jefferson Clinton Day" in the community. Throughout, the protest chants continued. 
After Mr. Clinton finished speaking, singing, and swaying, he came down to press hands in the exuberant crowd. He even gave a few hugs that would have made the Hugmaster proud.
Then it was off to Sylvia's Also, part of the famous Harlem restaurant, to greet the faithful, and to eat. (Mr. Clinton did stop to make it clear that he would also be spending considerable time at the Harlem Y.M.C.A.)
He was then driven back to his office, which is still under renovation; he spent the afternoon there before attending the Entertainer's Basketball Classic at Holcombe Rucker Park with the National Basketball Association's commissioner, David Stern.
On 126th Street, the site of the office building's back entrance, residents sat on their stoops and watched Secret Service agents loiter on the sidewalk, as sure a sign as the home renovations under way nearby that that their neighborhood would never be quite the same again.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some people in a crowd of 2,000 waited two hours to see Bill Clinton, who has opened an office in Harlem. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1); A group of students from Soweto, South Africa, welcomed former President Bill Clinton in Harlem yesterday. The students are in the city for three weeks with the Department of Youth and Community Development. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Map of Harlem highlighting Clinton's Office: Bill Clinton's new office is at 55 West 125th Street in Harlem. (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); THEATER (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MAYORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); TRENDS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS; SMALL BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); RICK PERRY (60%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) CLINTON, BILL; RANGEL, CHARLES B (REPR); WALDMAN, AMY; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%) HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



831 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Report on Fuel Economy Is Less Optimistic in Final Form 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 30 

 BODY:
As the House prepares to debate this week how much automakers should improve the fuel economy of new automobiles, a federal panel produced a carefully hedged report today saying that considerable gains were possible but might pose safety risks.
 The final report is less optimistic about the opportunities for improving fuel economy than a draft report that the panel sent to nine outside reviewers three weeks ago. The final report foresees significant improvements in gas mileage over the next 15 years, instead of the 6 to 10 years cited in the executive summary of the draft, and does not include a statement that fuel-economy gains can be made with minimal changes in vehicles' weight and minimal effects on safety. 
 The report immediately became the subject of a tugging match pitting the White House and conservative Republicans in Congress, who want the administration to decide fuel-economy policy, against Democrats and moderate Republicans in Congress, who want Congress to pass a law raising gas mileage standards. 
Each Transportation Department budget for the last six years has contained a provision that bars the spending of any government money to review or change fuel-economy policies. The provision was pushed through by Republican majorities in the House and Senate to prevent President Bill Clinton from raising gas-mileage standards. But the provision passed in last year's budget bill, when President Clinton was still in office, remains in effect through Sept. 30 and has prevented the Bush administration from pre-empting Congress by taking action on fuel-economy regulations.
President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney said earlier this year that they were waiting for the report from a National Academy of Sciences panel before deciding how to proceed on the fuel-economy portion of their energy policy. But Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said today that the budget provision would allow administration officials only to read the study, not give it a more serious review.
"The prohibition that the Congress has passed on the administration reviewing the National Academy of Sciences' study destines the study to gather dust until October," Mr. Fleischer said during his daily briefing today. "And that's why the administration has strongly urged Congress to remove the prohibition."
The House is scheduled to take up the fuel-economy issue on Wednesday or Thursday. A bill supported by conservative Republicans and sent to the House floor by the Energy and Commerce Committee calls for the administration to require a small increase by 2010 in the gas mileage of light trucks, a category that encompasses sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans. Democrats and moderate Republicans hope to amend that bill on the floor with a provision that would require light trucks to begin achieving the same gas mileage as cars.
Current regulations require each automaker to produce a fleet of cars with an average gas mileage of 27.5 miles a gallon and a fleet of light trucks with an average of 20.7 miles a gallon. The regulations also allow automakers to use a special system for calculating fuel economy that adds an extra 18 percent to vehicles' actual fuel economy.
Another rule allows automakers to add up to 1.2 miles a gallon to the actual fuel economy of their fleets if they produce large numbers of vehicles that can burn either gasoline or ethanol. While large numbers of these dual-fuel vehicles are being manufactured, the report concluded that very few of them are burning ethanol, and the report recommended that the program be canceled.
Politicians and lobbyists on both sides of the fuel-economy debate argued today that the report supported their points of view while sparring over changes made between the draft report and the final version.
Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who favors higher fuel-economy standards, said, "Congress should act, and I think over all this is a very positive report for increasing fuel efficiency." She said that the report still favored her view that raising gas-mileage standards would slow global-warming gas emissions and improve safety. 
The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers took the opposite view, contending that the report showed that fuel-economy issues were so complex that they would have to be handled by the Transportation Department. In a statement reviewing the report, the alliance chose to emphasize some statements that had been changed between the draft report and the final report, particularly regarding safety.
The final report said that the shift toward smaller and lighter vehicles that followed sharp increases in fuel economy during the Carter administration had been linked to "an additional 1,300 to 2,600 traffic fatalities in 1993." But other passages in the report were less pessimistic about the safety consequences of an increase in gas-mileage standards, and two panel members dissented from the majority on whether there was even a connection between vehicle weight and the overall number of traffic fatalities.
Auto industry lobbyists and environmentalists alike contacted members of the panel after an article about the draft report appeared in The New York Times on July 17, Paul R. Portney, the panel's chairman, said at a news conference today. But the draft report was reworked not because of outside contacts but because of 400 comments received from the nine outside reviewers and because members of the panel spotted errors in the draft report and changed their minds about some issues, he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Toning Down a Report on Gas Mileage"The final report from a National Academy of Sciences panel on raising fuel-economy requirements was less optimistic than the draft report sent to outside reviewers early this month. Here are some of the changes made between the draft and final reports: TIME PERIOD FOR FUEL-ECONOMY GAINS: The 13-member panel said it had made a mistakein the executive summary of its draft report in stating how long it would take to improve gas mileage. DRAFT REPORT: Technology exists that could be incorporated into passenger cars and light-duty trucks, within the next 6-10 years, which would provide significant improvements in fuel economy. FINAL REPORT: Technologies exist that, if applied to passenger cars and light-duty trucks, would significantly reduce fuel consumption within 15 years. TRAFFIC SAFETY EFFECTS OF HIGHER MILEAGE: The panel split, with two members writing a dissent to say that fuel economy could be raised without affecting safety, while the rest of the panel opted for warning of safety problems. DRAFT REPORT: Significant fuel-economy gains in all vehicles can be achieved with minimal or no weight reduction and therefore minimal negative safety implications. FINAL REPORT: Sentence deleted. OVERALL RECOMMENDATIONThe committee toned down its final recommendation, saying that elected officials should decide whether to require tougher fuel-economy standards. DRAFT REPORT: Because of concerns about greenhouse gas emissions and the level of oil imports, the federal government should intervene to increase gradually the fuel economy of the personal vehicle fleet beyond that expected to result from market forces alone. FINAL REPORT: Because of concerns about greenhouse gas emissions and the level of oil imports, it is appropriate for the federal government to ensure fuel-economy levels beyond those expected to result from market forces alone. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CONSERVATISM (88%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PICKUP TRUCKS (72%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%) TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (87%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); DICK CHENEY (53%) BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 



832 of 832 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Shares Fall as 3 Top Analysts Say Outlook Has Dimmed

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks fell in dull trading yesterday as three of Wall Street's top strategists cut their year-end profit estimates for America's biggest companies, underscoring investors' worries over sagging corporate earnings in a sluggish economy.
 "We think a very cautious approach to the U.S. equity market makes a lot of sense until there are unambiguous signs of a real earnings recovery," Douglas R. Cliggott, the chief portfolio strategist at J. P. Morgan Chase & Company, told clients in a note. 
 Mr. Cliggott, the only major forecaster to predict last year's broad market decline, cut his 2001 year-end target for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to 1,100 from 1,200 -- 8.6 percent below current levels. Edward M. Kerschner of UBS Warburg and Thomas M. Galvin of Credit Suisse First Boston also trimmed their 2001 outlook for the S.& P. 500. 
A dearth of economic data or important corporate earnings reports left trading volumes among the lightest this year in a session typical of what are often called the dog days of summer.
Major market gauges moved sideways most of the day before slipping into negative territory. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index lost 11.23 points, or 0.55 percent, to 2,017.84, and the Dow Jones industrial average, fell 14.95 points, or 0.14 percent, to 10,401.72. The broader Standard & Poor's index slipped 1.3 points, or 0.11 percent, to 1,204.52.
Trade volumes, just shy of 881 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange and 1.29 billion shares on Nasdaq, were among the lightest this year on both markets.
"The biggest thing on investors' minds is how busy the golf course is, where the nicest vacation is," said Jim Oberweis, president of Oberweis Asset Management, which oversees $300 million. "Investors are pretty well cognizant of the fact that earnings for the second quarter were not good. I wouldn't be surprised to see the third quarter even more difficult than the second quarter was."
Today, in contrast to yesterday, is full of economic data that could influence the market. The reports include personal income for June, weekly retail sales and consumer confidence for July.
General Electric lost $1.05, to $43.60, in active trading on its plans to buy Heller Financial Inc. for about $5.3 billion. Heller soared $17.09, to $52.99, or 47.6 percent. 
Microsoft rose 33 cents, to $65.80, helping both the Nasdaq and the Dow, after The Financial Times reported that company is determined to prevent AOL Time Warner from acquiring or buying a stake in AT&T Corporation's cable business. AOL eked out a gain of 1 cent, to $45.15, and AT&T, a Dow stock, shed 24 cents, to $20.24.
The Swedish mobile phone maker Ericsson gained 45 cents, to $5.30. Dagens Industri, a Swedish newspaper, said an internal Ericsson report showed the company was on track to exceed its cost-cutting target in information technology as well as research and development.
Rising in sympathy, the American cell phone maker Motorola added 3 cents, to $19.03, and Nokia of Finland rose 43 cents, to $21.63.
Adobe Systems, the desktop publishing software provider, dropped $2.52, to $40.54. It said it should meet its earnings targets, but warned that revenue could fall because of weaker-than-expected conditions across its product lines.
Aviron fell $13.59, or more than 33 percent, to $27.21. The pharmaceutical company said it would not be able to introduce its nasal spray vaccine in time for the coming flu season after a regulatory panel voted against recommending approval of the spray, citing safety concerns.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (60%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (85%); AOL INC (80%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); HELLER FINANCIAL INC (62%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (61%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (85%); AOL (NYSE) (80%); JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (80%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (80%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2001 

 
