

1 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 2325 words

HEADLINE: An Ode to Loved Labors Lost 

 BODY:
Tom Brokaw, managing editor of NBC Nightly News:
 In the summer of my 15th year I was hired as a counselor at a Boy Scout camp in southwestern Minnesota. I was paid $100 for the two-month season and my accommodations were a tent, a Coleman lantern and empty orange crates that doubled as end tables, bureaus and book cases. 
 More important, I was on my own, 200 miles from home, and a member of the camp royalty, the waterfront staff. We lived in a little lakeside compound, well away from the rowdiness of the weekly campers, and we supervised the most popular activities: swimming, canoeing, boating and life-saving techniques. I was the junior member of the team. In one tent were Dan and Mike, scholarly college students headed for Lutheran seminary and then Ph.D.'s. My tent-mate was Eldon, an equally studious high school senior who went on to Harvard, his own Ph.D. and a career in academia. 
During the day I could hold my own in the water and in the canoes but when darkness came, Dan, Mike and Eldon waded into "War and Peace," "Crime and Punishment," the works of Huxley and other deep thinkers, discussing their merits and puzzling over their larger meaning. Or they would turn to theology, with the Lutherans making flanking moves on Eldon, the son of a Congregational college professor. The lively and provocative arguments would go on into the Minnesota summer night, accompanied by the soft hissing sound of the lanterns.
I sat off to the side, trying to assimilate what I could, and sensing for the first time in my young life the genuine excitement of wrestling with big ideas, and the force of intellectual curiosity.
Almost a half-century later I still remember those evenings but I also remember a fetching, slightly older girl, in a nearby town. Her father loaned me one of the family cars so I could take his daughter to a drive-in movie theater where the lessons were some distance from Russian literature or Lutheran theology.
Suzanne Vega, singer-songwriter:
I've had many summer jobs -- as a baby sitter, a traveling performer, a disco-dance and folk-singing counselor at a sleep-away camp -- but one of the most interesting was as a messenger in New York City in 1977. That was the summer it hit 104 degrees and Son of Sam was on the loose. All summer long, I traveled on foot, making pickups and deliveries for an illustration company whose office was near Times Square.
I got quite a few interesting propositions as I traipsed around 42nd Street. I was asked to join several religious cults and some guy named Joe said he'd make a model out of me because of my posture. "Straight as an arrow," he shouted and waved a card at me that said "No Nudity" on it. I didn't take him up on it.
I always did find the beauty business fascinating, but I didn't have much luck working in it. My least favorite summer job, and the one I was least suited to, was as an Avon lady. My sister did it and she made good money, because she had the right personality for it. She could convince you that a certain shade of eye shadow was really flattering even if you never wore eye shadow and had no intention of doing so.
I tried it for a week, with far less success. Some of the problem, I am sure, was the way I dressed at the time: jeans, Converse sneakers and a surplus military jacket, with my hair pulled back in a bun and no make-up. I remember one time knocking on a door and an old man in boxer shorts answered, shouting with laughter, "Hey little lady! You got something to make me beautiful?"
"Afraid not," I muttered, and moved on to the next house. I didn't sell any make-up there -- or, as far as I remember, anywhere else.
Scott Adams, cartoonist and author, most recently, of "Dilbert and the Way of the Weasel":
One summer (I think I was 20), I worked as a bus boy at the Sugar Maples Resort in the Catskill Mountains. Imagine the movie "Dirty Dancing," but uglier and without the dancing. I was spectacularly incompetent but I didn't realize it at the time.
I grew up in a small town, and among the many things I had not done at that point in my life was eat at a restaurant where other people brought the food to your table. It would be fair to say that I didn't fully grasp the subtleties of table service from the customer's perspective. I fancied myself as not just the guy who removed dirty dishes and poured coffee, but also -- and more important -- the entertainment.
The guests ate all their meals in the resort's dining area, where they were waited on by the same people every night of their stay. I figured they had 51 weeks a year to talk among themselves, whereas I had only three meals a day with them for a week, and I didn't want them to waste it on each other.
Armed with coffee and witty comments, I hovered over my audience, ready to pounce. If I saw someone take a sip from the cup, I'd swoop in with smooth lines like, "Let me put a head on that" or, sometimes, "Is that regular or unleaded?" They didn't laugh, but I believed that my omnipresent mirth touched something deep inside their souls. Apparently their souls were not attached in any way to their wallets, because at the end of the week the bus boys would compare tips and I always did the worst.
Fortunately, I learned nothing from the experience, and it was the last time I held a job where the quality of my work influenced my income.
Gary S. Becker, Nobel laureate in economics and professor at the University of Chicago:
My first real job was during the summer when I was 15 years old: I worked in a luncheonette dispensing sandwiches, ice cream sodas and sundaes from 8 p.m. to midnight. Afterward, I would hang out with fellow workers, so I went to bed late and slept in late. I felt like an adult. I had to beg my father to allow me to take this job, since he had to go to work at an early age and wanted an easier life for his children. But to my surprise he eventually agreed it was a good experience for me.
This low-skilled job taught me several lessons. Considerable pride comes from providing one's own income. Although I was only paid 50 cents an hour, which even in those days was not much, I could finance all my spending during the summer.
I learned that bosses could be very demanding and, unlike parents, they did not worry much about your sensitivities. My boss was gruff and quick to criticize, but gradually we developed a good relationship. He did not allow me near the cash register until he began to trust me. I was insulted at first, but this taught me that trust was not automatic and had to be earned. It also helped when the boss realized that I could do arithmetic very well.
This simplest of jobs had a big impact on my thinking, especially since it was at the beginning of a teenage transition from concern only with sports to an interest in the world of books and ideas. That transition would have occurred anyway, but the difficulty and low pay of unskilled labor convinced me that mental work was a lot more satisfying and interesting than physical work. I also realized that financial independence can provide enormous gratification and should become an important goal for the future.
Andre Leon Talley, editor at large for Vogue:
It was 2001 and I had been assigned my first big couture shoot in my many years at Vogue. The magazine's editor in chief, Anna Wintour, had chosen Renee Zellweger for the cover to show off the Paris couture collections. Happily, the photo session evolved into a spontaneous remake of the great fashion film classic, "Funny Face" (the only fashion film that has ever stood the test of time).
Renee was in the Audrey Hepburn role from the film, the photographer Arthur Elgort was Dick Avery, and I guess I played the role of Kay Thompson playing Diana Vreeland. However, I want it to be perfectly clear that I do not see myself as the great Diana Vreeland; more like a high octane Paul Robeson, who brings home the victory from fashion's chiffon trenches.
What I enjoy most about fashion shoots is their unexpected quality, and this particular one did not disappoint. During much of it, we had precious little natural light. When the sun finally came out, I jumped on the opportunity to capture the moment. We hailed a cabbie who happened to be driving around the Place de la Concorde, Renee changed into a Chanel dress and stepped out onto the cobblestone street looking every bit the couture ideal.
It was that spontaneity that ensured a great photographs, one of my favorites. So, just when you feel like you're at your lowest ebb and you think, not another show, not another season, not another trip, not another expense report, then something like this comes along and beauty explodes.
Ari Fleischer, president of Ari Fleischer Communciations and former White House press secretary:
Growing up in Pound Ridge, N.Y. (population about 4,000), I spent many fun-filled summers at the town's day camp, where I hid in the woods, made ice cream, found my way through a wooden maze that was taller than the tallest 10-year-old, and of course, swam, swam, swam.
When I turned 13 and heard that the camp was offering summer jobs for counselors-in-training, I jumped at the opportunity. I wouldn't be paid but if I did well, a promotion to junior counselor, at $75 a summer, would be in the offing for the following summer.
As a counselors-in-training, my friends and I thought we owned the camp. Of course, more senior counselors and the camp director himself were watching, but for us, what could be more fun than inventing, supervising and playing games every day in the sun?
One of the best things about being a counselor at a camp where I'd once been a camper was that I was able to participate in the activities I'd loved for years -- and come up with some new ones. My friends and I started a baseball team, traveling to other day camps in the area for games. It wasn't quite seeing the world, but we did get to know northern Westchester. I hid in the woods during nature walks and roared like a lion at the campers (my counselors did it to me when I was younger and keeping the tradition alive seemed the right thing to do). We had movie nights. And of course, the maze was older, but the campers still tried to find their way through it.
Summer ended, but my love of children and the Pound Ridge Day Camp didn't. I became a junior counselor in the summer of 1975 and a full counselor in 1976. I've held many jobs since then, none of which were picnics in the park. But in each, I have tried to find at least a piece of the good-hearted fun and joy I knew during those summers at camp.
Laurie Notaro, author of "Autobiography of a Fat Bride":
During the summer of 1981 in Phoenix, I was not Casual Corner compatible. "I still have your applications on file from the last six Saturdays you filled them out," the manager informed me, looking disdainfully at my best prairie skirt, Yo-Yo shoes and misdirected attempt at Charlene Tilton hair. "Maybe you should try . . . the Gap."
The Gap, at least several marketing campaigns away from reaching cool status, also rejected me. The manager suggested I should redirect my energies toward the food court at the Paradise Valley Mall. A week later, I found myself wearing a grimy Pizza D'Amore T-shirt. 
Still, the job had its perks. There was no need to worry about creating a Dallas-worthy 'do, because everyone's hair looks the same under a tight, black net; I received a once-in-a lifetime opportunity to have my fingerprints eliminated via the 600-degree oven by a fellow worker on parole; and my favorite co-workers, Roberto, Angel and Javier, decided to learn English by listening to the entire Beatles' catalog, and inserted my name in every new chorus they learned. It was like having my own private choir. 
The highlight of my career, however, came when Sugar Ray Leonard and his son showed up at my register, wanting three slices of pepperoni. I picked out the three freshest pieces for Fighter of the Decade and showed my respect by arranging the pepperonis to read "S" "R" and "L," on each slice. When I handed him his lunch, our fingers grazed, as every face in the Pizza of Love looked on in complete silence, obvious that the joint would never know another moment as magical.
The next day, when the Casual Corner manager came for lunch, she looked at me and sneered. I, however, thought to myself, When is the last time she's been regularly serenaded and then got to pretty much hold hands with an Olympic gold winner and boxing superstar? Probably never, I smiled. And then I charged her a dollar extra.
Alice Waters, founder of Chez Panisse restaurant in Berkeley, Calif.:
After I graduated from college, I taught at a Montessori school in Berkeley. Montessori teachers practice a philosophy that says you can reach all children if you awaken their senses. We lured the children with lessons in "practical life skills": We taught them to wash their hands, set the table, pour from pitchers and sweep into a dustpan --little exercises in sensual awareness that focused their concentration. We taught them sorting and matching skills by letting them play games with dried beans and canisters of strong-smelling substances. We had a little garden that we all helped take care of.
The theory was that instead of forcing the students to focus on correcting their mistakes, you invited them to participate in activities where their senses were engaged by something beautiful and real, and in the process they learned how rich and beautiful their lives could be. 
This is what I've tried to practice ever since, as a cook and restaurateur. I still use this approach when I introduce new employees to Chez Panisse. I take them on a tour to give them a sensory understanding of the restaurant. We walk into the refrigerators, through the kitchens, to the room where we cure meat, and out to the garbage to see how we compost the kitchen scraps. When all our senses are wide open, information floods in, reason dawns, and we learn that we're connected to one another.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Kim Roberson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); SONG WRITING (60%); CULTS & SECTS (50%) Labor; Temporary Employment

PERSON: Tom Brokaw; Suzanne Vega; Scott Adams; Gary S (Dr) Becker; Andre Leon Talley; Ari Fleischer; Laurie Notaro; Alice Waters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



2 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
More Companies Are Routing Calls via Internet

BYLINE:  By ADAM BAUMAN

 BODY:
It was after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, that Tom Pyke, the chief information officer for the Department of Commerce, realized that he needed to expand the agency's emergency communications. Just over a year later, in December 2002, after a competitive selection process, a new telephone system was installed to support 4,000 people at agency headquarters in Washington and another 6,000 at the department's nearby Bureau of the Census.
 Instead of selecting conventional phones, the Commerce Department chose a setup made by Cisco Systems that uses Internet Protocol, or I.P., technology. The system routes internal voice communications over the same lines as e-mail messages and other data traffic. It also has a function that allows an emergency message to be broadcast to all phones. 
 The department is saving many of the fees tied to conventional phone service between employees, and it is saving maintenance and support costs on the 132 older telephone systems that the new Internet-based system has replaced. "Over 25 percent of our 40,000 employees are now using this technology," Mr. Pyke said.
Internet telephony, as it is known, is no longer restricted to adventurous techies. The technology, based on software technology that enables the Internet to route traffic, has matured to the point that voice quality is virtually indistinguishable from that of a conventional phone call.
The systems are flexible, enabling calls to be routed through a company's internal data network, the public Internet or both. Besides major agencies like the Commerce Department, Internet telephony is being adopted by businesses, including JetBlue Airways and the bank holding company SouthTrust, based in Birmingham, Ala.
About 2 percent of United States businesses were using some form of Internet telephony by the end of last year, according to the market research firm In-Stat/MDR. The firm cites the cost savings as a primary motivation for using the systems and predicts that one in five companies will be doing so by 2007. 
Industry analysts say that the equipment costs of an Internet telephone system are lower than the those of a comparable-size conventional system that uses an on-site switch known as a PBX and the handsets that work with it. A company with 100 employees, for example, would spend about $600 a phone to buy a conventional PBX system, but $500 a phone for an Internet setup, said Nick Lippis, the president of Lippis Enterprises, a network computing consulting firm in Hingham, Mass. 
A spokesman for Cisco Systems, Jim Brady, said that in 2002, Cisco's I.P. phones displaced approximately 2,000 traditional PBX circuit-based phones each business day; a year later, in 2003, that figure has more than doubled.
Charles Giancarlo, general manager of product development for Cisco, said his company was now replacing more than 5,000 traditional phones a day with I.P. phones. "The unalterable direction now is I.P. telephony," Mr. Giancarlo said, "and it is just a matter of time before I.P. telephony extends itself to the consumer market as well." Cisco makes Internet telephone switches and phones, among other products, and says it has more than 10,000 Internet telephony customers. 
SouthTrust, which has nearly 700 bank branches in the Southeast, has almost completely replaced its PBX systems with Internet telephony, all controlled from a switch in Birmingham that was made by Cisco Systems. Stan Adams, the group vice president of network services at SouthTrust, said the company was saving more than $5 million a year using the system, which it began phasing in three years ago.
SouthTrust saves money because it no longer needs on-site support at each bank branch, with such tasks now able to be performed from the central switch in Birmingham, said Don Proctor, the general manager of Cisco's voice technology group. This capability was not possible with traditional phone systems, he said. 
Even though the traditional phone companies have billions of dollars invested in their older technology, they are likely to move toward offering some form of Internet services. But they will probably be collecting significant revenues from their local and long-distance services for some time to come. For one, a company must make a considerable investment to switch to Internet telephony. And calls to parties outside the company often must still use the conventional public network for at least part of the call.
But Mr. Lippis said that because in many businesses about 30 percent of voice traffic is between employees in various branch offices, using an Internet system for all employees can shave 30 percent off the company's phone bill.
One company that has seen cost savings from an Internet-based system is JetBlue Airways, the upstart discount airline. It uses Internet technology to create a "virtual call center" for its 700-plus reservation agents, who work from home in and around Salt Lake City, using computers and equipment provided by JetBlue. 
The commute to work is as quick as a mouse click for the reservation agents, who use application software known as Avaya Softphone. The software connects them to the airline's Internet telephony switch, which routes customer reservations calls to them. 
Frankie Littleford, JetBlue's vice president for reservations, said the airline was saving money by not needing to maintain office space for its call agents. "We will handle 9.6 million phone calls in 2003," Ms. Littleford said, "and all of those will be routed to at-home representatives." 
Besides Cisco and Avaya (a Lucent Technologies spinoff) companies that produce Internet telephony gear include Alcatel, Mitel, Nortel, Siemens and 3Com. Cisco predicts that the market for such systems will reach $15 billion within four years. Jorge Blanco, the vice president for product marketing at Avaya, also sees a growing market. "I think that 2003 is turning out to be a giant leap forward for I.P. telephony," he said.
As the adoption of Internet telephony by mainstream businesses continues to speed up, at least one influential communications industry group is embracing the technology. The Telecommunications Industry Association, which is based in Arlington, Va., and represents communications equipment makers, has replaced its own 10-year-old PBX with a new Internet system. 
"These new phones and features, I think, will revolutionize the way any business operates," predicted Matthew Flanigan, the association's president. "I think it gives the ability for all of the workers to be much more efficient and accomplish a lot more at your desk, and I think that is crucial for the economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Pyke, of the federal Department of Commerce, which installed an Internet phone system. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (89%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); COMPUTER TELEPHONY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CENSUS (72%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); NETWORK PROTOCOLS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (62%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (62%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (62%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (95%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (95%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (95%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (66%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: PYKE, TOM ; adam bauman

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (68%) ALABAMA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



3 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
Switching to the power ofthe sun to help limit blackouts and save money too.

BYLINE:  By Teresa Riordan

 BODY:
ANAND RANGARAJAN'S claims are not modest. His company's technology, he says, not only has the potential to limit power blackouts but also promises to reduce pollution and save billions in energy costs.
 Dr. Rangarajan and his colleague, Thomas McNulty, have invented a system for switching to backup solar power within seconds of a power failure. In June Dr. Rangarajan, who is executive vice president of the WorldWater Corporation, a solar-energy technology company in Pennington, N.J., and Mr. McNulty, its director of engineering, received patent 6,583,522 for the idea. 
 "We can sense the power has gone down and reconfigure the pumps and the solar panels in an instant," Dr. Rangarajan said. "It doesn't require any operator intervention."
The technology was first developed not with urban New Yorkers in mind but, rather, California farmers. With a state economy beset by an energy crisis in recent years, farmers in California have suffered blackouts at the worst times: on hot, dry days when crops most need to be irrigated by electrically powered systems.
Dr. Rangarajan and Mr. McNulty have essentially patented a box that combines switches and electrical circuits, permitting a supple integration between solar and electrical power. When the power grid is supplying electricity normally, the box routes excess power to the utility. If the power grid goes down, the box shuts off its connection with the utility, reconfigures voltages and routes electricity back to the irrigation system.
This permits current to keep flowing, but not along the power grid, which for safety considerations must not have any current moving on it while it is being repaired.
This same system, says WorldWater's founder and chief executive, Quentin Kelly, can be altered to be used by companies as different as shopping centers and utilities.
"This technology is very critical to help reduce loads on grids during peak power," said Scott Sklar, an author of "Consumer Guide to Solar Energy: New Ways to Lower Utility Costs, Cut Taxes and Take Control of Your Energy Needs" (Bonus Books, 2002) and a consultant who has occasionally given advice to WorldWater. "As it gets more mature I would think that utilities would begin using it."
But not anytime soon. "Utilities don't step out in front of anything," Mr. Sklar said. "They are never the change agents of technology."
Likely early adopters are water and sewage plants like New York City's pumping stations, which dumped 490 million gallons of raw sewage into waterways in the recent blackout.
"We could have actually prevented this from happening with our solar technology," Dr. Rangarajan said. Water and waste utilities have additional incentive to buy solar backup systems. Unlike an investment in diesel-powered generators, he said, the solar technology ultimately pays for itself. That is because the solar power generated can be used to run the plant or sold back to the utility in a system known as "net metering."
"Up to 80 percent of a typical water utility's expenses go for paying electric bills," Dr. Rangarajan said. "What we're saying is put in our solar system and at the same time you not only have a green backup system but also save on energy bills."
The system is also ideal for developing countries, he said. A WorldWater system is being used at Central Luzon State University in the Philippines.
Dr. Rangarajan has been working on solar power since he was at Lincoln Laboratories at M.I.T. in the 1970's. Has he been frustrated at the slow rate of acceptance of solar technology?
"That is putting it mildly," Dr. Rangarajan said. "All my life I've been striving to bring solar into the mainstream. The solar business is still seen in kind of a marginal way in most places. But I think the timing is finally right."

Patents may be viewed on the Web at www.uspto.gov or may be ordered through the mail, by patent number, for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anand Rangarajan, left, and Thomas McNulty have patented a device that allows the integration of solar and electrical power. (Photo by Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (92%); SOLAR ENERGY (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PATENTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); IRRIGATION (72%); RETAILERS (62%); WRITERS (62%) Electric Light and Power; Inventions and Patents; Solar Energy

COMPANY: ENTECH SOLAR INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLDWATER CORP (WWAT) ; Worldwater Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS221119 OTHER ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%)

PERSON: RANGARAJAN, ANANAD ; Teresa Riordan; Anand (Dr) Rangarajan; Thomas McNulty

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



4 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Trouble in Counterculture Utopia 

BYLINE:  By BILL WERDE 

DATELINE: BLACK ROCK DESERT, Nev., Aug. 31 

 BODY:
From all across the desert they came, with luminescent wires in their hair or war paint on their faces. As drum circles pounded out tribal rhythms and roving sound systems blasted techno beats, they walked in their elaborate homemade costumes or drove in bizarre vehicles. They hooted and they cheered, and most of all they came to burn the Man.
 The 77-foot-high, skeletal neon-colored Man towers above the center of the Burning Man festival. Every year this weeklong event creates Nevada's fifth largest city in population (about 30,000) before culminating on Labor Day. This year's Burning Man has largely been business as usual. Burners, as festivalgoers are known, can wander five square miles of theme camps, art installations, music, performance pieces and other Burners, expressing themselves in wildly free-spirited ways. 
 "Burn the Man!" hundreds cried, their faces aglow with the yellow-orange light of flame. "Burn him!" Others voiced compassion; a chain of 15 or 20 people snaked through the crowd with signs that read "Free the Man." At 9:40 p.m. a barrage of fireworks and explosives lighted the Saturday night sky and the Man disappeared beneath a pyre that swirled more than 150 feet into the dusty desert air. 
The corporation that organizes the event, the Black Rock City L.L.C., has held the festival here, about 120 miles north of Reno, almost every year since moving it from San Francisco in 1990. But even as this year's desert dramas -- imagined or certifiable -- unfolded, most of the artists and revelers have been blissfully unaware of another set of Burning Man theatrics centering on about 200 acres a half-hour drive away. 
Black Rock Desert may be synonymous with Burning Man to the thousands who come here each year, but it is another swath of desert in Washoe County, those acres owned by Black Rock City in the adjacent Hualapai Valley, that may determine the future of the event and the $10 million or so a year that it pumps into the hard-pressed local economy.
Festival officials call that land the ranch, and they say it is essential to the future of Burning Man. The acreage is a staging ground where the organizers prepare for the festival and store its considerable infrastructure. It is covered with piles of mechanical and structural debris from previous festivals; a Quonset hut housing woodworking and metalworking shops; fuel tanks; and remnants from dozens of past art installations. But to the site's neighbors and a powerful local businessman, the land is an eyesore and a fire hazard; to county officials it is a splitting headache because it is at the heart of a dispute that after a year of legal and political wrangling has arrived at a stalemate.
Black Rock City bought the land for $70,000 in 2001 because its use of the festival grounds was limited to a month or so a year, under a permit from the federal Bureau of Land Management. That purchase quickly roused opponents. One complaint -- its source has not been revealed by the authorities -- prompted a three-month investigation by Washoe County officials. The county's planning commission ultimately approved three special-use permits for things like storing vehicles, custom manufacturing and salvage operations. The commission also attached more than 90 conditions that had to be met to bring the property up to health, safety and fire codes.
The commission's approval drew an appeal by five residents, who cited insufficient water supplies, potential fire hazards and leftover debris. Among those residents are Michael B. Stewart, whose businesses in the area includes Orient Farms, where he grows garlic; and High Rock Holding L.L.C., a geothermal power company. On May 13 Washoe County commissioners sided with them, reversing the planning commission's approval by a 3-to-2 vote and denying Black Rock City the special-use permits. The company's director, Larry Harvey, likened the ruling to a vote to shut down the Burning Man operation. 
Fewer than four weeks later Black Rock City filed a lawsuit seeking $40 million in damages from the county if it were forced to cancel its festival; this year's event was allowed to proceed while a compromise with the county was being negotiated.
Whether the parties can reach an agreement is far from certain. Sitting at their kitchen table, Lou and Sylvia Fascio, who were among the residents who signed the appeal, show photos to support their claim that the Burning Man operation is a hazard. One shows a 110-foot-long bus converted to look like a dragon, which they say was driving without a permit on a local highway. Others show what appear to be piles of junk and Burning Man workers idly watching a substantial blaze on the property.
"Let them move to Mustang," Mrs. Fascio said, referring to a nearby town. "None of us here in the valley want them here."
Festival organizers say they are bringing their fire preparedness up to code, installing fire breaks around the property and keeping 40,000 gallons of water on hand. They also say they have removed 30 truckloads of debris and 20 abandoned cars.
Mr. Harvey, the chain-smoking, Stetson-wearing impresario of the festival, acknowledges that some complaints about the property's appearance are legitimate, but he contends that Mr. Stewart wants the land for water.
"Three underground rivers intersect below the property," Mr. Harvey said. "And Fly Geyser is right next door. Mike Stewart owns a geothermal plant and has made an offer on the property. So what is this really about?"
Mr. Stewart declined to comment. But Donna Potter, the environmental coordinator for Mr. Stewart's companies, said the idea that Mr. Stewart wanted the land for geothermal development was ridiculous.
With a $40 million suit hanging over them, Washoe County officials are working on potential zoning solutions and establishing new deadlines for complying with county codes. A meeting has been set for Thursday involving county commissioners, Burning Man representatives and their local opponents. 
"We're hoping to educate the commissioners about the issues," said Marion Goodell, Burning Man's communications director. "We're determined. Worst-case scenario: we'll spend a lot of money, and we'll be on that property. Best-case scenario: we'll work with our neighbors and the county and be on that property."
Mr. Fascio is equally resolute. "I don't know why they want a meeting," he said. "As far as I'm concerned, the county commissioners said no. What's left to discuss? Let them have their day in court."
No court date has been set, but Black Rock City officials said they had begun to entertain offers to relocate their event. One possibility is a Paiute reservation at Pyramid Lake in Nevada; another, in southern Nevada, is in Esmeralda County, whose officials have been courting the event, Burning Man organizers say. 
Neither is a perfect fit. Esmeralda is closer to Los Angeles than to San Francisco, home to more Burners than any other city. And while moving the event to a reservation would keep some government regulators at bay, the Paiute are intolerant of nudity, drugs and alcohol, all of which are common at the festival.
"We need five miles of perfect playa just like this,' said Will Roger, Burning Man's public works director, referring to desert and waving his hand toward the bustling festival grounds. "That's not so easy to find."
Mr. Roger gazed at his art car, a 1986 Chevy Sprint converted to resemble a giant carp and customized with 30-foot flame throwers. "This is a matter of perspective," he said. "What our opposition calls rubbish, I call art materials. What they call a salvage yard, I call a recycling center."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Seeking countercultural idealism and hedonistic creativity, thousands attend Burning Man in the Black Rock Desert of Nevada, though the event's base there is in jeopardy. (Photo by Reuters); Torching a gigantic, elaborately lighted effigy is the climactic annual ritual at Burning Man. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. E5); Black Rock Desert in Nevada, top, is home to the Burning Man gathering, where art, above, music and free spirits are celebrated. (Photo by Top, Evrim D. Cakir for The New York Times; above, Associated Press)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC (73%); US LABOR DAY (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); COUNTIES (66%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (66%) CULTURE; BURNING MAN FESTIVAL 

PERSON: STEWART, MICHAEL; WERDE, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) BLACK ROCK DESERT (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



5 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2182 words

HEADLINE: Care of Juvenile Offenders In Mississippi Is Faulted 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, Miss. 

 BODY:
One Saturday morning not long ago, when Bill C. drove 80 miles to the Columbia Training School to see his 15-year-old daughter, locked up by the state of Mississippi for skipping school, she held up her hands and showed him dozens of nicks and cuts. Staff members had forced her to do scores of squat-thrusts on gravel, she quietly told her father, and refused her so much as a Band-Aid for her bloody hands.
 "They said, 'You did it to yourself on purpose,' " she told her father, who insisted that their names not be printed out of fear of reprisals against his daughter. 
 When Jason, 15, was ordered to the Oakley Training School in March after a string of burglaries, he hoped to get treatment for his bipolar disorder, which relatives say arose from sexual abuse he suffered at age 3. But in letters to his father, Jason was soon begging to be transferred to a state mental hospital. 
"I never see a counselor but for two minutes," Jason wrote, in faintly penciled but meticulous handwriting. "I was supposed to come here for punishment and help. Well I had my punishment, now I need help."
Stories like these are among the mildest of the accounts now emerging of life inside the Columbia and Oakley training schools, Mississippi's two state-run institutions for boys and girls deemed juvenile delinquents. 
Established by both federal law and state policy, the schools are supposed to rehabilitate and treat children charged with misdeeds ranging from mischief to homicide. But interviews with relatives of students, as well as with one child released from Columbia, suggest otherwise. Together with a 48-page report made public recently by investigators from the United States Justice Department's civil rights division, they paint a bleak picture of the schools as debilitating dumping grounds for troubled children.
Woefully underfinanced, understaffed and ill-equipped, the schools and their poorly trained workers dole out a volatile mix of physical and verbal abuse and mandatory Bible study, but withhold basic medical care and a decent education -- all in violation of state and federal laws, according to the Justice Department's report.
School officials insist that the worst abuses have either been ended or never took place.
But the federal investigators who descended on the schools four times last year found ample evidence to declare that children as young as 10 were being mistreated:
*Boys and girls were routinely hogtied, shackled to poles or locked in restraint chairs for hours for minor infractions like talking in the cafeteria or not saying "Yes, sir."
*Girls were made to run while carrying tires, boys while holding logs, sometimes to the point of vomiting or injury.
*Boys and girls were choked, slapped, beaten and attacked with pepper spray.
*Girls at Columbia who misbehaved or were on suicide watch were stripped naked and left in a windowless, stifling cinder-block cell, with nothing but the concrete floor to sleep on and a hole in the floor for a toilet, for several days or even a week at a time. One girl had been locked in a bare cell for 114 straight days.

A Widespread Problem
Experts on juvenile justice say that what is happening in Mississippi is by no means rare. Arizona, Arkansas, California, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland and South Dakota, among other states, have all had scandals in recent years over the abuse or deaths of children in juvenile lockups.
"It's amazing -- in the juvenile justice field, you pick up any rock and you find stuff like this," said Jeffrey A. Butts, director of the Urban Institute's Program on Youth Justice, who conducted a study of Mississippi's training school population in 1989.
From the outside, the Mississippi schools look more like rural community colleges -- low-slung, cinder-block buildings scattered across sun-baked meadows, ringed by chain-link fencing -- than the prisons they effectively are. There are more than 300 boys ages 10 to 17 at Oakley, on 1,000 acres at Raymond, a half-hour southwest of Jackson. About 90 girls ages 10 to 18 and about 100 boys 10 to 15 are at Columbia, tucked away between McComb and Hattiesburg in southern Mississippi.
Officials of the Mississippi Division of Youth Services, who have pleaded for more money to hire workers and upgrade the schools, say the schools prepare students for law-abiding, productive adult lives with military-style discipline, individually tailored psychotherapy and counseling, health care and as solid an education as in the public schools.
But the Justice Department's report found many examples of children being denied care and education:
*The acting head nurse at Columbia ignored children's injuries and illnesses, refused help to girls fainting from heat and blocked access to the visiting doctor. The nurse at Oakley was seen immunizing two children for Hepatitis B with the same needle. Dental care was "nonexistent," and the dental clinic at Oakley was a mess of mouse droppings, dead roaches and long-expired medicines.
*New students at both schools were kept out of classes for three to five weeks, violating state compulsory attendance laws. They were routinely pulled from class for work details, and those in isolation got sporadic instruction or none at all.
*Though mentally ill and retarded children belong elsewhere, 66 to 85 percent of the training schools' students were found to have mental disorders and 9 percent weresuicidal. Yet psychiatrists spent just one day a month on campus, mainly performing court evaluations, not treating patients. Counselors handled as many as 30 children each, allowing for little of the personal attention required by law.
Perhaps most alarming about the Justice Department's conclusions, however, is how loudly they echo those of a federal judge in a landmark 1977 court ruling on conditions at Oakley. The judge ordered the hiring of more outside doctors, a full-time psychologist or psychiatrist, and enough counselors so that each handled no more than 20 students. He also ordered that children not be held in isolation cells for more than 24 hours -- and then only if they posed a threat to themselves or others. But solitary confinement persists, according to the new Justice Department report, which urged the shutdown of the schools' isolation cells. And a nonprofit group is seeking to have the earlier suit reopened.

Concern and Finances Wane
Experts say there is little mystery about how the training schools reached such a state. Public concern for treating juvenile offenders has waned, as has the attention of child-advocacy groups to battles considered already won. Legislators have repeatedly cut financing for the schools. And a 2001 state law made it easier for public schools to expel "habitually disruptive" students.
Nationally, experts trace the harshening of attitudes toward juvenile offenders to the early 1990's, a time of soaring crime rates and sensational school shootings.
"But the truth was the spike in youth crime had more to do with guns and the crack epidemic," said Richard Mendel, who has studied juvenile justice for the Annie E. Casey Foundation, an advocacy organization for disadvantaged children. "When those dissipated, the economy improved, the crime rate went back to normal, and the issue lost its immediacy."
But while the nation's juvenile violent crime rate fell 40 percent from 1994 to 2000, and the juvenile homicide rate fell 70 percent, the number of incarcerated juveniles rose 74 percent from 1990 to 1999, according to the Justice Policy Institute, a nonprofit organization.
"The story is of the disappearing delinquent," said Barry Krisberg, president of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency. "We're not arresting as many kids." 
One reason, Mr. Krisberg and other experts said, is that states are filling their juvenile halls and training schools with children guilty of lesser offenses -- either to justify the costs of new detention centers, or because no other option exists. Many of Mississippi's poorest counties have no group homes or treatment centers, Mr. Butts said. 
"They end up using those training schools as a catch basin for all the child and youth problems in the state," he said.
The most striking indicator of that is the number of training school students committed for so-called status offenses: under-age drinking and smoking, truancy, breaking curfew, running away and other things that are illegal only for minors. 
A 1974 federal law barred imprisonment for status offenders, but was amended 10 years later to allow it for children who violated a valid court order.
"The reason they did that, the defensible reason, was a lot of kids were in danger -- the 12-year-old prostitute, the drug users -- and judges wanted to do something to save them," Mr. Butts said. "But of course the exception became the rule. People aren't even shocked any more when they hear about a status offender being locked up."
At the Columbia Training School, 75 percent of the girls were there because of status offenses, probation violations or contempt of court, the Justice Department found.
Budget problems have worsened conditions in many juvenile justice systems. Mississippi officials say they used to operate with a manageable 10 percent shortage of counselors, teachers and other workers, but legislative cuts and hiring freezes have increased vacancies to 39 percent at Oakley and 30 percent at Columbia. And managers at Oakley reported that the school could not afford to fire abusive employees.

A Mixed Response
How Mississippi will respond to this round of recriminations remains to be seen. In an interview, Attorney General Mike Moore welcomed the federal inquiry, saying it would provide "leverage to get more funding for adolescent-offender and community-based programs, rather than incarceration."
Officials at the State Division of Youth Services, meanwhile, struggle to defend the training schools and rebut some accusations, while still clamoring for money to solve acknowledged problems. In a response to the Justice Department, for example, they wrote that two employees had been suspended for six weeks for hogtying and shackling children, the acting head nurse had been referred to the state board of nursing for investigation, a dentist and doctor had been hired at Oakley, and a local clinic had been hired to handle medical care at Columbia.
"It is our opinion that children on both campuses are safe," said Willie Blackmon, director of the division, at the start of a brief, tightly controlled tour of Columbia.
Mr. Blackmon and two supervisors led a state representative and a few reporters through a school building, a dormitory, a medical clinic and a now-empty isolation ward. Inside, they displayed a "dark room" where girls had been confined without bed, toilet or clothing. The officials said it had not been used in months.
As the officials debated whether to drive or walk between buildings in the broiling sun, teenage girls in camouflage fatigues marched in step across the sprawling lawn.
Later, at her home in the Mississippi Delta, one member of that platoon, released hours earlier after more than five months, told of her experiences at Columbia during four stints for violations like running away from home and breaking curfew.
The girl, who could recount the dates of her stays and the names and ranks of numerous Columbia employees, said workers there had laughed behind the backs of federal investigators and scoffed at the investigation.
"They said they don't give a care about the feds," she said. "They cussed them out the same way they do to us. Their whole attitude changes every time somebody comes to check on the place. They're all polite, nice and kind."
The girl said the so-called dark room, supposedly long since decommissioned, had been used as recently as four weeks before her release. "I was in there, with no clothes, for 72 hours," she said. Why? "I wouldn't eat my vegetables. They said I was disobeying the state rules. You have to eat everything on your plate."
Her longest stint in isolation was two weeks and five days, she said. Sometimes, she said, she wore a straitjacket. She and other children were put in a restraint chair for three hours, she said. "They'd tighten it up so much, they'd put a sock over your arm so you won't see the marks, but your hands and feet get so swollen -- I could barely walk," she said.
She said she had repeatedly been pepper-sprayed -- she called it "Maced" -- often while running up and down a hill. "They make you run up and down 125 times," she said. "They expect us torun like that and not get out of breath. If you stop, they Mace you. If you bend over to catch your breath, they Mace you." 
One staff member the girl named as having pepper-sprayed her was one of two school officials who led the lawmaker and reporters on the tour of Columbia. The man, she said, had assaulted her on the ground, digging his knuckles into her forehead and bruising her, after faulting her form during physical exercises.
The staff member, reached by telephone, denied such an incident had taken place. "Categorically, no," he said. "We don't do things like that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard James, acting administrative director of Columbia, outside Hammond Hall, where it is alleged that some instances of abuse of residents took place.; Representative George Flaggs Jr., left, chairman of the Juvenile Justice Committee of the Mississippi House, and Willie Blackmon, director of the State Division of Youth Services, on a recent tour of the Columbia Training School. (Photographs by Jaclyn McCabe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUVENILE CRIME (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); BURGLARY (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); SUICIDE (68%); HOMICIDE (64%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (61%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (54%) Education and Schools; States (US); Children and Youth; Education and Schools

PERSON: David M Halbfinger

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Mississippi 

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



6 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Hamptons' Visitors Went Shopping, but Jersey Shore's Went Home 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN and JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
This summer's extended rains may have most beach town officials blue, but Millie Fellingham, the executive director of the Southampton Chamber of Commerce, is both unbowed and unbloodied.
 "The sales girls at Saks love the rain," she said, referring to the tony department store that is the cornerstone of Southampton's shopping district. "Women who forgot their sweaters come in and buy eight, one in every color." 
 At the Kmart at Bridgehampton Commons, whose Martha Stewart sheets most likely adorn half the guest bedrooms in the area, Mike, the manager, who spoke on the condition that his last name not be used, said that "this year was as good as last year" in terms of sales. With a touch of amazement in his voice, he added, "Beach stuff like coolers sold really well." 
Farther up Route 27, the manager of the M Salon in the Village of East Hampton, who also insisted that he not be identified, agreed that business this summer could not be better. "Whatever the weather, they need their hair blown out," he said, smiling.
On the southeast tail fin of Long Island, home to a stretch of comely town centers collectively known as the Hamptons, catering to the wealthiest is major industry, and this summer the towns appear to be inoculated against the blackouts, bad weather and economic downturns that have affected destinations for the more common people.
But that has not been the case on the Jersey Shore, where for many businesses, this summer has been like swimming in the riptides that battered the beaches earlier in the season: every time they came up for air, they were hit with another wave. First it was the 13 rainy weekends, which wiped out the entire spring and continued into July. Then came a frigidly cold ocean, followed by reports of medical waste and sewage washing ashore, closing 15 miles of Ocean County waters in mid-July.
Sporadic power failures created a sense of uncertainty (although the biggest one actually had a positive effect); and finally the "occupancy fee" -- a new hotel tax -- took effect on Aug. 1.
So while some businesses managed to keep their heads just above water, others saw serious dips in profits in a summer that Marilou Halvorsen, the marketing director for Jenkinson's Boardwalk in Point Pleasant Beach and for the Casino Pier and Waterworks in Seaside Heights, said was "not going to end up being a year we're going to remember."
The cold and damp start to the season also caused damage to sections of the Hamptons economy, particularly farmers whose usual crops have been devastated.
Hotels and guest houses say they do not expect to recover from a slow June. But they are the exception. Many local shops and restaurants report a solid season because they are not dependent on weekend trippers, but instead rely on homeowners and their guests who come rain or shine.
"We have a huge community of second-home owners, and that keeps us pretty stable," said Marina Van of the East Hampton Chamber of Commerce.
One of the clearest signs of the Hamptons' continued robust economic health are real estate prices, which are as astronomical as ever. "People ask me if the market has rebounded. I tell them it never declined," said Nicholas Pizzo, manager of the East Hampton office of Prudential Douglas Elliman. He said four-bedroom homes sell from $400,000 to $4 million, a significant increase over even three years ago, when the recession in New York began.
Not surprisingly, the sector that has grown up to service such homes -- including contractors, pool cleaners, gardeners and maids -- remains busy and is, in turn, spending money, business owners say.
Upscale clothing boutiques and restaurants say that despite a slow start to the season, they are close to breaking even with last summer.
Even the businesses that cater to a broader clientele appear to be holding their own. At East End Hardware on Newtown Lane in East Hampton, the owner, Edward Tillinghast, says business was so strong in July and August that he almost made up for a slow June. "The beach stuff sat there and sat there, but now it has gone," he said.
His was an enthusiasm that Ms. Halvorsen in New Jersey only wished she could muster. She said overall business at the two Jersey Shore properties she manages was down 40 percent this summer from last year. The beach traffic was affected most by inclement weather and by weather reports that warned beachgoers to stay home. The amusement park activities were affected by rolling brownouts or blackouts, the worst of which came on the Fourth of July weekend. 
On the other hand, the big blackout of Aug. 14 increased tourism along the shore, with New Yorkers seeking refuge from the dark and the heat.
"The phones were ringing incessantly with people looking to escape," said Randy Bishop, president of the Ocean Grove Chamber of Commerce and proprietor of the 10-room Melrose Bed and Breakfast there. "We had power and a beach. What more could one want?"
Mr. Tillinghast of East End Hardware said that "the blackout was great" for the Hamptons. "All gone," he said, pointing to an empty shelf where flashlights were usually stored.
Only a few merchants suggested that a weak economy was significantly influencing spending patterns in the Hamptons. Henry Hildreth, chief executive of Hildreth's, which bills itself as the oldest department store in the nation, said that while customer traffic in his Southampton store was solid, fewer people were buying fancy pool furniture.
"They are more likely to repair that umbrella than get an all-new set," he said.
The stores that have been hurt the most this season suffered mainly from supply problems, not lack of demand, they said. At the Round Swamp Farm roadside market in the Springs in East Hampton, a favorite spot for fruit and home-baked pies, the owner, Carolyn Snyder, said, "We are holding our own on the customer count. Our biggest problem is availability of produce."
She said she had to start planning late this year and, as a result, has 2,500 tomato plants that are not yet producing ripe fruit.
The Hamptons have no direct equivalent of the Jersey Shore boardwalks where merchants pile up in booths and wait for summer strollers to drop a few dollars. They do have the Napeague stretch, a piece of sandy highway that stretches from Montauk to Amagansett and is full of motels and roadside stands. There, more than anywhere, the weather matters, and still, locals say the season has not been so bad.
"We did great all season," said Dee Cole, the manager of The Lobster Roll, "but we had something going for us that other roadside seafood shacks don't have: a roof."
The Jersey Shore's problems, meanwhile, plagued even its southernmost resort town, Cape May, which normally gets about half a million tourists each summer. David Ellenberg, executive director of the Greater Cape May Chamber of Commerce, said hotels and restaurants were reporting 25 percent to 40 percent less business than last summer. He blamed the decrease on the weak economy and the new 7 percent hotel occupancy fee. Included in Gov. James E. McGreevey's budget to help close the state's $5 billion deficit, the new tax on all overnight accommodations has caused some vacationers to cancel their reservations, Mr. Ellenberg said.
Taxes aside, the situation seemed finally to be looking up for the Jersey Shore last week: the ocean was warm and clear, the days mostly sunny, and businesses were expecting a bustling Labor Day weekend.
Then again, Labor Day is almost a week early this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BEACHES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); WEATHER (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); WATER POLLUTION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); OCEANS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Water Pollution; Taxation; Hotels and Motels; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Weather

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (55%) Leslie Kaufman; Jill P Capuzzo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New Jersey; Hamptons (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



7 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-7

Funeral for Slain Cleric Travels South in Iraq
The funeral cortege for slain Shiite cleric the Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim crawled south from Baghdad, with Iraq's Shiite Muslims determined to assert their importance even as one of their most significant voices was silenced. On the first day of the three-day funeral, tens of thousands of mourners marched through the streets. A1

The United States Marines have postponed turning over control of Najaf to Polish soldiers after the devastating bombing at the city's holiest Shiite shrine. A8

BBC Reputation on the Line
The BBC's reputation for accuracy, fairness and objectivity is being challenged over a commentator's statement that the British government had knowingly inserted into its dossier of intelligence on Iraqi arms a false claim that Saddam Hussein had biological and chemical weapons that were deployable within 45 minutes. A8

The Taliban Is Regrouping
The Taliban, backed by volunteers from Pakistan, are regrouping and expanding their attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan, their former stronghold, according to Afghan officials, western diplomats and captured fighters. A1

Libya to Increase Restitution
Libya reportedly agreed to increase compensation for a 1989 terrorist attack that brought down a French airliner, a step toward ending United Nations sanctions against the North African country. Libya has never admitted responsibility for the bombing of the UTA airliner over Niger. A7

Conciliation From Chavez
President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, in a new atmosphere of conciliation, called on Venezuelans to respect a newly appointed electoral board, even though it has the authority to organize a recall referendum that might end his presidency. A2

NATIONAL A10-13

Some Children in Custody Receive Poor Mental Care
Thousands of parents have given up custody of their children under pressure from states to get help for the children's mental illnesses, but federal officials said they have found deplorable conditions in many of the institutions where children were supposed to receive treatment. A1

A 48-page Justice Department report paints a bleak picture of Mississippi's two state-run institutions for boys and girls deemed juvenile delinquents. A13

Davis's Personality Makeover
As Gov. Gray Davis of California campaigns against the recall that could cut short his political career, he is trying to revamp his public image by laughing at himself, admitting shortcomings, slapping people on the back and talking about his private life as he has not done since his early days in politics. A1

Core Voters Seen as Crucial
In a reassessment of political strategy, White House and Democratic Party officials say that turning out core Republican and Democratic voters will be more critical to next year's election than winning independent or swing voters. A1

Stress Over Job Losses
American workers are said to be feeling stressed and shaky as the nation continues to lose jobs and wages rise more slowly than inflation. A10

A Deadly Bank Heist
Federal investigators are perplexed by a case in which a suspect said someone had forced him to wear a bomb, then sent him to rob a bank. The bomb detonated and killed him after he was taken into custody. A10

Disabled Woman Gives Birth
A mentally disabled rape victim whose pregnancy became the center of a court battle in Florida over whether a guardian can be appointed for a fetus has given birth. A10

U.S. Muslim Leader Resigns
The head of the American Society of Muslims, who transformed the way many African-Americans practiced Islam, resigned. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

The Floating Hospital Searches for a New Home
The Floating Hospital traveled up and down New York City's waterways for 130-odd years, offering primary health care, nutrition counseling and entertainment for children and for the needy. But after the 9/11 attacks, the boat was rousted from Pier 11 in Lower Manhattan to make way for increased ferry service. Since then it has been searching for a permanent home on land. B1

Pursuing the College Market
First-year college students are the biggest consumers in the vast back-to-school market, with middle-class families spending as much as $2,000 to outfit their children for college. As a result, retailers have begun pursuing them, and their parents, in new and increasingly aggressive ways. B1

Beware Falling Slobber
Many ferris wheel fans stay on the Wonder Wheel at the Coney Island Boardwalk for more than one stomach-flipping ride, but none take as many spins as Kato, a guard dog, who most days rides the wheel from the moment it opens at noon until it closes at midnight. B6

Concern Over Church Closing
The Church of St. Thomas the Apostle in Harlem celebrated its last Mass on Aug. 3, several longtime parishioners said. The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York is reconfiguring parishes across the archdiocese and that could lead to the consolidation of some parishes, the reassignment of priests and even the permanent closing of some churches. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES B7

Charles Bronson
A muscular coal miner from Pennsylvania who became an international film star and archetypal American tough guy, he was 81. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Internet Security Demands
The Internet has become a vital part of commerce and culture, but it is still a free-for-all when it comes to facing computer meltdowns. As America's 156 million Internet users brace for the next round of digital vandalism, some experts say that it is time for the government to bolster a basic sense of stability in cyberspace. A1

Vivendi Nears Merger Deal
Vivendi Universal is near a preliminary agreement to merge its entertainment assets with General Electric's NBC division, executives close to the talks said. C1

Sparse 9/11 Commemoration
Virtually every media company is planning to commemorate the 9/11 terrorist attacks in some fashion, but usually with more limited and understated offerings than last year. C1

Summer Movie Season Lessons
Now that the summer movie season has ended, Hollywood studios are trying to draw lessons as they head into fall and, beyond that, the crucial holiday season. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Congress tries again; a summer to remember; Manhattan primary endorsements; Labor Day and beyond.

Column: Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E10
Weather D10
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); TALIBAN (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CHILDREN (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLITICS (69%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (68%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); REFERENDUMS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); POLAND (79%); NIGER (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



8 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Home Alone 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There was an interesting lead paragraph in an article on the front page of The Wall Street Journal last Thursday:
 "The blackout of 2003 offers a simple but powerful lesson: Markets are a great way to organize economic activity, but they need adult supervision." 
 Gee. They've finally figured that out. The nuns I had in grammar school were onto this adult supervision notion decades ago. It seems to be just dawning on the power brokers of the 21st century. Maybe soon the voters will catch on. You need adults in charge. 
We barreled into Iraq with no real thought given to the consequences, and now we've got a tragic mess on our hands. California looks like something out of "Lord of the Flies," and yet the person getting the most attention as a candidate to clean up that insane situation is an actor with a history of immature behavior whose cartoonish roles appeal most strongly to children. Maybe he'll shoot the budget deficit. Hasta la vista, baby.
Appalling behavior and appalling policies have become the norm among folks entrusted with the heaviest responsibilities in business and government. The federal budget deficit will approach half a trillion dollars next year. And that will be followed by huge additional deficits, year after irresponsible year, extending far off into the horizon. And, of course, the baby boomers, the least responsible generation in memory, will soon begin retiring and collecting their Social Security and federal health benefits, leaving the mountains of unpaid bills for the hapless generations behind them.
What this nation needs is a timeout.
Imagine if we had done some things differently. If, for example, instead of squandering such staggering amounts of federal money on tax cuts and an ill-advised war, we had invested wisely in some of the nation's pressing needs. What if we had begun to refurbish our antiquated electrical grid, or developed creative new ways to replenish the stock of affordable housing, or really tackled the job of rebuilding and rejuvenating the public schools?
What if we had called in the best minds from coast to coast to begin a crash program, in good faith and with solid federal backing, to substantially reduce our dependence on foreign oil by changing our laws and habits, and developing safer, cleaner, less-expensive alternatives? This is exactly the kind of effort that the United States, with its can-do spirit and vast commercial, technological and intellectual resources, would be great at.
Imagine if we had begun a program to rebuild our aging infrastructure -- the highways, bridges, tunnels and dams, the water and sewage facilities, the airports and transit systems. Imagine on this Labor Day 2003 the number of good jobs that could be generated with that kind of long-term effort.
All of these issues, if approached properly, are job creators, including the effort to reduce our energy dependence. The big hangup in the economic recovery we are supposed to be experiencing now is the continued joblessness and underemployment.
A fellow I ran into recently in San Jose, Calif., Andy Fortuna, said: "I've got a college degree and I'm washing cars. I'm working, but I'd like a good job. If the idea is for business to employ as few people as possible and keep their pay as low as possible -- well, how's that good for me? Who speaks for me?"
Wise investments along these lines have dual payoffs -- they help us take care of critical national needs and they help sustain the high levels of employment that are needed to keep the nation's high-powered consumer economy humming.
One other critical need that is not getting enough attention is homeland security. A series of recent reports has shown that two years after the Sept. 11 attacks we remain dangerously unprepared for another terrorist strike inside the U.S. And one of the major reasons we remain unprepared is that so many of the agencies responsible for our domestic defenses against terror are undertrained, understaffed and underfinanced.
We are at a stage now where mature, responsible leadership is more essential than ever. All of the problems that we have ignored until now remain with us. But the money that might have started us on the road to solutions is gone. We are mired in Iraq, and not properly prepared at home.
We could use some adult supervision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); COASTAL AREAS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); POLITICS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); TAX LAW (68%); TAX RELIEF (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (64%); US LABOR DAY (60%); TERRORISM (59%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%) United States Politics and Government; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

PERSON: Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



9 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses Dampen Economic Rebound 

 BODY:
 Even though the recession ended nearly two years ago, public opinion polls show that American workers are feeling insecure. 
One factor above all has fueled the uneasiness: the nation has lost 2.7 million jobs over the last three years. 
 Indeed, the current economic expansion is the worst on record in terms of job growth. But Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao said job creation would soon improve.
Article, Page A10. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



10 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Kakata Journal; 
An Army of Educators Saves a Liberian College

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: KAKATA, Liberia, Aug. 26 

 BODY:
The past and the present of this nation, and perhaps its future, lie here on a thousand acres of lush countryside, at the campus of the Booker T. Washington Institute, Liberia's sole surviving institution of higher learning.
 It owes its life to the aging men who watched over it night and day for the past 16 months. While the rest of Liberia fell deeper into the latest cycle of violence in the civil war that has ruined it over the past 14 years, the institute's teachers and overseers saved it from complete destruction. 
 "We have stood guard -- administrators, principals and staff -- 24 hours a day," said Alfred S. Walker, 58, the institute's elegant but bone-tired vice principal for instruction. "And we are still here. We realized the importance of our responsibility to the culture of Liberia. We put our necks on the chopping block, if I may say so, to save this place." 
The University of Liberia was destroyed this month by the raging militias of President Charles G. Taylor in the days before he left for exile on Aug. 11.The rest of the school system is a wreck.
That leaves Booker T. Washington, named after the black American inventor and educator, who died in 1915. It was founded with American support in 1929, run by black and white Americans into the 1960's, and many of its graduates live in the United States.
It still has desks, blackboards, classrooms and computers, and teachers aching to teach. There is no money, and no safety, but there is hope. "The reality is the school was nearly destroyed in the 1990's," said its principal, Mulbah S. Jackolli. "It was occupied, looted and smashed." The school shut down in 1990 after teachers were beaten and arrested by armed thugs loyal to Mr. Taylor, then fighting his way to power.
With the help of outside donors, principally the United States Agency for International Development, the institute was patched up enough by 2000 to admit its first full class in a decade. "That class of 840 was largely kids who had been combatants, who had lost their parents, or had been displaced by the war," Mr. Jackolli said. "They were thirsty for the skills to make a living."
About 55 teachers and aides taught the 840 freshmen and sophomores that year. Day students paid $20 a semester; boarders $250. They learned accounting, engineering, business, home economics, secretarial work, auto mechanics, agricultural sciences, carpentry, masonry and plumbing -- skills needed to rebuild the country.
Then came Wednesday morning, April 3, 2002. At about 11 a.m., the rebel Liberians United for Reconciliation and Democracy attacked Kakata and raided the institute, where they raped and kidnapped students, Liberia's Defense Ministry says. Government forces retook Kakata the next day, but the students were too terrorized to return that spring.
School started again last September. But the government did not continue paying the teachers and administrators their salaries of $20 to $40 a month, and the war kept many students away or robbed them of their means to pay tuition. Only a handful remained for classes this spring. The campus is deserted now except for staff members who saved it and a steady stream of refugees.
Last Tuesday, Mr. Walker and six of his colleagues took a visitor on a stroll around the campus, explaining its history.
C. D. B. King, Liberia's 16th president, visited Tuskegee Institute, the black college in Alabama, in the late 1920's, and decided he wanted to transplant it to Africa. He hired Robert Robinson Taylor, the first black graduate of M.I.T., to design the campus and a course of instruction. A white man from Georgia, James L. Sibley, was the first principal. Though he died of malaria on June 28, 1929, the coeducational school was by then in business, backed by the Phelps-Stokes Fund, an American philanthropy, and Firestone Rubber, which controlled a nearby million-acre plantation.
"B.W.I. played a very important role in building this country," Mr. Walker said. Those who built "its roads, its bridges, its public works, its banks," he added, "graduated from here."
"Before the war, we had students from all over West Africa, and faculty from all over the world." 
Now, he said, "Students come here every day asking if they can enroll -- they are thirsty. But what happens to them when they graduate? Every industry in this country is closed."
Jacob B. Swee, 39, the head of the institute's agriculture department, said a generation had been lost to war in Liberia. "The young people who should be taking over from us are lying in the bush holding a gun or sitting in a refugee camp," he said.
The institute will reopen as soon as possible, perhaps this winter if Mr. Jackolli can raise the money to buy books and pay teachers. It will take years to restore the campus. Bids submitted in 1999 for that job ranged from $18 million to $25 million.
The other necessary ingredient for reopening is security; there is little here today. Alumni in the United States sent a container with thousands of dollars' worth of teaching supplies last month. All were looted in Monrovia's port. Hundreds of people fled Kakata last week after rumors spread that the rebels were returning.
The institute's 75th anniversary will be next June 29. Mr. Jackolli hopes, somehow, to raise the money needed to rehabilitate the campus and pay wages by then.
This is how the day would go, in Mr. Walker's mind: "Our school would be reopened. We would have a homecoming. Some of our thousands of alumni in the States would come. Some of our instructional materials would be replaced. There would be jobs for our new graduates. These are some of my dreams."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacob B. Swee, head of the agriculture department at the Booker T. Washington Institute in Liberia, helped patrol the school for the past 16 months. (Photo by Jehad Nga/Corbis, for The New York Times) Map of Liberia highlighting Kakata: The Booker T. Washington Institute opened in Kakata in 1929.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); ENGINEERING (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); PARAEDUCATORS (75%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (75%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); POLITICS (67%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (67%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Politics and Government; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: Booker T Washington Institute

PERSON: Tim Weiner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LIBERIA (96%) Liberia; Kakata (Liberia)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



11 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Long-Lived Floating Hospital Is Still Going, Just Not Floating 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
The Floating Hospital was not a true hospital, and that was precisely its charm. For more than a century it floated up and down New York City's waterways, making a clinical checkup feel like a day at the beach.
 In the summer, the familiar barge would ply the harbor as its staff offered primary health care, nutrition counseling and entertainment for children and for the needy who might shy away from other clinics. In the colder months of recent decades, it offered its services while tethered to a Manhattan pier. Generations of patients climbed aboard to have their teeth examined, watch a magic show or just take a refreshing cruise and see the Statue of Liberty. 
 "We've had patients come and say, 'Oh, my grandmother was on this ship, and so I wanted to come,' " said Angela Amendola, a physician assistant. 
But the ship has run aground. Though it still calls itself the Floating Hospital, the clinic has moved off the barge and is looking for a permanent home on land. 
While the hospital's basic mission has not changed in its 130-odd years on the water, the waterfront has. In the past, there were few objections to a barge that tended to the sick and indigent near working or derelict piers, far from the homes of the elite. But now, as city residents and officials are rediscovering the potential for commercial development, housing and recreational oases along the waterways, the Floating Hospital has found itself largely unwelcome.
The barge, the Lila Acheson Wallace, has sat idle in Brooklyn since December, and the agency has set up shop on East Broadway, near Clinton Street, in Manhattan, in a nondescript clinic where it began seeing patients last week. The hospital plans to settle permanently in Long Island City, Queens, as soon as it can find an available building or lot. Hospital officials say the area has been designated by the federal government as an underserved community.
"Our mission doesn't say we will be a ship," said Ken Berger, president and chief executive officer of the agency, who described the decision to abandon ship as painful. "Our mission says that we will provide health care and social services to underserved people."
The boat -- where many patients were treated at no charge -- was actually the flagship and headquarters of a much larger enterprise with 66 satellite clinics throughout the city (except Staten Island), in Westchester and on Long Island. In addition to medical care, the organization provides rehabilitation and social services to homeless and immigrant families, the retarded, victims of domestic violence and people with H.I.V.
But it was the ship, a barge powered by a tugboat, that gave the agency its identity over the years, as more than five million patients went aboard the Lila Acheson Wallace and her many predecessors.
The concept evolved from cruises begun in 1866 by The New York Times for newsboys toiling in the smoggy, sweltering city. It became a summer institution, touring the East and Hudson Rivers with children, the elderly and the disabled. Later, it was not only a mobile clinic whose many distractions offset the fear and pain of a trip to the doctor, but also a summer retreat for those without a cottage or beach.
At the same time, the ship was an extreme example of the beliefs about disease in the late 19th century, said David Rosner, a director of the Center for the History and Ethics of Public Health at Columbia University. In that period, before the role of bacteria was fully understood, disease was seen as being rooted in personal behavior, he said, and hospitals threw in a dose of moralizing along with the medicine.
By removing patients, some of them tubercular, from congested areas of the city, the Floating Hospital was trying both "to cure them and to isolate them from the evil influences that had gotten them sick in the first place," he said, including "immorality, bad habits and lousy decisions" on the part of the patients, who were, for the most part, poor residents of the city's slums.
By the 1870's the hospital was shuttling poor children around the city's waterways so they could breathe the sea breezes, take a salt bath and see a doctor while their mothers relaxed on the boat. 
Throughout the years, the hospital, operated until 1980 by St. John's Guild, a private philanthropic group, also staged festive events. In 1949, sanitation workers dressed up as cowboys to entertain 1,200 children who had participated in city cleanup drives.
In 1973, when the hospital retired the Lloyd I. Seaman, one of the five official barges that have been used by the hospital, passengers debarked from the final voyage in tears.
Over the decades, the barge has come to rest at several spots, including piers on the Lower East Side, in West Midtown and in Harlem, said Ellie Tinto-Poitier, the hospital's chief operating officer, adding that its last regular home was at Pier 11, near Wall Street. After Sept. 11, 2001, the city moved the barge temporarily to Pier 17, at the South Street Seaport, to make way for ferries in Lower Manhattan. 
The barge was displaced again by plans for emergency ferry service in December as a threatened transit strike loomed. The strike never materialized, but officials of the company that manages the seaport would not let the barge return, because they considered it inappropriate in an area full of stores, restaurants and tourists.
City and hospital officials considered many other piers, they say, but none worked out. "They didn't have sufficient water depth, they were being used for other purposes or they belong to other entities" like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corporation.
Ms. Tinto-Poitier said the hospital's board had rejected some piers the city offered because they were next to sanitation piers where garbage is transferred -- not the best environment for health care.
Finally, Floating Hospital officials decided earlier this year that it was time to come ashore.
Mr. Berger said the new headquarters in Long Island City would be a boon. Its central location will make it easier for clients to be brought there from shelters and schools around the city, as well as to get there on their own. The neighborhood also has a large public housing project in desperate need of health care services, he said.
"In years to come, people will ask, 'Why is it called the Floating Hospital?' because it's anchored in Queens," said Eric Gioia, the city councilman who represents the neighborhood. "This will dramatically improve people's access to health care."
So the blue and white boat now sits like a ghost at a pier in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, its dental chairs and theater and exam rooms empty. Mr. Berger said he held out hope that the hospital would float once again, or that at least a new use would be found for the ship.
Either way, he said, the agency will survive the loss of its trademark.
In Boston, the Floating Hospital for Children also began in the late 19th century as a ship, inspired by the New York vessel. The boat was destroyed by fire in the late 1920's, but the institution survives on land as a full-fledged children's hospital.
"There's a lot more you can do for children than provide them fresh air and sunlight, so we've changed to be a modern children's hospital," said Dr. Ivan Frantz, the chief pediatrician at the Boston hospital. 
New York's ship may have been historically and emotionally important, he added, but it is no longer necessary in providing care. "The original concept is now something that just doesn't exist." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children were examined aboard the Floating Hospital, left, in June 1950. Angela Amendola, a physician assistant at the Floating Hospital's new home on the Lower East Side, tended to Michael Orta, 4, and his sister, Krystal. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); (Photo by Meyer Leibowitz/The New York Times); The clinic has used five barges for its mobile operations, the last being the Lila Acheson Wallace, above, which now sits at Pier 30 in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Another of its barges, the Lloyd I. Seaman, left Pier 70 on its last cruise in August 1973. (Photo by Neal Boenzi/The New York Times); (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); CRUISES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (76%); FAMILY (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Medicine and Health; Floating Hospital (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: FLOATING HOSPITAL (94%) New York Times

PERSON: Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



12 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Taliban Raids Widen in Parts Of Afghanistan 

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: KANDAHAR, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
The Taliban, backed by new volunteers from Pakistan, are regrouping and steadily expanding their attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan, their former stronghold, according to Afghan officials, Western diplomats and captured fighters. 
 The clashes have increased since mid-August, particularly in Zabul Province and other parts of the southeast. Two American soldiers were killed on Sunday in a 90-minute gun battle in Paktika Province, after a week of fighting that was the fiercest in months, the Pentagon said. It said dozens of Taliban had died, as had nine Afghan soldiers. To date, 35 American soldiers have been killed in action in Afghanistan. 
 In the region generally, Western diplomats said, the Taliban have changed their tactics. Not only are American forces being attacked, but so are Afghan policemen, aid workers and midlevel officials. The United Nations reports that attacks on aid workers, most of them Afghans, have "intensified significantly" since May. 
The intermittent assaults have made the south and the east an unpredictable mosaic of territory that is safe one day and dangerous the next. As a result, United Nations officials say the pace of reconstruction and investment is slowing and that the populace, nearly all of whom are ethnic Pashtuns, is becoming more alienated from the government in Kabul and its American backers. 
Westerners active in the area warn of a slow deterioration, though not an immediate collapse. 
American military officials agree that the Taliban are becoming more sophisticated in their tactics but say they are failing to regain power.
"They're trying to reinvigorate and resurrect their movement," said Col. Pat Donohue, who is about to step down as commander of allied forces in Kandahar, "but they haven't been very successful."
But other Westerners are urging the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, and the United States to immediately increase aid, security and ties to Pashtun tribes in the area. "There needs to be a political offensive in the south," said a Western diplomat, who warned that the Taliban were trying to destabilize the southeast.
The Bush administration is expected to double reconstruction aid to Afghanistan, and a new American military unit of 120 soldiers is to be established in December in Kandahar, to coordinate and provide security for aid projects. But United Nations officials and aid workers say international peacekeepers now confined to Kabul must also be deployed to the south and other regions.
As the weak central government has failed to extend its writ in isolated parts of the south, Western diplomats say, the Taliban are trying to fill the vacuum. In many districts, the only evidence of government authority is a district leader protected by a small group of poorly paid and ill-equipped police. Residents complain of lawlessness and say that while they do not support the Taliban, they miss the strict law and order they enforced.
Some of the stepped-up Taliban campaign has involved basic propaganda. "Night letters" left in villages and cities play on the lack of aid and a sense among Pashtuns that they are not adequately represented in the new national government. Residents are told that the United States is simply interested in occupying Muslim countries, not in aiding them.
Taliban gunmen are also showing a new, uncharacteristic diplomacy, according to reports received by aid groups. On rural roads, gunmen give men who shave their beards or listen to music a brief sermon and send them on their way. In the past, such offenders landed in jail.
The gunmen are "smiling and friendly," said Nick Downie, a security coordinator with the Afghanistan NGO Security Office, a nonprofit group.
But Afghans who cooperate with the government or the United States are being killed. Two police chiefs, two pro-government imams, and more than 30 policemen were killed in the south and east in July and August, Afghan officials said.
An attempt to assassinate the governor of Helmand Province was thwarted in early August.
The increased attacks on Afghans coincide with the release in late June of an audiotape said to be from Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban commander. The speaker announced the formation of a 10-member leadership council to "expedite jihad against occupation forces" under a new strategy.
Western diplomats say the Taliban seem to have begun "psychological warfare."
"They have a sophisticated strategy of going after local people," a senior Western diplomat said. "The mantra they use is that the Americans and the international community will leave someday, and we will come back."
Attacks are on the rise in Wardak and Logar Provinces, both just south of Kabul, where nine policemen were killed in August, aid officials said. 
Because of the danger, the number of aid groups operating in Kandahar, the south's largest city, has dropped by 50 percent, to a dozen, Mr. Downie said. United Nations officials say the number has remained constant. 
But the attacks have led the United Nations intermittently to bar its staff from entering almost all parts of two southern provinces, Zabul and Oruzgan, and large parts of six other provinces near the border with Pakistan: Helmand, Kandahar, Paktika, Paktia, Logar and Khost.
Cities, like Kandahar, remain relatively safe. But aid workers warn that Kandahar, once the Taliban's de facto capital and now a bustling city brimming with construction projects, could become an island of security in a sea of needy and religiously conservative villagers.
Colonel Donohue said American forces see different Taliban tactics in different areas. In the east in Paktika and Paktia Provinces, up to two dozen Taliban fighters, who sometimes include Arabs, boldly ambush American forces. Others detonate remote-controlled bombs and mines under American vehicles.
"We have seen very sophisticated operations up there," the colonel said. Militants there, for example, try to avoid American thermal night sights by wrapping themselves in blankets, military officials said.
Closer to Kandahar, the Taliban mount fewer attacks on American forces, and focus on Afghans.
Colonel Donohue, as well as Afghan officials, said the struggle in the south would be won by aid workers, not soldiers. The problem is stabilizing the area so they can create jobs and gain popular support.
"Those are the guys who are going to win it for us," he said, referring to aid workers. "That's how we're really going to defeat the root causes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pakistani soldiers patrolling the vast semiautonomous tribal areas on the border with Afghanistan pause to pray. Despite their presence, young men from religious schools still manage to cross over to join the Taliban. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. A4) Map of Afghanistan highlighting Kandahar: Kandahar may be an island of security in a wide area of attacks. (pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); TRENDS (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (76%); TERRORISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); POLITICS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) Taliban; United Nations

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) David Rohde

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); PAKISTAN (93%) Afghanistan; Zabul Province (Afghanistan); Afghanistan; Afghanistan; Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



13 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Congress Tries Again 

 BODY:
Members of Congress return this week newly educated about their constituents' growing doubts about the cost of the Iraq occupation, the health of the economy and the homeland's preparedness for disaster, whether by grid failure or terrorist plot. The troubling budget deficits so eagerly engineered by President Bush and his Republican majority have only worsened during the vacation. The G.O.P. leaders face a difficult agenda and there are already more signs of fresh procrastination than of resolve. A prime example is the leaders' unwillingness to break out the problem of the Northeast power grid's failure into an emergency measure free of the pork-laden energy bill. 
 If Congress learned anything this summer, it should be the need to become a driving force in demanding a far more candid and thoughtful Iraq reconstruction plan from the administration. The House was able to muster some independence when it came to demanding the import of lower-price prescription drugs and overruling parts of the Federal Communications Commission plan to allow big media companies to own more TV stations. We would like to see more of that kind of spirit, but it seems more likely that the majority will continue to move in lock step, as it did when members cruelly blocked working-poor families from the new Bush child-credit tax break other Americans enjoy. The president has so far failed to deliver on his vow to fight for the poor, but the opportunity is at hand if he dare resist his House majority leader, Tom DeLay. 
 The upcoming election cycle is likely to make it even more difficult to achieve progress on critical issues like homeland security. Members of Congress should be judged not so much by their patriotic rhetoric as their unwillingness thus far to adequately finance security at the nation's highly vulnerable ports or to begin inspecting cargo shipments aboard passenger jets. The Coast Guard estimates that $1 billion is needed next year to begin securing the ports; Congress so far has gone no higher than $150 million. And as Washington prepares to remember Sept. 11, Congress should press beyond White House resistance for the fullest inquiry into the terrorist plot's causes and money trail.
Given the amount of damage this Congress has done already, we might be grateful if the fall brought nothing more than large-scale standoffs already being predicted as lawmakers regather. The sorry House bill to protect gun makers from lawsuits would best die in the Senate. And the welfare reform issue will be difficult to address amid the continuing binge of deficit spending.
Leadership from the president might make all the difference. But Mr. Bush offered no sign of resistance when his African AIDS program failed to get full financing, just like his ballyhooed No Child Left Behind education program. Our best hope is that moderate Republicans will demand that their party do better before the voters have a new chance to judge its performance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); AIDS & HIV (69%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (68%); EDUCATION LAW (63%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (62%); DRUG PRICES (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%) Editorials

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



14 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Urges Deference for Electoral Board 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
In a new atmosphere of conciliation, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela called today on Venezuelans to respect a newly appointed electoral board, though it has the authority to organize a recall referendum that might end his presidency.
 Mr. Chavez, speaking on his nationally broadcast radio program, told Venezuelans that the five-member board, the National Electoral Council, should be respected as the main arbiter in Venezuela's political stalemate. 
 "No one should pressure them, not any sector in the government, nor allies of the government, should pressure these gentlemen," he said. "That is the arbiter." 
Last Monday, Venezuela's Supreme Court appointed the board members, ending months of uncertainty about whether electoral authorities would ever be chosen to oversee the referendum the opposition has been demanding. 
The electoral board has the task of validating 3.2 million signatures collected by Mr. Chavez's opponents, updating voter registration lists, choosing overseers for an election and, finally, setting an election date. In theory, if the signatures are validated in the next month, a referendum could take place as early as the end of November.
Mr. Chavez's comments came a day after representatives of the Atlanta-based Carter Center, which has mediated Venezuela's political conflict, said the two sides had agreed to accept the rulings of the council. Jennifer McCoy, the Americas program director at the center, told reporters in the Venezuelan capital, Caracas, that she was encouraged about the prospects for resolving the stalemate after meeting with Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel and opposition leaders.
"The representatives of both the government and the opposition told us explicitly that they are prepared to accept the decisions of the council," the Carter Center said in a statement.
The appointment of the electoral council, which was hailed this past week by the Bush administration, is the first step toward a referendum. Under Venezuela's Constitution, a referendum is permitted halfway through Mr. Chavez's six-year term. Mr. Chavez, who was re-elected in 2000, completed half of his term on Aug. 19.
Mr. Chavez's opponents, who have failed to bring him down with a coup and four economically devastating national strikes, have settled on the referendum as their last option to ending his tumultuous rule. 
"I think we are at a stage where the situation is much better," Timoteo Zambrano, a leading opposition leader, said by phone today from Caracas. "The council needs to verify the signatures. If they do that, we will have a referendum this year. That is a mechanism the government cannot deny." 
Both sides have agreed that the electoral board is balanced, with two members supported by the opposition and two by the government. The board president is Francisco Carrasquero, a left-leaning university rector.
Still, many political analysts believe that the signatures, which were collected earlier this year without any kind of official oversight, will be declared invalid. The lack of guidelines for the referendum -- it is unclear what constitutes a valid signature -- is also expected to lead to delays.
Though polls show two-thirds of Venezuelans oppose Mr. Chavez, he maintains support among the poor.
But Venezuela's political tumult hasresulted in unemployment approaching 20 percent, and the gross domestic product plunging 29 percent in the first quarter of the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%) Politics and Government; Elections; Recall (Elections); Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Referendums

ORGANIZATION: CARTER CENTER (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Juan Forero

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



15 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Looks Like a Recovery, Feels Like a Recession 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Even though the recession ended nearly two years ago, polls show that American workers are feeling stressed and shaky this Labor Day because the nation continues to register month after month of job losses and wages are rising more slowly than inflation.
 One factor above all has fueled the insecurity: the nation has lost 2.7 million jobs over the last three years. The recovery has been so weak since the recession ended in November 2001 that the nation's payrolls are down one million jobs from when economic growth resumed. 
 Indeed, the current economic expansion is the worst on record in terms of job growth. The average length of unemployment, more than 19 weeks, spiked this summer to its highest level in two decades. 
"American workers are doing very badly," said Carl Van Horn, director of the Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University. "All the trends are in the negative direction. There's high turnover, high instability, a reduction in benefits and a declining loyalty on the part of employers. At the same time, expectations for productivity and quality are going up. It's a bad situation from a worker's standpoint."
In August, a Gallup poll found that 81 percent of Americans thought now was a bad time to find a quality job, tying March for the highest percentage since Gallup began regularly asking the question two years ago.
A new survey by the University of Michigan found that while workers were showing somewhat less fear about unemployment, they were voicing concern that their wage increases were shrinking. 
"Most workers expect the economy to improve, but at the same time they don't expect to have their income or their wages increase," said Richard Curtin, director of surveys at the University of Michigan. "It's a very untypical environment."
Weekly earnings for all private-sector workers, after accounting for inflation, have slid for the last seven months, down two-tenths of one percent so far this year, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has reported. A new study by the Economic Policy Institute, a research group financed by foundations and labor unions, found that hourly after-inflation wages had slipped across the board for most workers.
But Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao predicted that job creation would soon improve, and along with it, worker optimism.
"We're on the road to recovery, but obviously the president and this administration are deeply committed to accelerating the recovery so that everyone who wants to work can find a job," Ms. Chao said Friday in an interview.
Democratic presidential candidates have seized on the nation's weak job performance to assert that President Bush appears on the way to having the worst record of job creation of any president since Herbert Hoover.
"What's unique about the economy today is that even though the recession started in March 2001 and ended apparently in November 2001, here we are in August-September of 2003, and we have far fewer jobs than when we started this whole process," said Lawrence Mishel, president of the EconomicPolicy Institute. "That has never happened since the Great Depression."
A survey of 1,015 adults conducted by the Heldrich Center at Rutgers in June found that 18 percent of all American workers reported being laid off in the last three years.
Like other administration officials, Ms. Chao said Mr. Bush had inherited the recession and weak job growth.
She added that the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the scandals at Enron, WorldCom and other corporations weakened the economy further. 
Ms. Chao said the president's tax cuts had stopped the slump from growing worse and would soon fuel growth and job creation. As evidence of growth, she pointed to the report Friday that the economy expanded by 3.1 percent in the second quarter.
"We're still in the middle of this presidential term, and as we see the economy grow and this recovery gain momentum, we expect more job creation will occur," she said.
Unemployed Americans are not feeling so optimistic. John I. Brown has been unable to find another permanent job since he was laid off 15 months ago by a TRW factory in Cleveland that makes valves for automobile engines. 
"I feel bitter," said Mr. Brown, who earned $14.50 an hour as an inspector at the plant and worked there for five years. "Every week I send out three or four applications, but it's not easy. Every time I look around, there's another company going out of business or going overseas. Even white-collar workers have been losing their jobs."
Like many Americans, Mr. Brown feels victimized by the global economy. TRW closed the Cleveland plant and is looking to Mexico and Brazil to obtain valves more cheaply.
Dallas Salisbury, president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, said, "To the degree that workers in this country are under stress, it's because of global competition and the shift of jobs out of the United States to labor markets where far less can be paid to make the same product." 
Manufacturing has been the hardest hit sector of the economy, losing 2.5 million jobs since Mr. Bush took office. This 15 percent drop in manufacturing jobs, political experts say, could create difficulties for Mr. Bush next year in industrial swing states like Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin.
Largely because of problems in manufacturing, the number of Americans unemployed for more than 26 weeks has soared to nearly two million, triple the level when the recession ended.
The weak job market has upset so many Americans partly because the college-educated have been hit hard, just as workers who do not have a high school diploma. Spurred by the downturn in the information technology and financial sectors, the jobless rate for college graduates is up 1.5 percentage points from early 2001, compared with a 2 percentage point increase for those without a high school diploma.
Martin Regalia, chief economist for the United States Chamber of Commerce, warned that the economy's troubles should not be overstated and predicted that the jobless rate would start declining by year's end. 
"If you compare the unemployment rate today -- 6.2 percent -- with this point after the recessions of the early 90's and early 80's, it was much higher then," Dr. Regalia said. "Are things as good as they should be? No. Are they as bad as some people portray? No." 
Dr. Regalia noted that when benefits like health coverage were included, overall employee compensation was rising.
To many economists, perhaps the most vexing aspect of the economic recovery is that while productivity is growing, workers are enjoying few of the benefits.
A study by the Economic Policy Institute found that for low-wage workers (those in the 10th percentile) real hourly wages dropped by seven-tenths of one percent in the first half of this year, for workers in the middle (50th percentile) wages fell one-tenth of one percent, and for workers near the top (90th percentile) wages fell by 1 percent.
"We're having good productivity increases without jobs or wages growing." Dr. Mishel said. "That doesn't really help American families so much."
Lawrence Katz, a labor economist at Harvard, said that even though the labor market was weak and real wages were slipping, workers were better off than in the mid-1990's, largely because of the boom in the late 1990's. 
"Wages have done very poorly the past couple of years, but wages did very well from 1996 to 2001," Dr. Katz said. "That was the only time they did really well in the last 25 years because of the low unemployment rate and huge growth in productivity."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John I. Brown, left, who was laid off 15 months ago by a factory in Cleveland that makes valves for automobile engines, said he felt bitter about American companies that move overseas. Jim Fowler, right, a systems analyst and software worker in Independence, Ohio, was laid off in June. (Photographs by David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (83%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); TRENDS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); STATISTICS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%) Labor; Unemployment; Public Opinion; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Labor

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (65%) Steven Greenhouse; George W (Pres) Bush; Elaine L (Sec) Chao

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2003 



16 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Talking Is Better Than Fighting 

BYLINE:  By James Laney and Jason T. Shaplen; James Laney was United States ambassador to South Korea from 1993 to 1997. Jason T. Shaplen was an adviser to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization from 1995 to 1999.

 BODY:
The Bush administration was right to participate in talks in Beijing last week over how to resolve the serious threat posed by North Korea's nuclear program. The first round of talks, last April, ended acrimoniously. This round, which was expanded to include not only China but also Japan, South Korea and Russia, ended with an agreement to hold another round of talks within two months.
 It may not sound like progress -- especially when one considers that the other major news from the conference was the North's brazen threat to test a nuclear weapon unless Washington agrees to sign a nonaggression pact. But if an agreement to talk further is evidence of the Bush administration's new willingness to engage the North, then that is good news. 
 As the administration prepares for the next round of negotiations, it must decide what it ultimately wants them to achieve. This will be no small challenge for an administration that, despite tough public pronouncements, continues to be badly divided between hard-liners who have pushed to isolate the North (with the eventual goal of regime change) and other officials who favor engagement because they believe isolation could lead to a catastrophe.
Hard-liners viewed last week's talks as an unwanted but unavoidable step in a policy ultimately intended to isolate the North in the hope of forcing the collapse of Kim Jong Il's regime. This policy calls for negotiation to fail by setting an unrealistically high bar for success -- specifically that North Korea unilaterally dismantle its nuclear program completely before the United States will even consider subsequent talks about its security, a nonaggression pact or economic support.
This position is unacceptable to Pyongyang for obvious reasons. And when the North fails to capitulate, so the thinking goes, the Bush administration will be better placed to turn to its allies and demand they embrace a policy of isolation, having demonstrated the North's intransigence. At the moment, America's allies are against isolating Pyongyang -- a position they forcefully expressed to Washington again last week.
On the other side of the spectrum is the pro-engagement camp, which believes that engagement -- backed by deterrence -- is the only realistic option. This includes addressing North Korea's security concerns in a meaningful manner. As distasteful as it may be to negotiate with North Korea after it failed to abide by the terms of the first nuclear pact it signed in 1994, this camp believes that ultimately there is little choice.
This position is based on two considerations. First, a policy of isolation will put a heavy strain on Washington's relations with Beijing, Moscow, Seoul and, to a lesser extent, Tokyo, all of which have stated at one time or another that they want to avoid a showdown with the North (although Japan has recently demonstrated more of a willingness to support Washington). Second, Mr. Kim, the North Korean leader, is unlikely to go down without a fight.
The costs of a military confrontation are unimaginable -- politically and economically. In 1994, the United States military commander in South Korea estimated that a war with the North would result in one million deaths (including tens of thousands of Americans) and cost the United States at least $100 billion.
The pro-engagement camp argues that these costs are too high, particularly as the United States continues to lose troops in Iraq and to spend $4 billion to $5 billion per month for the war there (in addition to the ongoing costs of the war in Afghanistan and the broader war on terror). Moreover, getting rid of Mr. Kim, as the hard-line camp intends, in no way guarantees that his successor will give up the North's nuclear weapons.
President Bush must now choose between the hard-line and the pro-engagement positions within his administration. Although the administration has agreed to further talks, the president has largely abstained from making a clear and final decision.
His hesitation is understandable: if he favors engagement, he risks upsetting conservatives as he enters the 2004 election cycle. The dangers of isolation, however, are far greater. Under such a policy, tension on the Korean Peninsula could reach a point where America is drawn into another confrontation -- one with potentially more severe consequences than either Iraq or Afghanistan.
Failing to make any decision at all is also dangerous. Abstaining is essentially a vote in favor of the hard-liners (which may be their goal). The clock is ticking. Delaying a decision would probably take the president past the 2004 election, but the North Koreans are unlikely to cooperate with such political concerns. They will -- as one would expect -- continue with their nuclear program, including not only a nuclear test but also the reprocessing of spent fuel rods capable of yielding enough plutonium for five or six nuclear weapons in addition to the one or two the C.I.A. claims they already have. If the president waits until next year's election to make his decision, a policy of engagement may no longer be possible.
To be sure, engaging the North is not palatable. However, political cover may be found in a reality, or dynamic, that did not exist in 1994. For starters, Russia and China, Pyongyang's two most important allies, are now sitting with the Americans at the table. Today's negotiations could therefore result in a more comprehensive, realistic deal than the 1994 accord; one which can be carried out more fully by all sides. Washington must recognize, however, that a comprehensive deal requires putting something meaningful to the North Koreans on the table.
The United States and North Korea are now at a critical point. A policy of engagement is the only sensible approach for Washington -- not only to avoid a military confrontation, but also to prevent serious and lasting damage to our relationships with our Pacific allies at a time when our Atlantic alliances are badly frayed. Even if the North refuses to respond, the United States will be better positioned to win the support of its partners for a hard-line approach.
If there is one thing all parties can agree upon it is that future talks will not be easy. The United States will demand that Pyongyang make difficult concessions. It must be willing to provide something in return. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



17 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Food for Thought (and for Credit) 

BYLINE:  By Jennifer Grossman; Jennifer Grossman, director of the Dole Nutrition Institute, is a former presidential speechwriter for George H.W. Bush.

DATELINE: MALIBU, Calif. 

 BODY:
Want to combat the epidemic of obesity? Bring back home economics. Before you choke on your 300-calorie, trans-fat-laden Krispy Kreme, consider: teaching basic nutrition and food preparation is a far less radical remedy than gastric bypass surgery or fast-food lawsuits. And probably far more effective. Obesity tends to invite such drastic solutions because it is so frustratingly difficult to treat. This intractability, coupled with the sad fact that obese children commonly grow up to be obese adults, argues for a preventative approach. As the new school year begins, we need to equip kids with the skills and practical knowledge to take control of their dietary destinies.
 Despite its bad rep as Wife Ed 101, home economics has progressive roots. At the turn of the century it "helped transform domesticity into a vehicle to expand women's political power," according to Sarah Stage in "Rethinking Home Economics: Women and the History of a Profession." In time, focus shifted from social reform to the practical priorities of sanitation and electrification, and then again to an emphasis on homemaking after World War II -- giving ammunition to later critics like Betty Friedan who charged home ec with having helped foster the "feminine mystique." 
 Banished by feminists, Becky Home-ecky was left to wander backwater school districts. For a while it seemed that mandating male participation might salvage the discipline while satisfying political correctness. By the late 1970's one-third of male high school graduates had some home-ec training, whereas they comprised a mere 3.5 percent of home-ec students in 1962. Since then, "home economics has moved from the mainstream to the margins of American high school," according to the United States Department of Education, with even female participation -- near universal in the 1950's -- plummeting by 67 percent.
What has happened since? Ronald McDonald and Colonel Sanders stepped in as the new mascots of American food culture, while the number of meals consumed outside the home has doubled -- from a quarter in 1970 to nearly half today. As a result, market economics has increasingly determined ingredients, nutrient content and portion size. Agricultural surpluses and technological breakthroughs supplied the cheap sweeteners and hydrogenated oils necessary for food to survive indefinitely on store shelves or under fast-food heat lamps.
Unsurprisingly, the caloric density of such foods soared relative to those consumed at home. Good value no longer meant taste, presentation and proper nutrition -- but merely more-for-less. Thus, the serving of McDonald's French fries that contained 200 calories in 1960 contains 610 today. The lure of large was not limited to fast-food, inflating everything from snack foods to cereal boxes.
But the hunger for home economics didn't die with its academic exile. Martha Stewart made millions filling the void, vexing home-ec haters like Erica Jong for having "earned her freedom by glorifying the slavery of home." Home and Garden TV, the Food Network and countless publications thrive on topics once taught by home ec.
All of which begs the question: if the free market has done such a good job of picking up the slack, why bring home ec back? Because much of the D.I.Y. (do-it-yourself) culture is divorced from the exigencies of everyday life. It's more like home rec: catering to pampered chefs with maids to clean up the kitchen.
The new home economics should be both pragmatic and egalitarian. Traditional topics -- food and nutrition, family studies, home management -- should be retooled for the 21st century. Children should be able to decipher headlines about the dangers of dioxin or the benefits of antioxidants. Subjects like home finance might include domestic problem-solving: how would you spend $100 to feed a family of four, including a diabetic, a nursing mother and infant, for one week?
While this kind of training might most benefit those low-income minority children at highest risk of obesity, all children will be better equipped to make smart choices in the face of the more than $33 billion that food companies spend annually to promote their products. And consumer education is just part of the larger purpose: to teach kids to think, make, fix and generally fend for themselves.
Some detractors will doubtless smell a plot to turn women back into stitching, stirring Stepford Wives. Others will argue that schools should focus on the basics. But what could be more basic than life, food, home and hearth? A generation has grown up since we swept home ec into the dust heap of history and hung up our brooms. It's time to reevaluate the domestic discipline, and recapture lost skills.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Adams) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (91%); NUTRITION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OILS & FATS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (78%); BARIATRICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); DIETING (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); POLITICS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); FOOD LIABILITY LITIGATION (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



18 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Online Booking Cuts Costs and Simplifies Corporate Trips

BYLINE:  By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
In the digital dark ages, employees who needed to book a business trip would either call a travel agent or fill out a company form with their itinerary and wait for an envelope to show up on their desk with their tickets and other documents.
 The process might have required several phone calls back and forth -- say, to check a seat assignment or request a nonsmoking room, or perhaps modify a single-city trip to include a sales call in a second city. 
 But just as technology has revolutionized the way leisure travel is booked and sold, it is just as significantly changing the way corporate travelers make airline reservations, book hotel rooms and arrange for car rentals. Although some organizations still rely on paper forms and phone calls for most of their travel planning, a growing number of businesses, large and small, are adopting online tools to automate the process and cut costs. 
"For simple trips, the traveler doesn't need a travel priest anymore to decipher mysterious code," said Henry Harteveldt, an analyst who follows the travel industry for Forrester Research in San Francisco. Businesses, he says, are going online to book flights and hotel rooms for the same reasons ordinary Americans do to plan vacations. "It helps save money," Mr. Harteveldt said. "And it lets the traveler take control."
Online booking for business trips is just getting off the ground, by Forrester's estimate, accounting for $13 billion of the roughly $150 billion that companies spent last year on travel. But Forrester expects that amount to more than double by 2007, to $27 billion. That creates what Mr. Harteveldt described as an "enormous upside in this segment," and a big opportunity for Internet travel agencies.
In the last year, the three largest -- Orbitz, Expedia and most recently Travelocity -- have created online booking tools aimed at the corporate market. Orbitz for Business, Expedia Corporate Travel and Travelocity Business are essentially souped-up versions of the companies' public Web sites, customized to incorporate a client's travel policies (for example "no five-star hotels") as well as any special rates it has negotiated with travel suppliers.
Employees log on and search for flights, rental cars and hotels much as they would plan a weekend getaway to London. The difference is that certain flights or hotels show up in the results as preferred, based on whatever policies or rates the company has fed into the software. 
"You get a slightly different version of Orbitz," the company's president and chief executive, Jeffrey G. Katz, said. "If your company has negotiated air fares, for example, they show up in your display. The look and feel is very similar."
The tools also generate detailed financial information to help travel managers get the best possible deal. Travelocity's reports, for example, enable companies "to fully understand how they're spending their money, what they're saving and what they're losing if they allow their employees to book outside of policy," the president of Travelocity Business, Ellen Keszler, said.
It is not just finding the best air fares or hotel deals that saves money for companies. The online travel agencies promote their own low fees, which are generally a fraction of the $25 to $45 a reservation that the traditional agencies have been charging corporate clients since the airlines reduced, then eliminated the commissions they paid.
Expedia, Travelocity and Orbitz typically charge $5 a reservation booked online and $10 to $20 for reservations that require help from an agent on the phone. In some cases, there are additional fees to change a reservation, set up a company account or upload the rates a company has negotiated with airlines. Those fees vary slightly -- for instance, Travelocity and Orbitz are waiving setup fees for their service -- but are generally comparable.
The old-line travel agencies are not standing idly by as the online purveyors enter their turf. In fact, American Express, the largest, has been serving the corporate market with online tools for years. 
American Express's Corporate Travel Online booking engine, designed for large companies, allows for more complex customization. A client, for example, can set different booking policies for top managers versus rank-and-file employees or service multinational corporations with offices in many countries. The company also offers a service called RezPort aimed at small businesses that do not have elaborate travel policies or their own negotiated rates with vendors.
More sophisticated online tools can generally be integrated with a company's expense report software and programmed to alert its travel managers about an employee's booking plans. Tony D'Astolfo, a senior vice president with GetThere, a company whose booking tool is used by more than 1,000 companies, said the system could be configured to send a message to an employee saying, "That $2,000 air fare you're taking -- I want you to go back and take that $1,000 air fare."
That is one way online tools can keep costs down. Another is what Mr. D'Astolfo and others call "visual guilt," or the impulse that overcomes some employees to take advantage of bargains that they spot on their computer screens but probably would not have learned about on the phone.
GetThere is owned by the Sabre Holding Company, which also owns Travelocity, and focuses on large clients while Travelocity aims at small to medium-size businesses. (GetThere's technology is also used for some of American Express's online products.) Expedia and Orbitz say they are marketing to any size company, but by most accounts, small to medium-size companies are the most contested market.
Even some airlines are developing online booking tools aimed at businesses that do not need much hand holding. Southwest Airlines, for instance, has had a separate Web site for corporate booking since May 2000 and is one of the first carriers to focus on business travelers with a dedicated online product.
But as Mr. Harteveldt, the Forrester analyst, pointed out, it is still early in the game, and just as leisure travel booking services have become much more sophisticated in the last year, corporate booking tools have room to grow.
"The story isn't what's happening today; this is evolving," he said. "In a year I think we'll see very different products." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIR FARES (74%); AIRLINES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (53%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); OWW (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (53%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



19 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: New York Outpaced Nation In Job-Loss Rate, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Hurt by the Sept. 11 terrorist attack and the slump on Wall Street, New York State suffered a far higher rate of job loss than the rest of the nation during the recent economic downturn, according to a study released last weekend.
 Noting that the state accounted for one in 10 jobs lost nationwide during the downturn, the study by the Fiscal Policy Institute predicted aweak recovery for New York. 
 "Since the outlook is for only very gradual job and income growth downstate, the state's recovery from this recession will likely be slow and drawn out," the report said.
The Fiscal Policy Institute, a research group financed by foundations and unions, found that while the nation lost 2 percent of its jobs, the state lost 3.1 percent, or 265,000 jobs, since the recession began in March 2001. 
New York City's job losses were three times the national rate, as it lost 6.4 percent of its jobs, with especially sharp losses in finance, manufacturing and information technology.
The study, called the State of Working New York 2003, said that New York City, which has 43 percent of the state's jobs, lost about 200,000 and accounted for three-fourths of the losses statewide.
The report pointed to a sharp decline in wages paid, worsened by layoffs and a plunge in Wall Street bonuses. Citing figures from the State Department of Labor, the report said that in the fourth quarter of 2002, total wages paid in New York City were $57.5 billion, down $5.67 billion, or 9.7 percent, from the fourth quarter of 2000, when the city's economy was at its peak.
"The outlook for job growth in New York City over the short term is not particularly bright," the report said. "A return to the high-flying days of the 1990's, which was fueled by the dot-com and financial sector bubbles, is widely acknowledged to be unlikely."
Citing Labor Department figures, the report said that total employment statewide was 8.4 million in July, with the number of unemployed averaging 574,000 in the first half of this year, up from 398,000 two years earlier.
The report found a drop in hourly wages. After the median hourly wage for New Yorkers rose by 3.4 percent in 2001 to $14.10 and by 1.5 percent in 2002 it fell by nine-tenths of 1 percent in the first half of this year. 
The institute predicted that continued weakness in wages and jobs would make it hard for Gov. George E. Pataki to erase the state's budget deficit.
"New York State will face another large budget gap this coming year," said Frank Mauro, the institute's president. "While this gap will be between one-third and one-half the size of this year's gap, it will be substantial."
The report said that in both the state and the city, job losses were sharpest during the recession, which lasted from March 2001 to November 2001. But it added that job losses continued into the first half of this year, although there were now signs that job growth has resumed.
"The economic impact of the World Trade Center attack cannot be overstated," the report said. "The attack had a profoundly adverse impact in a short span of time."
The terrorist attack, the report said, hurt five industries especially in New York City: airlines, hotels, retailing, securities and clothing manufacturing.
According to the report, manufacturing jobs in the state dropped by 14.7 percent between March 2001 and March 2003, information technology jobs by 14.9 percent and financial jobs by 6.5 percent.
The report found economic weakness throughout the state, noting that from the end of 2000 to the end of 2002, the Finger Lakes region lost 3.5 percent of its jobs, the Southern Tier 3.2 percent and the Mohawk Valley 2.8 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RECESSION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%) Labor; Economic Conditions and Trends; Terrorism; Stocks and Bonds; Recession and Depression; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Unemployment; Labor; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Fiscal Policy Institute

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



20 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
After September, can magazine industry hold the high note?

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE magazine industry, mindful of the song lyric that the days grow short when you reach September, is striving to build upon some improved advertising results this month with hopes of producing some momentum for next year.
 But as the industry seeks to better the $16.7 billion in advertising revenue that it recorded last year, magazine publishers confront a daunting challenge even as they produce ad-fat September issues that could double as doorstops. 
 Many of the factors that have made 2003 a difficult year to sell ad space -- from the uncertain economy to the unstable Middle East to the unsettling surge in demand for a competing medium, television -- continue to loom large and are capable of interrupting any songs in celebration of September or coming months.
"I still see a lot of confusion, a lot of questions, a lot of uncertainty in publishers' eyes and faces when I'm talking to them," said Karen Jacobs, executive vice president and director for print investment at a big media buying agency, Starcom Worldwide in Chicago, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe. 
"The trend is very slowly, very gradually upward," Ms. Jacobs said, "but with continued stops and starts."
Though a tally of September ad pages from the industry clearinghouse, the Publishers Information Bureau, is not expected until next month, many companies have compiled their own counts. Among the magazines declaring that they set ad-page records for September are: Details, from the Fairchild Publications division of Advance Publications; Parenting, People en Espanol and Real Simple, from the Time Inc. division of AOL Time Warner; and Vanity Fair, from the Conde Nast Publications division of Advance. The increases were fueled by gains in categories like apparel, automobiles, packaged goods, prescription drugs and retail.
Other magazines reported their best September in years. For instance, the current issue of Vogue, from Conde Nast, was the most ad-rich September issue of the magazine since 1989 and the fourth-largest ever.
"It's 4 pounds 8 ounces," Thomas A. Florio, vice president and publisher at Vogue in New York, said, laughing. "We do it by the pound now; we don't do it by the page."
Better Homes and Gardens, owned by the Meredith Corporation, published its second-biggest September issue ever, behind only 1999, on track to break the 2,000 ad-page level for the year, which would set a record.
"September doesn't appear to be hurt as much as had been expected, and October and November seem relatively buoyant," said Brett Stewart, senior vice president and director for print services at another media-buying agency, Universal McCann in New York, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
"But when I ask what's happening for December, I'm not getting any straight answers," Mr. Stewart said, "and it could go either way next year."
As if to underscore that fragility, as many magazines are crowing about September, dozens of others endured a September to forget, according to data gathered by the trade publications Media Industry Newsletter and Mediaweek.
Among the magazines suffering double-digit declines in ad pages compared with September 2002 are: Conde Nast Traveler, down 19.6 percent; Fast Company, from the Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing division of Bertelsmann, down 29.6 percent; Harper's Bazaar, published by the Hearst Magazines division of the Hearst Corporation, down 20.3 percent; Kiplinger's Personal Finance, from Kiplinger's Washington Editors, down 13.3 percent; Maxim, from Dennis Publishing, down 31.3 percent; and Men's Journal, published by Wenner Media, down 21.2 percent. The magazines were hurt by cutbacks in categories like financial services, imported luxury goods, technology and travel.
"The reality is, we're going to remain in an uncertain environment," said Ellen Oppenheim, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at the Magazine Publishers of America, the industry trade association in New York.
"What we're seeing this year is month-to-month fluctuations, partly based on events like SARS, the sputtering economic recovery and the war, and partly based on comparisons with results last year," Ms. Oppenheim said. "I would expect to see that continue."
One association member -- Jack Griffin, president at the Meredith Magazine Group of Meredith, which is based in New York -- will testify to the accuracy of that forecast.
"Our September was quite strong," Mr. Griffin said, at magazines like Ladies' Home Journal, More and Traditional Home in addition to Better Homes and Gardens. "For October, we didn't quite see the same vigor, but November is very strong. And we feel good about December."
His counterpart at the Time Inc. Women's Group in New York, Nora McAniff, who oversees magazines like InStyle, Parenting, People en Espanol and Real Simple, said: "I wish I could predict the future. People are already focused on next year, saying, 'It can't get worse.' It's hard to tell."
A primary reason for those doubts is the penchant for advertisers, as Ms. Oppenheim put it, "to keep making decisions closer and closer to the last minute." 
That trend is known as just-in-time media buying, after the process used by manufacturers like automakers to have parts delivered to plants only as assembly nears.
"Two weeks before the close of the September Money, we still had not booked 50 percent" of the ad pages that ultimately came in for the issue, said Chris Poleway, president of the Fortune Money Group at Time Inc., which finished down 10.4 percent from the same issue a year ago.
"I've asked our salespeople to be diligent about estimates and really talk to clients about what's going to run and not run," he said. "I do think we'll see growth in 2004, but I'm very hesitant to make any predictions."
At Hearst Magazines, Michael Clinton, executive vice president, chief marketing officer and publishing director in New York, said, "We're hoping to see some last-minute flurry of activity for the November and December issues we still have open."
"We can have an issue that within 48 hours of closing, 20 pages will come in and 10 go out," he said, "or 10 come in and 5 go out."
And in categories "with a lot of volatility," Mr. Clinton said, like beauty, fashion and travel, "the advertisers are there -- just not there to the extent they once were there."
"Instead of running four pages, they run two pages," he added. "Instead of running a spread, they run a page."
Among the magazines doing well, Mr. Clinton listed Esquire, up 8 percent in September ad pages; Good Housekeeping, up 21.5 percent; the new Lifetime, with 64.6 ad pages in its first September issue; and Popular Mechanics, up 39.4 percent. They helped offset the declines at magazines like Cosmopolitan, down 8.9 percent; Harper's Bazaar; Marie Claire, down 10.2 percent; and Seventeen, which Hearst recently acquired, down 27.4 percent.
Through September, Hearst Magazines is "running about 5 percent ahead in pages," Mr. Clinton said, "and if we sustain that for the rest of the year, we'd be very happy."
"We're probably not going to get much better than that," he added.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Better Homes and Gardens, Vogue and More published September issues that were flush with advertising, but the industry is cautious amid a forecast of monthly fluctuations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (89%); TRENDS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CALENDARS (71%); PACKAGED GOODS (62%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); TIME INC (84%); AOL INC (66%); MEREDITH CORP (62%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (60%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (54%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (66%); MDP (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



21 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: China Plans to Cut 200,000 Troops Over 2 Years 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
China plans to slim its military by 200,000 troops within two years as it struggles to reinvent its armed forces, the world's largest in head count, to better match the mobility and technological sophistication of the United States Army.
 The reduction, announced today, is the second major cut since the mid-1990's, when China said it planned to demobilize 500,000 troops. It also comes as Beijing continues to increase defense spending far above the rate of inflation, with extra funds being used to buy new weapons, improve communications and raise the pay of military personnel. 
 Shaken by the ease with which American troops dismantled Saddam Hussein's army in the 1991 Persian Gulf war and the Iraq war this past spring, Chinese leaders have been arguing that they need a smaller, more mobile and better equipped army controlled by a powerful central command if China is to become a peer of the American military.
China's military chief, Jiang Zemin, and Hu Jintao, the president and Communist Party chief who is likely to inherit control of the military, have been quoted as calling for a "revolution in military affairs." The Pentagon uses that term to describe its own program to streamline the American armed forces and integrate troops with the most up-to-date technology.
The information office of the People's Liberation Army reported today that the cuts would reduce total armed forces to 2.3 million from 2.5 million, which would still be the world's largest standing army. But the true size of China's military, like its budget, is a perennial mystery, with some Western analysts estimating that the actual number of troops is already smaller than the official figure.
Mr. Jiang, who retains the powerful post of chairman of the Central Military Commission despite having retired from his other government and party posts over the past 10 months, announced the cuts today in a speech to top officers.
"The state of war is being transformed from mechanized warfare to information warfare," Mr. Jiang was quoted as saying. "Reducing the scale of our military is beneficial to the concentration of our limited strategic resources and will quicken the pace of constructing our military's information technology."
But the scope of reductions appeared far less ambitious than was foreseen by some military experts, who had predicted cuts of 500,000.
Chinese and Western military experts said earlier in the summer that Mr. Jiang planned to tackle a systematic problem by eliminating most or all of China's seven military regions, which operate independently from one another and with only broad oversight from Beijing. Mr. Jiang did not mention any such changes in today's address.
In the weeks before the announcement, military newspapers carried extensive tributes to the leadership of Mr. Jiang, which were unusually adulatory even by the standards of China's state media. The tone suggested that Mr. Jiang was seeking to overcome reluctance within the military, or to lay the foundation to stay on as military chief for some time as a way of retaining political power. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); INFORMATION WARFARE (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); INFLATION (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



22 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Jesse Jackson And 18 Others Are Arrested In Yale Protest 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Rev. Jesse Jackson and 18 other people were arrested yesterday when they blocked traffic at Yale University to show their support for striking clerical, dining hall and maintenance workers on campus.
 Before his arrest at the intersection of Elm and College Streets in New Haven, Mr. Jackson led a rally on the Yale campus that was attended by 3,000 to 5,000 strikers and their supporters, according to police estimates. Mr. Jackson has led numerous rallies for the workers since they walked out last Wednesday, demanding job security and higher wages and pensions. 
 "This is the site of national Labor Day outrage," Mr. Jackson said. "This is going to be for economic justice what Selma was for the right to vote."
Mr. Jackson was the first to be handcuffed. As other protesters cheered, the police also arrested Jimmy Griffin, president of the Connecticut State Conference of N.A.A.C.P. branches, Representative Toni E. Walker of the Connecticut General Assembly and several clergy members. Those arrested were charged with disorderly conduct. On Friday, 83 strike supporters were arrested for blocking traffic.
Marching alongside Mr. Jackson yesterday at the rally were the Connecticut attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, a Yale Law School graduate; and the Connecticut secretary of the state, Susan Bysiewicz, a graduate of Yale College.
Yale officials have called the strike unnecessary, insisting that they have made a generous offer to increase wages and pensions. The university has offered the clerical workers' union a six-year contract that would include raises averaging slightly more than 4 percent annually. Yale has offered the food and maintenance workers a six-year contract averaging slightly more than 3 percent a year.
William Meyerson, a spokesman for the strikers, said New Haven's mayor, John DeStefano Jr., had called on the two sides to resume bargaining tomorrow, the day that classes are scheduled to begin. Union officials said they expected dozens of professors to move their classes off campus, as they did during a one-week strike last March, to honor the picket lines.
The workers' contract expired in January 2002.

GRAPHIC: Photos: After leading demonstrators in blocking traffic in New Haven yesterday, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, left, was the first to be handcuffed. "This is the site national Labor Day outrage," he said of striking workers on Yale's campus. (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (94%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); STRIKES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); RIOTS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (52%); RELIGION (52%) Colleges and Universities; Demonstrations and Riots; Labor; Building Service Employees; White Collar Workers; Food; Teachers and School Employees

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%) Yale University

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (94%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (52%) Steven Greenhouse; Jesse L (Rev) Jackson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



23 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS; 
Asian Stocks Rally After U.S. Reports a Rise in Spending

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Asian stocks rallied yesterday, sending benchmark indexes in Japan and South Korea to 14-month highs.
 The gains came after a government report was released on Friday showing that consumer spending rose 0.8 percent in July in the United States, the world's largest economy. 
 "It's evident that the fundamentals of the global economy are picking up," said Tadatoshi Kaneko, who helps manage the equivalent of $16 billion at T&D Asset Management in Tokyo. His stake in computer-related shares exceeds the 16 percent represented in the Topix index, he said. 
European shares rose after France Telecom offered to purchase the shares of its Orange mobile-phone unit that it does not own and Taylor Woodrow P.L.C. agreed to buy Wilson Connolly Holdings P.L.C., creating Britain's second-largest home builder.
Morgan Stanley Capital International's world index advanced 0.6 percent, to 910.28, in London. The index tracks companies in 23 countries, including the United States and Canada, where markets were closed for Labor Day.
Among emerging markets, Thailand's benchmark SET index reached a four-year high. The MSCI emerging markets index, which consists of shares traded in 26 countries, gained 0.8 percent, to 378.44, its highest close since October 2000.
Japan's Nikkei 225-stock average surged 3.2 percent, its biggest one-day advance in two months, to 10,670.18. The Topix jumped 2.5 percent yesterday, to 1,027.01. Both measures closed at their highest levels since July 10, 2002.
NEC, Japan's biggest personal computer maker, paced the rally by surging 6.7 percent, to 928 yen. The company obtains 29 percent of its sales from abroad.
South Korea's Kospi index added 0.6 percent, to 764.11. LG Electronics, a consumer-electronics maker that generates more than three-fifths of sales from overseas, rallied after the South Korean government said exports climbed in August.
"The U.S. is showing a fast economic rebound and we're catching up with it, with exporters in the lead," said Kim Kyeong Seob, who helps oversee the equivalent of $850 million at KB Investment Trust Management in Seoul. 
Asia's other major benchmarks also gained except for Hong Kong's Hang Seng, which dropped 0.1 percent, and New Zealand's NZSX 50, which fell 0.3 percent. Malaysia's market was closed yesterday for a holiday.
The Dow Jones Stoxx 50 index of European companies rose 1.4 percent, to 2,514.49. The Stoxx 600 climbed 1.4 percent, to 217.66. The Euro Stoxx 50, a benchmark for the 12 countries sharing the euro, gained 1.7 percent, to 2,599.14, a nine-month high.
Orange surged 12 percent, to 9.47 euros. France Telecom offered 11 of its shares for every 25 of Orange, valuing the stock at 9.94 euros each, or 18 percent more than Friday's close. Shares of France Telecom shed 3.9 percent, to 21.72 euros.
Wilson Connolly jumped 11 percent, to 232 pence, after Taylor Woodrow agreed to buy it for $:480 million ($758 million) in cash and stock. Taylor Woodrow added 11 percent, to 252.25 pence.
The takeover offers are "a sign companies have confidence in the future and see more possibilities to make money again," said Robert Verhoeven, who helps oversee about $5.5 billion at F. van Lanschot Bankiers in the Netherlands. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); EURO (68%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (94%); TAYLOR WIMPEY PLC (70%); WILSON CONNOLLY HOLDINGS PLC (69%); LG ELECTRONICS INC (58%); NEC CORP (58%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (94%); FTE (NYSE) (94%); FTE (BIT) (94%); TW (LSE) (70%); LGLD (LSE) (58%); 066570 (KSE) (58%); 6701 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (70%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (70%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (70%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (70%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (70%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (70%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



24 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: The State Says Unemployed Also Means Uncommitted 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
John Bothe was unemployed with time on his hands, so he paid a radio station about $1,000 to let him broadcast a sports talk show on Saturday mornings. Now he has found that the price of that show may be much higher.
 The state's Labor Department has decided that Mr. Bothe's unpaid job for WBTA-AM in Batavia, N.Y., qualified as work and made him ineligible for unemployment benefits. The state halted future payments, and it wants Mr. Bothe to return $605.50 he already received. 
 "My definition of work is doing a job and getting paid for it, not paying them," said Mr. Bothe, who lives in Corfu, in Genesee County.
Mr. Bothe lost his first appeal of the Labor Department's finding, and he plans to present his case again at an administrative hearing on Sept. 8.
A Labor Department spokesman, Robert Lillpopp, told The Daily News of Batavia that he could not comment on specific cases but that being available to work was important when receiving benefits. To get them, he said, "you have to be ready, willing and available to work."
Mr. Bothe, track announcer at Batavia Downs, a harness racetrack, said he started the radio show to improve his chances of staying off state unemployment rolls in the future. "I thought if I get on the radio, maybe somebody will hear me and I'll pick up some work," he said.
He also covered a high school baseball game in June for a station in Binghamton, N.Y., he said. That also was at his own expense.
The Labor Department told Mr. Bothe that he was overpaid $605.50 from April to July because "you falsely certified that you did not work when in fact you knew that you had worked." As penalty, the department said Mr. Bothe would lose 104 days of future benefits.
When Mr. Bothe told the department that he was not paid for the work, he was referred to what the state handbook says about the conditions for receiving benefits, he said.
The handbook says a benefits recipient must report "any activity that brings in or may bring in income at any time."
"You are considered employed on any day when you perform any services -- even an hour or less in self-employment, on a freelance basis or for someone else," the handbook says. "It makes no difference whether this work is in covered employment or whether you get paid for that day."
Mr. Bothe called the harness races at Meadowlands Racetrack for more than 20 years until resigning in a dispute with his employer in 1999. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); BASEBALL (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); HORSE RACING (66%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Radio; Horse Racing

PERSON: John Bothe

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Batavia (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



25 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- In Panama City; 
City Rests Many Hopes On a Canal

BYLINE:  By JORDAN STOLPER

 BODY:
Panama City is the banking and commercial center for Central America and much of the Caribbean. Assuming full ownership of the Panama Canal in 1999 gave Panamanians new confidence, but the local economy still reels from the loss of the United States military, which injected an estimated $400 million a year into the local economy.
 To offset that and increase Panama's competitiveness as a shipping hub, the Panama Canal Authority is looking into the construction of a third set of locks to accommodate larger cargo ships, a project that would cost $5 billion to $8 billion and take 10 years to complete. 
 In the meantime, the government has started a $10 million campaign to attract foreign tourists. 
The dollar is Panama's paper currency, and American and Panamanian coins are used interchangeably and are identical in shape, color and value.

AIRPORT
TOCUMEN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT has nonstop flights to Miami, Newark, Atlanta, Houston and Los Angeles, as well as a number of Central and South American cities.
Kraig Kraft, who coordinates a farming program for the United States Department of Agriculture, considers Tocumen the best airport in Central America, with Internet access, a comfortable lounge and an amply stocked duty-free shop where he stocks up on Flor de Cana rum.
Taxis charge a fixed $25 for the 12-mile ride into town. Fares in the opposite direction are negotiable but generally run $15 to $18. A $20 departure tax for all flights must be paid in cash.

HOTELS
The 206-room INTERCONTINENTAL MIRAMAR (507-206-8888, $200 and up), offers easy access to downtown and the restaurant-dotted El Cangrejo area. Pleasant, if slightly dated rooms have coffee makers and Internet access (though not always high-speed), and those facing the southeast can watch ships queue up to enter the canal. Enjoy the same view over drinks with clients at Sparkles, the hotel bar.
Each of the 56 rooms in the more intimate BRISTOL (507-265-7844, $175 and up), which opened in 1998, comes with CD player, high-speed Internet access and a bowl of fresh fruit replenished daily. The hotel is a short taxi ride from the banking district and a two-minute walk to Via Espana, a major shopping street.
Tom Carr, who develops tours for Elderhostel, stays at the CAESAR PARK (507-270-0477, $105 and up). "The security is really good and the manager has that Swiss trained quality about him," Mr. Carr said. Set outside the city center, the hotel features a casino, spa and extensive on-site meeting places. 

RESTAURANTS
Fernando Motta, general manager of Felipe Motta and Sons, a food importer, takes clients to LIMONCILLO (507-263-5350, $125 for dinner for two, including wine and tip). "You see local dishes with an international twist," Mr. Motta said, like grouper-basted tamarind sauce and breaded prawns served with coconut. Mr. Motta recommends the heart-of-palm salad with balsamic vinaigrette.
CASA DE MARSICO (507-223-7755, $100 for lunch for two, including tip) is a local favorite for business lunches. "Casa de Marisco has the best fish," said Pedro Heilbron, president of Copa Airlines, who dines there frequently. The corvina (sea bass) is locally renowned.
For a casual lunch, both Mr. Heilbron and Eduardo Morgan, a lawyer at Morgan & Morgan, favor the grilled meat at PARRILLADA JIMMY (507-226-1096, $25 for lunch for two, including tip). "I have a lot of lunches with employees there," Mr. Heilbron said. "It's very informal, but the food is fantastic." He recommends the Greek salad.

ON YOUR OWN
Visiting the PANAMA CANAL is as easy as hopping in a taxi and driving 10 minutes to the Miraflores Locks. A free viewing area is open daily from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Before going, call the Panama Canal Authority (507-272-1111) for the schedule of passing ships.

BUSINESS LORE
They built offices four stories up, but neglected to install a staircase or elevator to reach them. Cost overruns were twice the project estimate. And the promoter's bounced checks were printed in the newspaper, provoking an intervention by the Ministry of Commerce and Interior.
But the Figali Convention Center, site of the 2003 Miss Universe Pageant, got built, more or less, in time for the pageant. Jean Figali, the man in charge, is now accused by more than 20 building contractors of nonpayment for work worth $2.5 million. 
While the courts sort things out, building inspectors are reviewing the building for design irregularities. A local newspaper reported that the permit process was largely ignored.

This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in leading business destinations appears every Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A ship passes through the Miraflores Locks of the Panama Canal. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); RESTAURANTS (87%); HOTEL AMENITIES (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



26 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Another Friday Outrage 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When the E.P.A. makes our air dirtier, or the Interior Department opens a wilderness to mining companies, or the Labor Department strips workers of some more rights, the announcement always comes late on Friday -- when the news is most likely to be ignored on TV and nearly ignored by major newspapers.
 Last Friday the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, known as FERC, announced settlements with energy companies accused of manipulating markets during the California energy crisis. Why on Friday? Because the settlements were a joke: the companies got away with only token payments. It was yet another demonstration of how electricity deregulation has gone wrong. 
 Most independent experts now believe that during 2000-2001, price manipulation by energy companies, mainly taking the form of "economic withholding" -- keeping capacity offline to drive up prices -- added billions of dollars to California's electricity bills. A March FERC report concluded that there had been extensive manipulation of prices in both the natural gas and electricity markets. 
Using methods widely accepted among economists, the California Independent System Operator -- which operates the power grid -- estimated that withholding by electricity companies had cost the state $8.9 billion. This estimate doesn't include the continuing cost of long-term contracts the state signed, at inflated prices, to keep the lights on during the crisis. 
Yet the charges energy companies agreed to added up to only a bit more than $1 million. That is, the average Californian was bilked of more than $250, but the state will receive compensation of about 3 cents. 
Was the fix in? Given the Bush administration's record of catering to energy companies, FERC isn't entitled to any presumption of innocence. Still, the main problem seems to be with the commission's approach: even in the aftermath of large-scale price manipulation, it demands givebacks of excess profits only when it can prove that those profits arose from a specific prohibited action. 
This leads to very low settlements, for two reasons. First, while an industrywide pattern is easy to identify, intentional withholding by an individual producer is much harder to prove. Though investigators have found a few smoking guns -- control room tapes, e-mail, memos -- a power shutdown designed to increase prices is usually indistinguishable from a shutdown for genuine technical reasons.
Second, since withholding drove up prices across the board, each company profited from other companies' price manipulation. So even if FERC forced each company to give back the profits from its own bad behavior, it would leave most of the industry's excess profits untouched.
State officials wanted refunds based on estimates of the overall overcharging that resulted from price manipulation. But my expert contacts tell me that the antiquated language in the Federal Power Act, the basis of FERC's authority, probably doesn't give it the power to enforce such refunds.
On the other hand, FERC clearly does have the power to abrogate long-term contracts signed during the crisis. Indeed, the commission's March report contained a strong hint: "Staff recommends using the analysis in the report to inform ongoing long-term contract proceedings and other complaints that long-term contracts are not J & R just and reasonable ." But in June, on a 2-to-1 vote (yes, two Republicans against one Democrat), the commission upheld those contracts. So California, the victim of one of the worst abuses of market power since the robber baron era, will get no redress.
So what does this say about electricity deregulation?
There is a theoretical case for a deregulated electricity market. But making such a market work, it's now clear, requires at least three preconditions. First, it requires a robust transmission system, yet the recent blackout made it clear that we have now created a system in which nobody has clear responsibility for the transmission network. Second, it needs a watchdog agency with adequate powers to prevent and punish price manipulation; FERC doesn't have those powers. Third, that watchdog must not be an agent of the very companies it's supposed to be policing. Enough said. 
I admire the virtues of free markets as much as anyone. But given what we've seen so far, any state government that lets the federal government prod it into deregulation is just plain crazy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); MINES & MINING (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA INDEPENDENT SYSTEMS OPERATOR (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



27 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Blackout in Britain Raises Questions About Following Its Example

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
More than a decade ago, Britain chose to split the work of transmitting electricity over long distances from the work of generating and selling it.
 Generation and sales were opened to market forces, attracting many competitors and driving down prices -- sometimes too far, complain some companies that have lost millions and quit the market. 
 At the same time, power transmission was left in the hands of one company, now called National Grid Transco, which remained tightly regulated. 
Power travels over 4,500 miles of high-tension lines and 400 miles of underground cables criss-crossing England and Wales. Profits earned by the grid are set by the government, after consulting with National Grid about what it plans to reinvest in the system, where and how it plans to invest and how consumer costs will change. 
A power disruption caused by failures on this grid on Aug. 28 left two-fifths of London in darkness, shut down the subway system during rush hour, and tempered thoughts that the British model would serve as a guide for the United States to rebuild its strained transmission network.
National Grid quickly tried to distance itself from the problems in the United States. "This is not an issue of underinvestment," the chief executive, Roger Urwin, said in a conference call the next day. 
The company invests about $:300 million ($474 million) a year in the transmission network, triple the amount when the network was publicly owned, he said.
The London power cut was a freak accident, Mr. Urwin said. It started when a transformer in Kent failed, and a backup system in London collapsed seconds later, he said. Full details will not be available for weeks, the company said, but a preliminary investigation is focusing on equipment that is only a year old.
London's power cut lasted 40 minutes, a fraction of the time that the power was out in most places during the United States blackout. Still, it caused chaos because London's subway system, which is run by the city government, has a backup power generator that works only when all of the network is out. Just 60 percent of the network's power was cut, so the backup could not kick in, leaving thousands of commuters stranded underground. Many subway lines were still shut for hours after the electricity was restored, as some commuters had been evacuated from the cars and were walking along the tracks. 
Even though power was quickly restored, the failure could not have come at a worse time, analysts said, because National Grid has been seeking to work with United States transmission networks. The company's "reputation will have taken a knock," Citigroup said in a report. The company's liability for the power cut is also being investigated by the gas and electricity regulator. 
Britain's approach to restructuring its electricity market differs from the United States method in several ways. In Britain, the grid is the responsibility of one company, not many. Regulations are made and enforced by one government agency, not by a patchwork of state and federal officials, as in the United States. And National Grid is encouraged to reinvest in the grid because the regulator will allow it to earn higher profits if it does.
Britain's experience has been anything but smooth. Competition to produce and sell energy has been so fierce that several companies have been driven into bankruptcy. They blamed market rules set by regulators. But until last week's power failure, there were no problems with transmission. 
In the United States, little attention was paid to transmission after the market was opened to competition. The focus was on creating more power, encouraging consumption and lowering prices. To a large degree, restructuring succeeded in doing that. But it also strained the grid.
Cheap power is not always near the customers, so it is sent to them along high-tension wires, sometimes for hundreds of miles. The grid was not built for such volumes, and because many companies own parts of the grid no one company has the incentive to invest much to improve any part of it.
"In the United States, it doesn't seem that anyone that has responsibility for the reliability of the whole grid to the same extent as in the U.K.," said David Crane, chief executive of International Power, an energy company based in Texas that operates in both countries. When problems occur, one company and one regulatory system can react more quickly. It took days for the American blackout to be completely fixed and weeks for its source to be pinpointed, versus minutes for National Grid to identify and repair London's blackout.
National Grid also operates in the United States. It owns 14,000 miles of electricity transmission lines in the Northeast, including the Niagara Mohawk grid in upstate New York. But in response to the rules in each country, its investment strategy differs significantly.
In the 12 months ended March 30, National Grid invested $:364 million ($574 million) in its British network, and about $:50 million (under $80 million) in its United States network, which is more than three times larger. The company makes approximately the same rate of return in both countries, Philip Greene, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said.
National Grid says that direct comparisons are hard to make, because England and Wales are shifting from coal to gas to supply electricity, requiring some specific investments. In addition, National Grid's transmission lines in the United States do not have to carry as heavy a load. 
"It's apples and oranges," says Jeff Scott, chief operating officer of United States transmission.
Still, National Grid supports Federal Energy Regulatory Commission proposals that would make the United States system look more like that of England and Wales. The plan would link the rates of return that transmitters can earn to improvements they make to the system.
National Grid also controls the transmission of another valuable commodity, natural gas, after it acquired Britain's money-losing national pipeline in January 2002. Last June, the company said it made a profit of $:391 million on sales of $:9.4 billion in the fiscal year ending March 31. That is up from a loss of $:321 million in fiscal 2002, which includes results for the gas pipeline, but down from a profit of $:1.123 billion in 2001. Sales rose 24 percent last year, from $:7.554 billion for the two companies in 2002.
About a fourth of National Grid's profit came from running and managing Britain's electricity distribution system. The rest came from the gas pipeline business and from its electricity and gas operations in northern New York. Even before the London blackout, shares of the company have dropped almost 15 percent since the beginning of the year, on concerns that a series of acquisitions have left the company too large to increase earnings quickly. On Aug. 29, the day after power was cut in London, the shares fell another 2 percent. 
Still, the company is considered a success by historical measures. When the British government in 1989 selected National Grid to own and operate the transmission system, it required the company to develop and maintain an efficient, coordinated and economical system of transmission and to encourage competition in the supply and generation of electricity. National Grid has reduced the cost of electricity transmission by 40 percent in the last eight years, Mr. Greene said, in part because of constant reinvestment.
The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets was created to oversee the company and set the rates it can charge for owning and managing the system. It allows the company to recover its costs and earn a fixed 6.25 percent return on the capital it has invested by charging generators, distributors, suppliers and big industrial customers for use of the grid. That rate of return will be reevaluated in 2005.
Britain's experience with a privatized electricity market was not without problems even before the London blackout. Several international companies rushed into the country after the market was restructured, only to start losing money when regulators forbade power companies from auctioning off power to the highest bidder.
"The generators were working with a rigged market," Richard Hunt, a spokesman for the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, said. A new system went into effect in 2001, just as new plants were coming on line, flooding the system with power.
Prices have fallen more than 40 percent since then, and power companies say they are being forced out of business. British Energy, the country's biggest nuclear generator, is awaiting a government bailout. Many United States companies that invested in Britain in the last five years have exited after recording large losses.
Just this month, AES, a United States power company, walked away from Drax, the largest coal plant in Britain, after paying $3 billion for it in 1999. The plant is now in receivership, and International Power is offering a fraction of AES's original price. In October 2002, TXU of Dallas, another power company, said that it would sell its British retail electricity business and power plants to the German operator E.ON for about $2.1 billion. TXU started its expansion into Europe with a $10 billion investment in 1998.
Some say that in their quest to lower prices, the British regulator has been short-sighted when it comes to power generation. In fact, regulators could be setting the foundations for a power supply crisis in Britain, critics say.
"Between the regulators cutting prices and the companies over building, they are all in a financial pickle," Ian Fells, a professor of energy conversion at Newcastle University, said. Excess capacity has fallen to 16 percent from 28 percent -- below the 23 percent that he estimates is necessary in case of extreme weather conditions.
August's power failure may not be London's last, he said. This winter, Professor Fells said, deregulated Britain still faces a 20 percent chance of blackouts.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Commuters left London's Victoria Station on Aug. 28 after a power failure that lasted 40 minutes. A backup generator for the subway system was not able to run, and thousands of riders were stranded underground. (Photo by Associated Press); David Crane, chief of International Power, which operates in Britain and the United States. (Photo by NewsCast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); EXECUTIVES (51%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (94%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (94%); NG (LSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (94%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: DAVID W CRANE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); WALES (79%); ENGLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



28 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Deficit? What Deficit? 

 BODY:
The White House serenely brushed off a detailed caution from the Congressional Budget Office last week that the growth in the deficit is more likely to roar than retreat across the next decade, fed by the three Bush tax cuts and other debt-fattening indulgences. If that warning was not enough, how about the concern reported at the International Monetary Fund that the administration has no credible plan to restore budget balance? Yes, the I.M.F., which must lecture the profligates of the globe, is worried that a structural deficit will push up interest rates and restrain growth as America ceaselessly borrows to steer red ink from imbalanced budgets onto future taxpayers. 
 The coming overview from the I.M.F. is reported to foresee that in the short run the United States will drive economic growth. But it can find no believable plan to rein in ballooning deficits, already at historic levels. The mix of detaxation and deficit spending that has overtaken the government under President Bush's guidance is rolling trillions of dollars in debt over to the uncertain future. The nonpartisan budget office's outlook is conservative compared with other responsible estimates of deficits averaging a half-trillion dollars across the decade, doubling the national debt to $9 trillion. 
 Hard choices should be made now about this grave threat, before the baby boomers are stuck with the bill in shrunken retirement benefits. But the dominant Republicans of Washington value no vision beyond pandering to taxpayers in the next election cycle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



29 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Proposed Tax Rouses An Already Jumpy City 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In these lean times, cash-poor states and cities across the country have pondered and enacted a host of creative taxes and fees, raising the cost of snowmobiling in Montana, trout fishing in New Mexico and marrying in Massachusetts.
 But now there is the proposed espresso tax in Seattle. 
 Seattle is the coffee capital of the nation, the birthplace of Starbucks, a caffeine-crazed city where espresso is available at gas stations, hospitals, roadside stands and drive-through windows. Seattle is so identified with the liquid produced by forcing steam through ground coffee beans that an espresso tax is like a tax on the city's very soul. 
The formal name of the espresso tax, which would add 10 cents to the cost of every beverage served in Seattle containing a half-ounce or more of espresso -- but would not apply to regular drip coffee -- is Initiative 77. Sponsored by the Early Learning and Care Campaign, it will go before voters on Sept. 16.
If Initiative 77 passes, the annual espresso tax revenue, estimated by its sponsors at $6.5 million, would be used to pay for day care and pre-kindergarten programs for low-income children, services that have been sharply cut in recent years.
"I think the cause is good," said Doug Tolliver, 36, a Seattle native who was sipping regular drip coffee outside a Starbucks in the Wallingford neighborhood the other day.
The initiative, though, is "somewhere between creative and strange," he said.
Strange, perhaps, but supporters say taxing espresso, which was briefly considered last year in Portland, Ore., but has apparently never been tried elsewhere, is also ingenious. They say consumers who already pay at least $2.50 for a caffe latte or a mochaccino are not likely to mind paying an extra dime, particularly for a good cause.
"Seattleites love our coffee and we also love our children," said John R. Burbank, executive director of the Economic Opportunity Institute, a nonprofit organization that came up with the idea for the ballot initiative. "We believe that we should have a kid-friendly community in which we actually don't leave children behind. Unfortunately, with current funding, we are leaving a lot of children behind."
Mr. Burbank said the tax was a fairer way to raise money at a time when the economy was weak because it would affect people with higher incomes more than it would affect the poor.
"Lower-income people drink less espresso than upper-middle-class people," he said. "I've already had two tall double lattes, and I'll probably get another today."
He added: "If you don't want to pay it, you can buy drip coffee or tea. But I believe people are more likely to want to consume espresso if their morning purchase doesn't just go to giving them a buzz but goes to children."
In an era of skyrocketing "sin taxes" on cigarettes and alcohol, it is not clear where espresso fits in. Espresso may be widely accepted as a luxury, even by the many addicts here, but it is not considered a sin. And many coffee drinkers here who support cigarette and alcohol taxes take issue with one on espresso.
The opposition to Initiative 77 is well organized, well financed and witty, having formed a campaign called Joined in Opposition to the Latte Tax, or JOLT. It includes heavy hitters like Starbucks, which operates 80 of the estimated 650 businesses that would be subject to the tax, and smaller businesses like the wildly popular Victrola Coffee on Capitol Hill, a Seattle neighborhood crammed with a dizzying selection of coffee shops.
Businesses with annual gross receipts of less than $50,000 would be exempt.
"Taxing a single product, taxing that way is a slippery slope for other products to be taxed," said Audrey Lincoff, a spokeswoman for Starbucks, which has headquarters in Seattle. "We oppose it because we feel that it really is too important to fund these programs by being dependent on a single product."
Ms. Lincoff declined to say whether Starbucks would pass the tax onto its customers if it is approved. But smaller businesses said they would have to charge more for the espresso drinks, and many said the tax would create an accounting quagmire, requiring that charges for espresso drinks be separated from those for other products. 
"I think it is a bad public policy," said Jen Strongin, a co-owner of Victrola Coffee, adding that she would probably raise the price of espresso drinks by 10 cents if the tax were approved. "I think it sets a precedent for future taxation in the city that would be a bad idea: taxing specialty items like espresso or salmon, something that someone deems a luxury item."
There are no exact figures on how much espresso is consumed in Seattle, which makes it difficult to calculate how much money an espresso tax would raise.
But Mr. Burbank's organization used gourmet coffee consumption statistics from the National Coffee Association -- an average of .38 cups per capita daily on the West Coast -- to reach its estimate of $6.5 million annually, based on Seattle's population of about 550,000 and about 50,000 commuters. City officials, however, said the tax would raise $1.8 million to $3.5 million annually.
The Early Learning and Care Campaign gathered 30,000 signatures, 11,000 more than required to put the initiative on the ballot. And Mr. Burbank said he was confident that in a city known for its sympathy toward social services, the measure would pass. Polls conducted by his organization last year showed wide support for such a measure, he said. 
If the tax is approved, the revenue would aid places like the Small Faces Child Development Center, which like most publicly financed child care programs has had to reduce staff training and turn away children because of budget reductions. 
More than 600 children are on a waiting list for a city day care subsidy. The tax would allow Small Faces to accept 5 to 10 more low-income children, said its executive director, Lynn B. Wirta.
"It's 10 cents for kids," she said. "The mayor and our governor cut the money for children's services and we were charged with being creative in a way to fund this, so here we are."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Customers at Victrola Coffee will probably pay more if an espresso tax is passed in Seattle. The revenue would go to services for poor children. (Photo by Annie Marie Musselman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SNOWMOBILING (72%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); GAS STATIONS (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (67%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (67%); BALLOTS (67%); CHILD WELFARE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



30 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Official Adds Pressure Against Low Yen and Yuan 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Making his first stop on a trip to Japan and China, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow took veiled aim today at the artificially weakened yen and yuan, praising "flexibility" six times in one five-minute speech.
 "A well-functioning international financial system is one that's based on flexible exchange rates determined in competitive markets," Mr. Snow said in a news conference here, without mentioning Japan and China by name. These two nations are responsible for 35 percent of the United States trade deficit of $244 billion for the first half of this year. 
 Before Mr. Snow's visit here, a group of American manufacturers and farm organizations released a report accusing China of increasing exports by keeping the exchange rate for its currency fixed at an artificially low level and Japan of devaluing its currency through huge yen sales.
"Japan and China were the currency manipulation leaders in July," the Coalition for a Sound Dollar said in a report issued on Friday. "On the eve of the U.S. Treasury Secretary Snow's visit to China, Asian governments are intervening more than ever before to artificially underprice U.S. manufacturers and farmers."
Although Japan spent a record nine trillion yen, or $77 billion, to help weaken the yen in currency markets from January to July, Japanese politicians today tried to make common cause with Mr. Snow as he prepared to fly to Beijing on Tuesday for a two-day visit.
"The Chinese yuan should be allowed to fluctuate 20 to 40 percent vis-a-vis the Japanese yen," Taro Aso, policy chief of Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party, told Mr. Snow this morning.
In response, Mr. Snow said that Washington wanted to ensure "that we are heard on the subject of maintaining flexibility in exchange rate regimes as well so that American manufacturers and American firms are not disadvantaged."
Japanese leaders are alarmed that China, with its cheap currency, displaced Japan last year as America's third-largest trading partner, after Canada and Mexico. This year, China is expected to displace Japan as the world's third-largest exporter. 
As China emerges as Asia's trading powerhouse, it is expected this year to displace the United States to become the top trading partner for Japan and South Korea.
Japanese officials often complain of a trade deficit with China. But if Japan's trade with Hong Kong is added to the China statistics, Japan had a $24 billion surplus last year. 
And in trade with the mainland China alone, Japan's exports surged 49 percent in the first half of this year, while Japan's imports from the mainland increased only 24 percent. The half-year trade deficit dropped 38 percent, to $9 billion.
Accruing more profits to Japan, about 60 percent of the bilateral trade is conducted within Japanese companies. China, with its "undervalued" currency now absorbs 16 percent of Japan's imports, more than double the portion of a decade ago.
"It is strange thing for Japan to be pressing China to devalue," said a longtime American currency strategist here. "This is the proverbial pot calling the kettle black. China may be the No. 1 intervener in the foreign exchange market, but Japan is No. 2."
This evening, an official with Japanese ministry of finance sought to broach the revaluation idea as gently as possible with China.
"We agreed that China should think what is best for themselves," the official told reporters after Mr. Snow had dinner with Japan's finance minister, Masajuro Shiokawa. "We will tell the Chinese what we think, but we will not force it upon China."
Mr. Snow is visiting Tokyo and Beijing ahead of a meeting of finance ministers from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum at the Thai resort of Phuket, to be held later in the week.
Today, his visit to Japan took a political turn as he virtually gave the Bush administration's endorsement to Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi who is running for re-election at the ruling party congress here Sept. 20. 
By winning re-election to the post of president of the Liberal Democratic Party, Mr. Koizumi would be almost certainly guaranteed two more years as Japan's prime minister.
"I had the opportunity to commend the prime minister on his policies, his efforts," Mr. Snow, a former railroad executive, said before a bank of Japanese television cameras at an American embassy news conference. "We commended him on his vision, his leadership in making economic reforms of financial institutions, deregulation, privatization, the postal service reform."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, made veiled suggestions yesterday in Tokyo that Japan and China should stop weakening their currencies as a means of increasing exports. His next stop will be Beijing. (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TARO ASO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



31 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Reading, Writing and Body Waxing; 
A Back-to-School List for the Image-Conscious Teenager

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: HEWLETT, N.Y., Aug. 28 

 BODY:
Surrounded by throbbing dance music and heads shrouded in foil, Samantha Friedman, 15, sat inside the Aqua Salon and ran through her back-to-school agenda. 
 Her haircut was already out of the way. (Her stylist had lopped off six inches.) That left a manicure and pedicure at Diva Nails, then an eyebrow wax. Samantha is starting her sophomore year at Hewlett High School, and she planned to look just right for the occasion. 
 The back-to-school rush has reached a feverish pitch here and across the region. But increasingly, especially for teenagers in affluent suburbs like this where reputations and cliques solidify faster than cold gravy, it is less about pencils and notebooks and more about the high-gloss, high-expense business of personal appearance. 
"It's like the new start of everything," Samantha said. "Everyone will say they don't care, but they do. Everyone's trying so hard. Everyone's at the tanning salon. Like seven kids I know got nose jobs just this week."
Teenagers across cultures and income levels buff themselves before school, but in affluent enclaves like Long Island's Five Towns, Scarsdale in Westchester County or Wyckoff, N.J., the preening is lavish and elaborate, and a force in the local service economies.
So what's on the menu? According to Irma Zandl, a Manhattan consultant who studies trends among teenagers, this year, it's Japanese hair straightening, Brazilian bikini waxing, teeth whitening at a dental day spa and eyebrow sculpturing.
"These girls are going to school with girls just like them who have a very discerning eye," Ms. Zandl said. "Everything has to be perfect. The school is where the drama is, and the more perfect you are, the smoother your way will be."
Here in Hewlett, south of Valley Stream in Nassau County, where the mean family income is $96,100, according to the 2000 census, and high school students cruise the neighborhood in leased BMW's, businesses are deep into the back-to-school frenzy. At the Aqua Salon, one of Hewlett's most popular among teenagers, the owners said the back-to-school crowd had increased their business by 20 to 30 percent.
"It's an image transformation time," said Perry Golino, 38, a co-owner of the salon who does only coloring, no cuts, and has a three-week waiting list. "I see the pattern. A lot of kids every summer go through a transition. It's a stage performance, the first week of school."
Some were returning to high school, while others, like Lauren Hanono, were going back to college. In a day and a half, Ms. Hanono, 19, of Lawrence, N.Y., crammed in a hair coloring, a haircut, a manicure and body wax and an eyebrow wax. It's service she said she couldn't find in Bloomington, Ind., where she is a junior at Indiana University.
"It's like roughing it," said Ms. Hanono, a communications major.
Holly Green, who owns the Infinity Boutique, a specialized clothing shop in Cedarhurst, N.Y., said that besides Christmas, this was her busiest season. Teenagers flock to Ms. Green's store, raving about her talents in altering jeans.
Ms. Green, 52, who was once sent home from high school for wearing a miniskirt, now finds herself working 6 a.m. to midnight making similar fashions. The back-to-school clientele spends about $20,000 to $30,000 there each week, she said.
"We're totally booked," Ms. Green said. "Everyone just comes in. Some people are a little nuts, some people are compulsive, some are neurotic. It's like a bakery. We're practically taking numbers."
Summer was a lull, but around the second week of August, the teenagers began pouring back from summer camps, group sightseeing tours and college prep programs. In different ways, they begin to focus on that first day of school. Last year, Lauren Zeluck, now 15, was so nervous that she cried for five hours the night before. Sam Berg, a sophomore, has already planned her outfit: striped jeans, a pink collared shirt and a tank top with spaghetti straps.
"You want to look different every year," said Stevania Williams, 16, as she ran her tongue back and forth across her teeth. "With me, I got my braces taken off today. It felt weird; it felt smooth."
Wednesday afternoon, Stevania, a junior at Uniondale High School, was waiting for her father to pick her up from her orthodontist's office. She'd had the braces on for two years, and she had timed their removal just right.
Stevania was one of 90 patients who visited Dr. Seth Kleinrock's office that day, and 140 were scheduled the next day for tightenings, or to replace a retainer lost or bracket broken over the summer. At dentists' and physicians' offices in the area, appointment books were filled, as parents had scheduled checkups months in advance.
At the beach or beside her backyard pool in Wyckoff, Amanda Katz, 15, operated under the simple principle of the darker the tan, the better it looks. Her friends, too. School means six to eight hours of drawn shades and fluorescent lights, so they are flocking to the shore for midriffs the color of stained oak.
"You want everyone to be like, 'She looks good or different,' " Amanda said.
The beauty curve began around fourth grade with mother-daughter trips to the nail salon and ramped up fast, said a group of teenage girls who got together on a recent evening for one of many end-of-summer parties. They go to the salons alone now, or with one another, but their parents still pay for the visits, through credit cards or allowances.
"They don't care about school -- they care about getting primped," said Jody Linsky, who lives in Hewlett and has two teenage daughters. "It's good to live now, right?"
At the party, different sides of the girls emerge as they talk. They have already lost a best friend, who died of an aneurysm last summer. They fawn over new cellphones and Von Dutch hats, but they speak with a steely knowingness about boys in their grade who get drunk a lot and violent sometimes. They hug one another constantly, and one of them chats breezily while a male friend gives her a hickey on the neck.
"I feel like high school changes you so much," said Samantha Chaplin, 15. Earlier that day, her brown hair had received rivers of blond highlights, and a slight man named Sid had plucked her eyebrows with a piece of twisted thread. "When we were in middle school, it was the outfit," she said. "Now, it's the whole package."
On Wednesday night, Marissa Fuchs, a sophomore, and two of her friends were hanging out in an upstairs bedroom of a friend's house, considering their reasons for going to all the effort. 
Perched on a double bed, they contemplated the options: were they preening for their friends, for the older guys at school, or maybe, just to feel good, just for themselves?
No, Marissa said. It's all about giving a good first impression to your teachers.
At that, her friends fell back onto the bed like rag dolls, laughing and laughing.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A haircut at the Aqua Salon was only a small part of the fall beauty overhaul for Lauren Hanono, 19, of Lawrence, N.Y. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times); Lindsey Schmitt, 14, of Jericho, N.Y., tried on a dress yesterday at the Infinity Boutique, a clothing shop in Cedarhurst, N.Y. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (89%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (78%); TANNING SALONS (73%); MUSIC (73%); TRENDS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); CENSUS (50%) Education and Schools

PERSON: Patrick Healy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



32 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: At Parade, St. Lucians Raise Loud, Joyful Voice for Small Country 

BYLINE:  By ERIN CHAN

 BODY:
Richard Joseph left the Micoud district on the tiny Caribbean island of St. Lucia in the late 1980's, after banana farming exhausted him.
 But that did not mean he would forever leave behind farming, family or his fellow countrymen, roughly 160,000 of them. 
 After he put down the machete he used to cut bananas from the trees in St. Lucia and moved to Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Mr. Joseph began cultivating a tiny vegetable garden in front of an apartment building he supervises at 919 Eastern Parkway. 
Yesterday, the street in front of Mr. Joseph's garden became the hub for St. Lucians living in the New York area to get together at the West Indian American Day Parade in what has become a Labor Day tradition.
Joining a sea of paradegoers, hundreds of people dressed in the country's black, yellow, blue and white colors -- to set themselves apart from the reds, whites and blacks of Trinidad and Tobago, and the greens, blacks and yellows of Jamaica, among other Caribbean countries. They gathered near tents erected between Troy and Albany Avenues. 
Dwarfed by other Caribbean countries like Jamaica, whose population stands at about 2.7 million, St. Lucians "have to represent," said Beverly Plummer, 36. "You have to put your colors on. With us, it's a celebration," she added.
"We don't think of it as 'Oh, just wear T-shirts,' " she continued. "We think of it as identifying our country and where we came from."
Ms. Plummer, who is originally from Castries, St. Lucia's capital, wore a St. Lucia wristband on her ankle and a bright yellow St. Lucia T-shirt, and occasionally ducked under her niece's St. Lucia umbrella. Behind her, St. Lucia's flag hung from a fire escape. Its yellow, black and white triangle stood for what she said she loved about her native country: "the land, the people and the light."
Lance Michael Inglis, 31, originally of Gros Islet, St. Lucia, said of his country, "People always ask me, what part of Jamaica is that?"
Located southeast of Puerto Rico, and 1,100 miles from Jamaica, St. Lucia remains in the British Commonwealth but formally gained its independence six years ago. 
At the parade, rain fell on the spectators, as it did last year, but it neither dampened Caribbean joy nor stymied St. Lucian spirit. 
"We all come together as one," gushed Mr. Joseph, 35, who wore a bandanna of St. Lucia's flag over his hat. "We have a togetherness. Anywhere there's an event and there's St. Lucians, we take part." 
Once in a while, Mr. Joseph kicked back with a drink or watched his cousin shake his hips to a couple of soca rhythms. Other times, he scoured the streets to make change for his sister, who ran a food booth that dished out curried chicken, rice and beans. Beside her stood tents filled with women scooping out other St. Lucian specialties: saltfish, bananas, bake (a type of fried dough) and goat stew. 
As the parade proceeded, the crowd of St. Lucian revelers grew and spanned the wide section of the block from the apartment buildings to the parade rails. St. Lucians met St. Lucians, who sometimes let out delighted screams as they spotted each other.
As mas bands -- groups of people dressed in masquerade costumes -- passed Ms. Plummer and her family on Eastern Parkway, they waved their St. Lucia flags and jumped to the soca and calypso beats, sometimes letting out shouts of "It's a Carnival!" 
The St. Lucians do not just come together; they come with their families. Beside Ms. Plummer stood her son, Christopher, 13. She said they drove two hours from Hartford to attend the parade. Behind Christopher stood his cousins, Tara and Anita Maxwell, who are originally from Vieux Fort, St. Lucia. Beside them, their parents watched.
Ms. Plummer, eyes gleaming, spoke of how much she loved Creole, a French patois that she called the country's second language after English. Or how the gray-colored sand in some southern parts of St. Lucia reflects the ash of the island's volcanoes and how the turquoise water is so clear that you can watch your toes wiggle underneath it. But she, like most others, spoke most fondly of its people, whom she lauded as friendly, laid back and willing to go out of their way to help. 
A few steps in front of Mr. Joseph's garden, Mr. Inglis took in the scene before him. "You see St. Lucians together," he said. "You see them out of the country, and they still stand together. Part of it is feeling comfort, and part of it is not feeling left out. The greatest thing is that we show that we are here."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about a celebration in Brooklyn by immigrants from the Caribbean island of St. Lucia misstated the date of the island's independence. It was in 1979, not six years ago.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants from the Caribbean island of St. Lucia celebrated yesterday in Brooklyn during the West Indian American Day Parade. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "AT A GLANCE: ST. LUCIA"CAPITAL: CastriesAREA: 239 sq. miles -- (U.S.: 3,717,796 sq. miles.)POPULATION: 162,157 (July 2003 est.) -- (U.S.: 271 million)G.D.P. PER CAPITA*: $5,400 (2002 est.) -- (U.S.: $30,200)EXPORTS: Bananas, clothing, cocoa, vegetables, coconut oil.LANGUAGES: English (official)RELIGIONS: Roman Catholic 90%, Anglican 3%, Other Protestant 7%ETHNICITY: 90% black African, 6% mixed race, 3% East Indian, 1% Caucasian Map of the Caribbean highlighting the location of St. Lucia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); REFUGEES (74%) West Indian-American Day; Parades ; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Erin Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) SAINT LUCIA (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAMAICA (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%) St Lucia; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



33 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: CHINA SEEN READY TO CONCILIATE U.S. ON TRADE AND JOBS 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
China is preparing to reduce incentives for exporters, increase purchases of Treasury bonds and loosen controls on foreign currency holdings to blunt mounting pressure from the United States, where its growing trade surplus has come under heavy political scrutiny, Chinese officials and analysts say.
 The steps are expected to be among concessions Chinese leaders offer Treasury Secretary John W. Snow on his visit to Beijing this week, although they fall well short of meeting Mr. Snow's demand that China begin allowing market forces to set the value of its currency, the yuan. 
 With Democratic presidential candidates, influential American manufacturers and even Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, pressing China to overhaul its currency system, officials here are eager to head off trade tensions. But they are also determined to maintain the current exchange rate, set at roughly 8.3 yuan to the dollar, for some time to come. 
"People do not want Mr. Snow to go away disappointed," said a financial expert affiliated with China's State Planning Commission who has been involved in preparations for the visit. "But the decision on the yuan has been made. There will be no change at this time."
The issue reflects the growing sensitivity of China's trade surplus in the United States and its robust economic growth, which some critics say is coming at the expense of American jobs.
It is also an early test for the new generation of China's leaders, who will be called upon to handle inevitable diplomatic frictions as the country attracts tens of billions of dollars annually in foreign investment and posts year-on-year export growth of more than 20 percent, much faster than other major economies.
China passed Japan last year as the country with the largest trade surplus with the United States, at $103 billion. That has made it a prime target for producers of textiles, auto parts and other ailing industries, which say China is stealing their business by currency manipulation.
The situation is reminiscent of economic tensions with Japan in the 1980's. China today and Japan then had rapidly growing trade surpluses and currencies that many analysts said were kept artificially cheap to promote exports. On his first stop today in Tokyo, Mr. Snow took veiled aim at both the weak yen and the weak yuan. Page C1. 
Yet China's economy now is more open to foreign investment than Japan's was then, and multinational companies like Dell and Wal-Mart influence China's low-cost production as big employers and purchasers. China's leaders know this makes it less likely that they would face heavy trade sanctions, as any penalties would raise the price American consumers pay for goods as diverse as socks and laptop computers, analysts say.
"Like it or not, China and the U.S. are married," said Andy Xie, chief Asia economist for Morgan Stanley. "China is very sensitive to U.S. concerns. But the leaders also know that there isn't really that much the U.S. can do about China's trade power."
Mr. Snow, who arrives in Beijing on Tuesday for two days of meetings with top financial officials, has said he intends the press the Chinese to at least widen the tiny band within which the yuan is allowed to fluctuate in currency market trading. Most currency traders think such a move would quickly cause the yuan to rise in value against the dollar, increasing the dollar cost of Chinese-made goods.
His hosts are prepared to tell him that China intends to loosen currency controls in the long term and allow the yuan to find its market value. But they have no intention of doing so immediately because they do not want to alter the formula that has produced a decade-long run of fast economic growth and helped protect the Communist Party's political power.
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao has all but ruled out any significant change in the exchange rate, calling the stable yuan a "cornerstone of China's sustained economic and financial stability and development."
Mr. Wen, who became prime minister in the spring, has not yet laid the political groundwork to confront a contentious issue like the exchange rate, officials and analysts said.
"This kind of decision is made very slowly in China, after many interested parties have had a chance to express their views," said Zhang Yaxiong, a senior economist at the State Information Center, a Beijing research group, who wrote a widely circulated study that advocated a freer exchange rate. "The direction is toward more liberalization," he said. "But no one is prepared to give a date for when it will happen. It depends on too many factors."
Instead, Chinese officials are preparing short-term measures to channel more of the country's export earnings into the international economy without changes in the exchange rate.
One step is to cut or eliminate some export subsidies that give its industries a further competitive edge. Among the possibilities under discussion are steps to cancel or sharply reduce tax rebates paid to exporters in sensitive industries like textiles, shoes and furniture.
Mr. Xie estimates that a reduction in rebates could force companies in the industries involved to raise their prices by about 5 percent. That could eliminate some of the gain from recent swings in the value of the dollar, although given the enormous cost advantages of producing such goods in China, it would probably do little to stimulate manufacturing in the United States.
China is also using its large pool of foreign currency reserves, which now total $356 billion, to buy more United States Treasury bonds. In the first six months of this year, it bought a record $41 billion of Treasuries, less than Japan but far more than any other foreign country.
Officials are expected to promise that they will continue to use currency reserves this way, which helps reduce interest rates in the United States, even though some analysts say the money could be better invested domestically.
The Beijing authorities have already begun publicizing rules that would allow individuals to take more foreign currency with them when they travel abroad. The government also may revise regulations on the amount of foreign currency that companies can retain when they sell their goods overseas. Both steps are expected to stimulate spending on foreign-made products and services, potentially reducing the trade surplus.
On the potent issue of the yuan's value, however, stability is the watchword.
The yuan was fixed at 8.28 to the dollar in 1994 and has barely budged in value since then. Chinese officials argue that for much of the last decade, the fixed currency was a disadvantage because the dollar rose steadily against most other currencies, making the yuan more expensive and working against the sale of Chinese products in foreign markets.
Yet exports did well anyway, benefiting from a seemingly boundless supply of low-wage labor and a proliferation of foreign-financed factories. And China-made products have received a big boost over the last year, after the dollar reversed course and fell against many major currencies, making Chinese goods more competitive.
Some domestic and international economists have argued that China should seize the opportunity presented by its trade and financial surpluses to begin liberalizing the yuan. They argue that it will eventually have to take this step anyway and should do so from a position of strength.
Fred Hu, chief China economist for Goldman Sachs, says the currency peg is contributing to an overheating of the domestic economy. The influx of foreign investment and foreign trade earnings have helped fuel rapid increases in the money supply and raised fears of inflation, even as the fixed exchange rate has created tension with trading partners. By freeing the exchange rate, he said, China could solve two problems at once.
"This is a golden opportunity for China," Mr. Hu said. "This is something they will have to do eventually, and if they wait until they are forced, it's too late."
Yet the political pressure from outside China to revalue the yuan has been countered by domestic lobbying to maintain the current system. Some officials fear that any adjustment in currency policy could threaten Chinese banks, which by some estimates have nearly one in three of their loans unpaid. Banks are arguably ill prepared to withstand exchange-rate volatility.
The issue, Mr. Hu said, is bogged down in bureaucratic inertia that may take much more time, and perhaps considerably more outside pressure, to dislodge.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "China's Rise"U.S. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow will meet this week with Chinese officials in hopes of curbing China's growing trade surplus. Graph tracks China's trade surplus to the U.S. in billions of dollars from 1989-2002. (Source by U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TEXTILE MFG (70%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (61%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



34 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL; 
Building Self-Esteem, One Victory At a Time

BYLINE:  By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: FORT WAYNE, Ind., Sept. 1 

 BODY:
The high school football season began on a Friday night here, just as it does at this time every year everywhere in America, with padded players colliding under electric lights, bands playing, cheerleaders jumping and bleachers full of family and friends.
 And when Fort Wayne Elmhurst fell behind a city rival, Bishop Dwenger, 7-0, on that particular Friday night in its opener Aug. 22, that also seemed routine. Elmhurst had not won a game since 1996, a 64-game streak that was one of the longest in the country. 
 But then, an unexpected event jolted Fort Wayne the way the dynamite blast at the limestone quarry next door shakes Elmhurst High each day.
 The Trojans built a lead of 27-7. And as the mounting score was announced at other high school fields around town, spectators left those games to join a growing parade toward Bishop Dwenger's field, said people who retold the story last week. 
 The players from nearby Concordia High School, fresh from their own game and still in uniform, stopped by and knelt on the sideline.
 Chris Friedman, 23, who played four years of football at Elmhurst and now works at a local hotel, heard the score on the radio while driving the hotel van. He arrived with television news trucks screeching to the scene. "I had to see it for myself," he said.
 Elmhurst survived a Dwenger comeback to win, 27-23. The players showered their coach, Roosevelt Norfleet, with Gatorade. Some cried. The celebration on the field lasted about an hour. "It was time to shock the world, or at least shock the state," Norfleet said.
 Such a victory is a big deal in a county of about 330,000 people, where high school football is the leading sports story on Friday night newscasts and graduates tend to stay close to home and true to their schools. Many Elmhurst graduates are the first from their families to go to college, families that the school principal describes as hard working and blue collar.
 So despite losing the second game of the season Friday night, Elmhurst has found that a 1-1 record brings with it incalculable self-esteem.
 The principal, Laura Taliaferro, said that even if 90 percent of her students passed a standardized state test, "I would not get one-tenth of the coverage we got from winning a football game."
 Don Goss, a fine arts teacher who has worked with the drama club through several Elmhurst generations, said one store owner gave the school free art supplies to celebrate the football victory.
 And Goss added that even theater students reacted to the event by participating in a pep rally of celebration. "It's one of the most memorable experiences of their lives," said Goss, who is not much of a sports buff. "It is a top-notch benchmark that they will always remember. Indelible."
 Like most high schools, Elmhurst is a world unto itself for students in their years between childhood and adulthood. Located in the southwestern quadrant of the metropolitan area, it is a big pile of yellowish bricks that sits in a mixed-use neighborhood amid businesses, cornfields, new condominium developments and old streets of single homes.
 Norfleet, 29, in his second year as coach, took the position only when he was guaranteed a day job inside the school that would help him persuade good athletes from other sports to try out for football. Taliaferro, also in her second year, put Norfleet in charge of discipline and truancy. 
 Julie Hollingsworth, the athletic director, said the search committee liked that Norfleet had played Division III football at Anderson University in Anderson, Ind., had gotten a tryout with the Indianapolis Colts, had worked as an assistant coach at rival South Side High and still looked like an athlete. "His size and his build help," Hollingsworth said. "He's a big guy."
 Norfleet's most important recruit was his cousin, James Hardy, a 6-foot-7 wide receiver who joined the football team last year as a junior. Hardy is a basketball star who plans to attend Indiana University on scholarship. He lives with Norfleet, who is also his guardian, and Hardy's presence helped entice other athletes to give football a try.
 "Every week, everybody knew we were going to lose," Hardy said of previous years. "Now, you can see the support." Indeed, the student council decorated the school walls with signs that read "64 No More" and "Thanks, Guys" and "Do it Again!" The players wore T-shirts that read "It's Time."
 Even though several more students volunteered for football after the opening-night victory, the Trojans dressed only 40 players (and 28 cheerleaders) for the second game. The Northrop Bruins dressed 77 players and beat Elmhurst, 51-7. Norfleet said it would take time to compete regularly.
 "We've got the most diverse school in the city," Norfleet said, "from ghetto to upper-class white people to upper-class black people. In styles, we've got everything from Goth to hip-hop. Our academics are good, as far as the nerdy people. But it's hard to get all these backgrounds together for one team. Working with discipline and attendance can get crazy at times, but you can get to know them and they get to trust you and you can build a bond with them."
 The school sits in this rugged town between Detroit and Chicago, where the economy is not what it once was and crime is not a stranger. Taliaferro said her first year as principal in 2002 began with the murder of a student, a girl who was abducted outside her home by five people, stripped naked, then shot in the head. They left her body in a cornfield and set it afire.
 Taliaferro said starting her second year with a momentous football victory was at the opposite end of the emotional spectrum. She said Elmhurst had about 950 students and was somewhat isolated by its location on the fringe of town.
 "We are middle class to lower-middle class," she said. About 15 percent of the students are classified as minority, she said, and about 40 percent to 50 percent of the graduates attend four-year colleges, usually nearby.
 Vicky VerPlanck, the yearbook adviser, said she was a substitute teacher for several years at all the schools in the district and preferred Elmhurst because "it has an underdog quality."
 "I like the kids," she said. "I like the staff. I see fewer fights in this building than anyplace else." But the building's facilities, she said, are "pathetic compared to the other schools'."
 Elmhurst was built in 1929. Friedman, the former football player, said its age became evident when the students would march to the basement for tornado drills and see "all those old desks and equipment" covered in dust. "It's kind of an eerie building," he said. "It's back in the middle of nowhere."
 The victory put the school from nowhere on the map. But in the week after, Coach Norfleet said it was difficult to refocus the players on the game against Northrop because of all the fuss.
 After practice on Thursday, a television crew showed up with a truckload of pizza and big bottles of soda from a local restaurant, a sponsorship deal in which the team of the week is honored with food while the camera crew tapes them eating it.
 The next night, in a misty drizzle at Northrop's Spuller Stadium, more fans than usual were supporting Elmhurst in the visitors' bleachers.
 The Trojans kept it competitive for the first half, trailing by 21-7 at intermission. But realities of the competition and the danger of the sport become apparent in the second half as the deficit mounted and Charles Pearson, another Elmhurst receiver, did not get up from a tackle after a Northrop interception.
 As Pearson lay still on his back on the 44-yard line, doctors and trainers rushed to him. Players for both teams knelt in prayer while a fog descended from the night sky toward the wet grass. 
 Pearson was strapped to a stretcher and carried away in an ambulance while the fans applauded. 
 The Elmhurst players then gave up 16 points in the last nine minutes. Afterward, as they trudged to their three yellow buses, a few groused among themselves about penalties and turnovers, and a couple of the players shouted: "Discipline! Discipline!"
 Norfleet gave them the next two days off and they met this morning, on Labor Day, at the school to prepare for Game 3 on Friday night against Harding, their first home game of the season. "We've still got a losing streak at home," Norfleet reminded his players.
 He told them Pearson was released from the hospital emergency room Friday night but had a bruise near his spine and would miss at least one game.
 In the film session, Norfleet told quarterback Mickey Owens to look for receivers other than Hardy, even if Pearson doesn't play. "You just can't keep throwing to a guy who's double-and triple-covered," he said to Owens. To the rest of the players, Norfleet added: "I think you guys gave up after Charles was hurt. That shouldn't happen."
 Owens agreed that the injury shook the team. "After Charles got injured, it didn't seem like a real football game," he said. "He was laying on the ground real quiet and it seemed real scary."
 In the weight room, before Norfleet turned up the stereo, he told his players: "Try to do two sets of everything! Two sets of everything!" The dark, empty halls of the school echoed with music, shouts and laughter of the players and the clink of weights rising and falling as a cool, steady rain lashed the windows of the school.
 Owens finished his work and, as he headed out to the wet streets, looked back on the first two games and ahead to the next one. "It was the talk of the town," he said of the victory in Game 1. "I think we let it go to our heads a little bit.
 "We can only get better. No reason we shouldn't have a winning record. I think we'll be ready for this Friday."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The arrival of James Hardy, above, helped change Elmhurst's fortunes. Charles Pearson, below, exulting in victory shortly before the fans stormed the field to celebrate the end of a 64-game losing streak. (Photographs by Samuel Hoffman/Fort Wayne Journal Gazette)(pg. D1); Coach Roosevelt Norfleet being doused by his players after Elmhurst ended a 64-game losing streak. (Photo by Samuel Hoffman/ Fort Wayne Journal Gazette)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%) Football

PERSON: Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (94%) INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Fort Wayne (Ind)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



35 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Swiss Maker Of Chocolate Will Acquire Brach's Candy

BYLINE:  By ALISON LANGLEY

DATELINE: ZURICH, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In seeking to expand into the world's largest confectionary market, the Swiss maker of bulk chocolate, Barry Callebaut said today that it would buy the struggling penny-candy maker Brach's Confections Inc. for a symbolic $1 and an agreement to assume $16 million of debt.
 Barry Callebaut also agreed to help Brach's with its revamping, which is expected to cost up to $48 million over the next five years. 
 Brach's, which is based in Illinois and known for its butterscotch-flavored candies and the perennial Halloween candy corn, is a mid-tier confectioner, fighting the world's big four candy makers -- Nestle, Hershey, Mars and Kraft -- for space in the consumer's stomach and the retailer's shelf. It has been hurt by frequent management changes and an antiquated plant in Chicago. 
It employs 1,600 people worldwide and had sales of $340 million in its 2002-3 fiscal year that ended in August. It gave no profit figures. 
Barry Callebaut, which stresses its quality, is the world's largest maker of chocolate that is sold to other food industry producers like bakeries or cereal manufacturers, which use it to make final products. In buying Brach's, executives said they were turning Callebaut into a bean-to-shelf company that would also sell finished chocolate and confectionary products to consumers.
The chief executive of Barry Callebaut, Andreas Schmid, said today that the deal would give it a toe in the door of the $21 billion confectionary market in the United States. 
More important than Brach's products, Mr. Schmid said, was its established relationship with large retailers, like Wal-Mart, Kroger's and Safeway.
"These retailers have a size which corresponds to the size of a country's economy. Getting access to them or strengthening them is Barry Callebaut's key interest in Brach's," Mr. Schmid said today at a news conference.
Barry Callebaut will be able to use Brach's retail network to sell products made from its German subsidiary Stollwerck, which makes chocolate products not sold in the United States. Products by Stollwerck, which Callebaut bought in 2002, include the brands Sarotti and Alpia.
The transaction will expand the revenue from Callebaut's consumer products business to 45 percent of total sales from 23 percent. 
With the deal, Brach's, preparing to celebrate its 100th year in 2004, gets the cash injection it needs to complete its restructuring. Through its current owner, Klaus Jacobs, the Swiss chocolate and coffee billionaire, Brach's built a candy plant in Mexico last year to replace the antiquated one in Chicago.
Brach's has also hired a manufacturing company in Argentina. When the 75-year-old Chicago plant is shut down by the end of the year, Brach's will have two factories in the United States -- one in Chattanooga, Tenn., and one in Winona, Ill.
Jacobs-Suchard acquired Brach's in 1986. When Jacobs-Suchard, the coffee and chocolate maker, was bought by Philip Morris four years later, Mr. Jacobs kept Brach's. Mr. Jacobs merged Callebaut, a Belgian company he bought in 1981, with Cacao Barry, a French chocolate maker, in 1996. He remains the majority owner of Barry Callebaut, with 69 percent, through his family holding company, KJ Jacobs.
Mr. Schmid, Barry Callebaut's chairman, said the board had been considering buying Brach's for a while. Analysts appear mixed about the sale, while shares in the company rose 2.7 percent, to 193.50 Swiss francs on the news.
Mario Montagnani, an analyst for Pictet et Compagnie, noted that less than 20 percent of Brach's sales were in the chocolate market and there appeared to be few common elements that would allow the companies to work well together. Last year, Callebaut sold a factory making gummi bears because it did not fit into the core business, he said.
"It's another acquisition which, in my view, doesn't fit into the business model," Mr. Montagnani said.
But Ronald Wildmann, head of research at Bank Leu, said: "It's a very good deal for both companies. The price Callebaut paid was low." He added that the deal gave Callebaut a strong distribution network.
"They're not acquiring synergies," Mr. Wildmann said, "they're buying distribution." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (92%); CONFECTIONERY (91%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOD MFG (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); HALLOWEEN (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); BAKERIES (73%); BREAKFAST CEREAL MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FARLEY'S & SATHERS CANDY CO INC (93%); BARRY CALLEBAUT AG (92%); MARS INC (92%); NESTLE SA (56%)

TICKER: BARN (SWX) (92%); NESN (SWX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (93%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (93%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (93%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); ZURICH (78%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



36 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Point to Economy and Jobs as Reasons to Vote Democratic 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Randal C. Archibold, Diane Cardwell, David M. Halbfinger and Jodi Wilgoren contributed to this article.

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
The Democratic presidential candidates used Labor Day today to try to capitalize on unease over the economy, portraying President Bush as hostile to workers and highlighting the loss of jobs as an imperative for removing him from office.
 "Jobs and health care are the two biggest issues here," said Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, standing in the shadow of the gold-domed state Capitol as he prepared to step off in the annual Labor Day parade. 
 "People are concerned about what's happening in Iraq right now," Mr. Edwards added. "But I think the driving force in their day-to-day lives are jobs and health care." 
Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont who is riding a wave of popularity in the Democratic contest, cast the economy as a personal failure of the president.
"This is just a guy who's breaking his promises," Dr. Dean said of President Bush after the parade. "He promised us jobs, he's taken away jobs. He promised us peace, he took us to war."
The nation's unemployment rate reached a nine-year high of 6.4 percent in June. It fell to 6.2 percent in July, a sign to some economists that the economy is improving.
Still, nine million people are on the unemployment rolls, an increase of 700,000 over this time last year. Polls show that the economy is the dominant issue on voters' minds and indicate that it could undermine the president's standing.
A CBS News poll released over the weekend found that the economy was far and away the overriding issue, with 24 percent of registered voters saying they wanted candidates to explain what they would do about it. In distant second place was the war in Iraq, with9 percent of voters citing that as the chief problem they wanted the candidates to address.
The White House is well aware of the concern about the economy. The president donned a union jacket today and tried to reassure members of the International Union of Operating Engineers in Ohio that creating jobs was his priority. "We want everybody in this country working," Mr. Bush declared. He also defended his tax cuts and promoted his extension of unemployment insurance. 
His remarks, and the Democrats' message, seemed a stark reminder of the potency of the economy as a political issue, even in a post-Sept. 11 world.
The Democrats had another motivation today for speaking out about jobs. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. is still looking over the field for a candidate to back. It plans to endorse someone in mid-October. Who gets the nod -- and the federation's enviable muscle on the ground in the primaries -- is one of the mysteries hanging over the race.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri had seemed a likely recipient early on because of his strong ties to labor, but officials have expressed concern over his ability to win and said the endorsement was up for grabs.
President Bush's destination today reflected in part the fact that he faces no primary opposition. He went directly to a populous state that is usually a battleground in the general election and where unemployment has jumped by 60 percent since he took office.
The Democrats, on the other hand, shared crowded stages in Iowa and New Hampshire, small but early-voting states. Iowa's precinct caucuses are scheduled for Jan. 19, followed by the New Hampshire primary on Jan. 29. 
The Democrats sparred less with one another today and voiced a nearly uniform message -- that an ailing economy is having profound effects on people's lives. A CNN/USA Today poll released Thursday showed that 52 percent of Americans disapproved of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy, a political gift to the Democrats, who have been angling for traction against him for months.
Unemployment in Iowa was 2.9 percent when Mr. Bush took office in January 2001 and hit 4.6 percent this July, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Unemployment in New Hampshire was 2.8 percent in January 2001, and 4.3 percent this July, down from a high of 5 percent in December 2002.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, campaigning in Davenport, Iowa, focused on anxiety over health care costs as a fallout of unemployment. In a preview of the health care plan that he will lay out on Tuesday, Senator Lieberman said he wanted to help workers pay for health insurance if they lost their jobs. They can buy coverage now, but they have to pay all of the costs.
Senator Lieberman said that his "KeepCare" initiative would help low-wage workers with health insurance premiums by providing a 65 percent refundable tax credit in advance. Under his plan, he said, no worker would have to pay more than 7.5 percent of his or her income to receive coverage.
"It's an embarrassment and an outrage that in the richest country in the world, families have to pray that their kids won't get sick -- just to make it through the month and pay their bills," he said in a stop at a medical center.
Many of the candidates seemed to speak with the pending A.F.L.-C.I.O. endorsement in mind.
Mr. Edwards proposed a variety of initiatives to help workers, including legislation sought by labor leaders and pushed by other members of Congress to make it easier to organize new locals and bar corporations from hiring permanent replacement workers in a strike.
At a candidate forum after the parade, Mr. Edwards said he would support unions enthusiastically and would promote ideas to increase jobs, an area where he said Mr. Bush had fallen short.
"Does he ever say anything about what he is going to do to create and protect jobs, other than a tax cut for the richest Americans?" Mr. Edwards asked.
The Dean campaign placed an advertisement in The Des Moines Register today listing 100 union leaders who have endorsed him. 
"It's the worst economy we've had in a long time for working people," Dr. Dean said as he walked in the parade behind iron workers. "The numbers may not be that bad, but people are really hurting."
In a similar vein, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, who marched in the parade with a red firetruck, announced that he had formed a steering committee comprising 32 members from 15 Iowa labor unions. Mr. Kucinich, who has the highest lifetime rating from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. of any candidate, has pledged to cancel the North American Free Trade Agreement, which is unpopular with labor and a source of some dispute among the candidates.
Mr. Kucinich said the others were trying to blur their previous support for the trade agreement. "They're trying to fog it up, and I'm going to start shining the light through the fog here and force these candidates to take clear-cut positions," he said.
Mr. Gephardt and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts were in New Hampshire today, and both addressed union leaders at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s annual Labor Day breakfast in Manchester.
"The only jobs George Bush has created in America are the nine of us running for president," Senator Kerry said. "We could put people to work tomorrow if we had a president who cared about it," he said. "It's shameful -- governors across the country are laying people off and raising taxes because George W. Bush is thumping his chest and saying, 'I gave you a tax cut.' "
Mr. Gephardt spoke to labor concerns, saying: "President Bush is using the federal budget to diminish worker training programs while bolstering federal investigations into union practices. He is using regulatory laws to cut overtime pay, he is stalling ergonomics standards and he is promoting trade agreements that will lower wage and environmental standards across the globe."
Although Mr. Gephardt was in New Hampshire, his campaign made itself felt at the parade here in Iowa, a state his aides say is a must-win for him. He won the Iowa caucus in 1988 when he last ran for president, but he is trailing in the polls today, both here and in New Hampshire.
Senator Bob Graham of Florida, marching in the parade here, accused the president of having pulled a bait-and-switch on the public by promising to address domestic issues and pay down the national debt but cutting taxes instead.
"You know what happened friends?" Mr. Graham asked union members inside an exhibit hall at the Iowa State Fairgrounds after the parade. "The only thing that happened was to give money back, but not to all the people. To the richest people in the United States of America. We haven't paid down a dime on the national debt. In fact, we've added two to three trillion dollars."
In the end, all the candidates, with their splashy placards and T-shirts and candy-tossing along the parade route, were fighting another finding of the recent CBS poll -- that 65 percent of registered voters cannot name one Democratic candidate.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about Democratic presidential candidates' assertions that President Bush has mishandled the economy misstated the date of the New Hampshire primary. It is Jan. 27, not 29.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, with State Senator Joe Seng and Mr. Seng's campaign manager, Pat Bear, sang yesterday in Davenport, Iowa. Representative Richard A. Gephardt and his wife, Jane, at the parade in Milford, N.H. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Larry Fisher/The Quad-City Times, via Associated Press) Chart: "Fall Campaign Calendar"With Labor Day past, the race for the Democratic presidential nomination accelerates. Some dates to look out for: SEPT. 2CHARLESTON, S.C. -- Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts formally announces his candidacy. SEPT. 4ALBUQUERQUE -- First of six official Democratic debates, with hosts Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico and members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. SEPT. 9BALTIMORE -- Unofficial debate, held by the Congressional Black Caucus Institute and Fox News Channel. SEPT. 13INDIANOLA, IOWA -- Senator Tom Harkins 26th annual Harkin Steak Fry, with former President Bill Clinton. SEPT. 16ROBBINS, N.C. -- Senator John Edwards formally announces his candidacy in the town where he grew up. SEPT. 25NEW YORK -- Second official debate, sponsored by CNBC and The Wall Street Journal. OCT. 12PHOENIX -- Third debate, with hosts Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona and the Arizona Democratic Party. OCT. 15WASHINGTON -- Candidates fund-raising reports for the third quarter due at the Federal Election Commission. OCT. 26DETROIT -- Fourth official debate. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus are the hosts. NOV. ? DEC. ?The fifth and sixth official debates in Iowa and New Hampshire, with dates and locations still to be announced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (72%) IOWA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



37 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: In Baltimore, Slogan Collides With Reality 

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Aug. 29 

 BODY:
Darrell Brooks stood at the front of a courtroom, tears streaming down his cheeks, and choked out an apology.
 He had killed seven people, five of them children, and now he said he felt sorry. 
 "I will never, ever, as long as there is breath in my lungs, ever forgive myself," he said last Wednesday. "I knew those kids. I loved them. I swear I didn't mean it, I swear." 
The lanky Mr. Brooks was off to prison for life for burning down a house full of people last October, a crime that seared the heart of this city and blasted a signal that things in Baltimore were still out of control.
Mr. Brooks, a drug dealer, did not Believe. He had not gotten the message, stamped all over the city, on garbage cans, squad cars, T-shirts, skyscrapers, even thumping basketballs.
Believe. One word, printed in black and white, as if things were that clear. It began as a high-concept public relations campaign, begun by the mayor, Martin O'Malley, to tackle Baltimore's most infamous problem, drug crime. For years, the city had been at or near the top of the list of per-capita misery statistics: most murders, most addicts, most high school dropouts, most cases of H.I.V. and syphilis.
Believe was a way to address those ills, not through programs, but through commercials, banners and bumper stickers. Few cities had ever tried anything so abstract.
"It's spiritual warfare," Mr. O'Malley said.
But just as the mayor's new religion was taking off, Mr. Brooks reached for the gasoline. 
Darrell Brooks used to visit his friend Octavia Briscoe and cradle her baby in his arms. He called her the Pink Pamper.
"He was so good with kids," Ms. Briscoe said. "It was as if he was always looking for love."
Mr. Brooks, born in Baltimore on June 10, 1981, watched his family evaporate. His father walked out when he was born. His mother beat him so badly when he was 5 that she lost custody of him, according to court records. When Mr. Brooks was 12, his only brother, Jeffrey, was shot to death. Mr. Brooks then asked people to call him Jeffrey, the first of many signs of serious instability that landed him in mental institutions three times, his defense lawyers said.
By the time he was a teenager, court records showed, he was living in an East Baltimore row house with his two sisters, struggling through a special-education school, taking antidepressants and working at Fuddrucker's. He was striving to be "the man of his house," he told people.
"He was raising himself," said Trevira Jefferson, a friend.
It left him impressionable, Ms. Jefferson said, and when the older boys told Mr. Brooks to steal, he would steal. When they said fight, he would fight.
William Wells, a neighborhood coach, used to sit at the edge of a summer league basketball court, looking at Mr. Brooks's latest black eye or fat lip, and listen to his anger pound like the basketballs on the blacktop.
"He told me his mother loved her boyfriends more than she loved him," Mr. Wells said. "The boy had no structure."
At age 17, Mr. Brooks was charged with holding a BB gun to an 11-year-old's head and stealing his mountain bike. Over the next few years he was arrested several times for minor drug offenses and put on probation.
Still, people tried to help. A city councilman found Mr. Brooks a job as a page at City Hall. In a jacket and tie, Mr. Brooks adjusted microphones and filled pitchers with ice water. In May 2002, Councilman Keiffer J. Mitchell Jr. saw Mr. Brooks at a bus stop in front of City Hall. He had not shown up to work in a long time, Mr. Mitchell remembered and the playful light in his eyes had gone out.
"I keep going back to that day and can't shake the guilt," the councilman said. "Would five little kids be alive if I picked up the phone and tried to do something?"

A Mayor With a Swagger
As Mr. Brooks began to slide, Mr. O'Malley started to climb. Richard Burton, a neighborhood activist, actor and now City Hall employee, remembers the mayoral candidate forum in 1998.
It was supposed to be at North Avenue and Longwood Street, a notorious drug corner. None of the candidates showed up. Until, Mr. Burton recalled, "I saw this broad-shouldered white guy strutting up the street."
The broad-shouldered white guy turned out to be the next mayor.
In November 1999, at age 36, Mr. O'Malley was elected with 91 percent of the vote, a white candidate in a city that is 65 percent black.
The product of a Roman Catholic, Kennedy-loving clan, Mr. O'Malley was a former city councilman, prosecutor and cut-off-T-shirt-wearing guitar player. He had run a one-issue campaign: fighting crime.
Heroin had cut through the city like a famine. One out of eight Baltimore adults was a junkie. Entire city blocks had been emptied. The port, the Interstate, the city's fatigued industry and shrinking population -- in 1950, Baltimore had nearly 1 million residents, today it has 641,000 -- all played a role in the city's decline.
The killings peaked in the mid-1990's. Kurt Schmoke, then the mayor, pushed to legalize drugs. Mr. Schmoke also tried to promote literacy. He dubbed Baltimore the City That Reads. People on the street turned that into the City That Bleeds.
Mr. O'Malley came into office and took the A.A. approach. Baltimore had to admit it had a serious problem. That was Step 1.
The mayor became obsessed with crime statistics. His days started with the blurt of a fax machine and the latest overnight numbers: homicides, aggravated assaults, armed robberies.
Mr. O'Malley vowed to keep murders below 300 a year and to close 10 open-air drug markets. In his first year in office, he did both.
He hired a team of image consultants to come up with a catchy phrase to recruit police officers. John Linder, a focus group guru who helped burnish the image of New York City subways, seized upon "Believe."
"There is a religious or spiritual quality to that word," Mr. Linder said. "A certain transcendentalism."
The mayor liked the sound of Believe. Believe commercials were broadcast discouraging street crime. A Believe hot line was set up for drug addicts. A Believe machine began to crank out merchandise to scatter across the inner city like Army leaflets in a war. To date: 234,500 bumper stickers, 75,000 trash cans, 15,154 T-shirts and forests of pencils and placards and pamphlets.
Believe. Its vagueness was its power. Believe in yourself, in the city, in God.
Or, as the mayor's political rivals assert, believe in Martin O'Malley. Some accuse Mr. O'Malley of using Believe for his re-election campaign or a race for higher office.
Mr. O'Malley denies that.
"I'm not mayor of Baltimore to do something else," he said. "I'm doing this to do this."
The goal was to take back the city, corner by corner. By last October, Mr. O'Malley was gaining ground. Angela Dawson, meanwhile, was losing it.

Fighting the Dealers
Ms. Dawson lived across from Mr. Brooks on Eden Street, with her husband, Carnell, and five of their six children. On summer evenings, as Ms. Dawson stood in the kitchen with the windowopen boiling hot dogs for her children, she could hear the boys on the corner yelling out the going price of crack. It bothered her.
Mr. Brooks, according to police reports, was on that corner, a 6-foot-1-inch, 21-year-old lookout, a job usually filled by fifth graders.
He and his friends clashed with the Dawsons. Between June 26 and Oct. 16, 2002, the Dawsons called the police 35 times.
"The drug dealers are all around my house," Mr. Dawson told a dispatcher on Oct. 1. "They're trying to do something to my kids and my wife."
Two nights later, two Molotov cocktails crashed through the kitchen window. Mr. Brooks now admits he threw them.
The police urged the family to move. Ms. Dawson considered it. But the path out of East Baltimore was difficult to find.
It disappeared entirely on Oct. 16, at 2:20 a.m.
That was when Mr. Brooks, by his own admission, kicked in the Dawsons' front door, splashed a pickle jar full of gasoline on the stairs, and lighted a flame. Seven people died: Ms. Dawson, Mr. Dawson, and their children: Lawanda, Juan, Carnell Jr., Kevin and Keith.
A few hours after the fire, two Baltimore talk radio hosts implied that the disaster was the fault of "nitwit" politicians. Mr. O'Malley sped to the radio station, where he bawled out the hosts. For five minutes. On the air. And then said, "Gentlemen, if you enjoyed that, come outside after the show." 
Later, Mr. O'Malley said: "Every day I do this job I get more emotional. I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing."

Aftermath of a Fire
Mr. Brooks was arrested the day after the fire and charged with murder. Officials said he was on probation at the time, but no one was supervising him. Two probation officers were disciplined. 
Last Wednesday, Mr. Brooks, 22, pleaded guilty in federal court to arson resulting in death. He was still searching for affirmation, looking at the family of the people he had destroyed and begging for forgiveness.
"I thought I deserved nothing but death," he said in a speech before he was led away.
Mr. Brooks could have faced the death penalty. But prosecutors said his mental capacity was so impaired that he might not be eligible for it, and they agreed to a life sentence without parole. 
The case may be over, but Mayor O'Malley said he did not want any closure. He keeps a picture of the Dawson children on his desk, next to that of his own four. 
The mayor spends his days driving around in a Ford Expedition, intense, distracted, attacking the Blackberry electronic planner in his hands, plugging in the coordinates of a broken bench or drug-plagued corner.
Sometimes, he finds himself in front of the Dawson house.
"That was our Alamo," he says.
The stoops are full, the snow cones drip and another tank-top summer slides on by.
It has been more than three years since Mr. O'Malley won office, and Baltimore now leads the nation's biggest cities in reduction of serious crime, with a 26 percent decrease since 1999. The city has also doubled spending on drug treatment since then, to $62 million from $29 million.
Believe might go national. Organizations from Los Angeles to Atlanta have been asking about it.
But Mr. Brooks did lasting damage to the campaign. On a recent afternoon, Marjorie Collins, an unemployed housekeeper, creaked back in a rusty chair in front of her row house apartment, a few blocks from the gutted Dawson home, and said: "You can try to do something about the drug dealers. But you better have Fort Knox behind you."
Her block has one home occupied, seven abandoned. Instead of neighbors standing in the nearby doorways, there are stacks of bricks to keep people out.
Across the street, balloons mark the spot where a girl was recently killed in a car accident with a police officer. She was about to go to college.
"Believe?" Ms. Collins said, when asked about the Believe campaign. "Believe in what?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: A sticker from the "Believe" crime-fighting campaign marks a Baltimore house that was burned by an arsonist, killing seven. (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Darrell Brooks pleaded guilty to arson resulting in death and received a life sentence. (Photo by Baltimore City Police); Mayor Martin O'Malley of Baltimore arrived at a news conference last October after an arsonist killed the seven members of the Dawson family. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); MURDER (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (71%); LAWYERS (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); BASKETBALL (68%); RELIGION (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



38 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: For Many Voters in Iowa, the Field of Democratic Hopefuls Is Just a Blur 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: MARSHALLTOWN, Iowa, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
The rib-eyes sizzled on the grill, and Mark Ohrt fumed.
 The Democratic Party, Mr. Ohrt said, has lost its way. Not enough empathy for the farmer and workers. Adrift from "family values." 
 And with the first voting in the presidential race less than four months away, Mr. Ohrt is not certain where to turn. 
"There are too many candidates out there," he said, grilling steaks at a softball tournament in this small city a 45-minute drive northeast of Des Moines. "I wait till they get weeded out. Everybody who thinks about running is running. And whether they're saying what we want to hear or whether they're saying what they mean, heck, I don't know, either."
All the talk is hard to sort out, Mr. Ohrt and other voters said in conversations over the weekend here and in Indianola, Oskaloosa, Ames and other towns in this state in which the Jan. 19 caucuses are the first step in the nominating process. Not one of the nine Democratic hopefuls seems like a runaway hit, voters said, even though most hopefuls have been campaigning here for months.
Iowans say they like to keep a studied detachment before opinions harden with the cornfields in winter. Few bumper stickers or lawn signs can be found. Two hopefuls have broadcast commercials, but it is difficult to find anyone who has seen them.
"At this point, we like to listen," said Clay Benton, a grocery store clerk taking in a college football game. "We are like a jury."
Even some people who closely follow the campaigns have had troubledistinguishing the candidates. 
"It's pretty homogenous" Mick Stohr, a consultant who is active in the Democratic Party here, said. "The top six seem pretty similar."
Mr. Stohr said he leaned to Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, but struggled to explain why, in part chalking up his leaning to having met Mr. Edwards. 
"It's a presence," Mr. Stohr said. "I guess it comes down to intangibles. I don't know. His tone, as opposed to what he was saying."
But as they begin focusing more on the candidates, Iowans say the war in Iraq and, even more so, the economy weigh heavily, especially with a drought wilting corn and soy and making things tougher for farmers. 
For Rhonda Schwarzkopf, the men she lumps together as "the Southern candidates" -- Mr. Edwards, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and Senator Bob Graham of Florida -- might be a draw because "they care a lot about agriculture." 
But Mrs. Schwarzkopf hastened to add, "They are more geared to Southern crops than corn and beans."
"My father is small family farmer with 160 acres," she said. "The insurance premiums he has to pay are incredible, because he is self-employed."
Mrs. Schwarzkopf said she found the Democratic field "all pretty equal right now."
"It's kind of scary none of them are way out in front," she said. "After Hillary Clinton's book came out, people said they would rather vote for her than the candidates who are actually running. To me, that's a scary thought."
Suffice to say, Mrs. Schwarzkopf is not a fan of Mrs. Clinton. But with or without Mrs. Clinton, who has said she does not plan to join the field, Mrs. Schwarzkopf and her husband, Dan, said they believed that Democrats had a shot at unseating President Bush because of the economy and the war.
"It's time to do something," Mr. Schwarzkopf said about Iraq. "We can't let these poor guys get killed over there by these nuts with a gun in their hand. Of course, I don't know what the answer is. You don't know who to trust."
Iraq has also fed up Charles Graves, the owner of a garage in Chariton who finds the candidates falling short on addressing it.
"Our highways are falling apart," Mr. Graves said over breakfast at the Country Kitchen in Indianola. "And we're spending billions of dollars overseas." 
Howard Dean, he said, has some appeal because of his stance against a war that Mr. Graves finds too costly. But Mr. Graves said he did not believe that he had heard enough about Dr. Dean's economic plans to back him just yet.
"For me," he said, "it's the economy, period." 
Some people who have picked their candidate find their decision muddied by the polls that show candidates gaining and dropping.
Don Ferguson initially had his eye on Mr. Gephardt, whose farm-friendly speeches played well earlier this year. But as Mr. Gephardt failed to surge, Mr. Ferguson found himself drifting to Mr. Edwards, who, he said, "comes across, well, sincere."
"But I don't think he stands a chance," Mr. Ferguson added.
Several people noted that Mr. Bush remained relatively popular.
"The other day, Kerry said he would not roll back all of Bush's tax cuts," said Shelby Moore of Ames, who likes Mr. Kerry. "And I understand a few of the other candidates would roll them all back. That seems sensible. But it just seems Bush will probably win anyway. He has a way of speaking to people. Kerry is -- let me be gentle -- Kerry is not someone that is exciting my neighbors." 
Mr. Ohrt, a Democrat, said he too did not find a candidate galvanizing members of his party. For him, Dr. Dean seems a possibility. But Mr. Ohrt added that he would find it difficult to support him, because Dr. Dean, as governor of Vermont, signed into law a measure to let gays enter into civil unions. That is a step that Mr. Ohrt sees as a prelude to gay marriage.
"I believe in to each his own," he said. "But gay marriage, that's just wrong. To me, the Democrats are shooting themselves in the foot going against family values." 
Mr. Ohrt has a small cattle farm and works in an appliance factory. 
"You don't find many candidates who go with farm issues and factory workers," he said.
Asked his plans come November 2004, Mr. Ohrt stepped back from the grill and thought for nearly a minute.
"It's a possibility," he said finally, "I'll vote for Bush."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rhonda Schwarzkopf -- It's "scary none of them are way out in front."; Charles Graves -- "For me, it's the economy, period."; Don Ferguson --John Edwards "comes across, well, sincere." (Photographs by Steve Pope for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FAMILY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); SOFTBALL (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (89%); DONNA F EDWARDS (79%); CHET EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



39 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Iraq Council Picks Cabinet To Run Key State Affairs
The Iraqi Governing Council named a 25-member cabinet to begin taking over day-to-day control of the government in an important first step in the effort to transfer authority to the Iraqis from the Americans. Yet even as the process began, council members complained that the Americans were failing to protect them. A1

A new series of major raids in northern Iraq against supporters of Saddam Hussein's government is the first wide-scale use of a revamped American strategy in which troops carry out more precise attacks instead of broad sweeps, commanders say. A11

U.S. Seen as 'Problem'
Wang Yi, China's chief delegate at the recent six-party talks on North Korea's nuclear program, said the United States was the "main problem" in reaching a diplomatic solution to the crisis. A3

Mea Culpa by Mexico President
In his state of the union address, an uncharacteristically self-critical President Vicente Fox said he had not delivered the "historic transformations our times demand." A8

Israeli Panel Criticizes Police
An Israeli commission of inquiry, finding a pattern of government "prejudice and neglect" toward Israel's Arab minority, accused the police of using excessive force three years ago to combat riots. A9

Helicopter gunships fired four missiles at a car in heavy traffic in Gaza City, killing at least one member of Hamas and wounding 15 other people. Israeli officials are threatening an invasion of the Gaza Strip if Hamas continues to fire rockets into Israel. A9

4 Charged in Bombay Bombings
Prosecutors in Bombay charged a married couple, their daughter and a second man with carrying out the two car bombings in Bombay on Aug. 25 that killed 52 people, Indian news organizations reported. A9

Libya Increases Payments
France said Libya and the families of 170 people killed in the terrorist attack on a French airliner in 1989 had reached a tentative compensation agreement. A8

NATIONAL A14-21

Iraq Could Overshadow Congress's Domestic Plans
Congress returns to an ambitious domestic agenda, including prescription drugs and energy, but Iraq is likely to overshadow the discussion as lawmakers, including some influential Republicans, demand a clear accounting from President Bush of how he plans to bring stability to the region. A1

Slogan Collides With Reality
A penitent man pleaded guilty to arson in a case that called into the question the efficacy of a sweeping anticrime campaign in Baltimore, the crux of which is a one-word slogan: "Believe." A1

Testing, Testing, Testing
Educators and experts on testing warn that the new emphasis on test results is pushing the limits of the testing industry's ability to provide fair and accurate tests. A1

Bush Defends Tax Cut
President Bush promoted his tax cut while speaking to a group of highway workers in Ohio. He told the crowd that it had prevented the economic downturn from getting worse. A1

An Awkward Party of Two
A near crossing of the paths of Gov. Gray Davis and Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante served as an awkward reminder of the difficulty facing Democrats in the California recall election. A14

In Seattle, Taxing Espresso
A plan to impose a 10-cent tax on espresso to raise money for day care and pre-kindergarten programs for low-income children, goes before voters this month. A14

Power Grid Staff Overloaded
Many of the workers responsible for keeping the country's strained power grid humming say the human side of the system is just as overloaded and vulnerable to breakdowns. A16

Surfing With the Sharks
White sharks, long feared as the sea's fiercest predator, appear to have found a home just off California's San Onofre State Beach, a popular spot for surfers. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

New York Police Resist Videotaping Interrogations
More and more police departments are taping interrogations, in part because of increased attention to wrongful convictions nationwide, research has shown. Even though it is an idea that is quickly gaining acceptance elsewhere, the country's largest police department, New York City's, has so far resisted. B1

Viral Outbreak Shortens Cruise
A virus outbreak sickened passengers and crew on a North Atlantic cruise somewhere between the North Sea and the fjords of Iceland, prompting the cruise line to cut short the voyage by two days and immediately head toward New York. B1

Carnival Ends With Violence
The fatal shooting of a man trying to climb aboard a float at the West Indian American Day and Parade in Brooklyn marred what was otherwise a celebratory event, police said. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B8

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES C10-11

ARTS E1-8

Shakespeare's Co-Authors
In matters of Shakespeare authorship, it is often said that nothing is ever resolved. But in a recent book Brian Vickers, director of Renaissance Studies at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, has brought clarity to the hotly debated question of Shakespeare's work with co-authors. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

China Plans Policy Changes
China is preparing to reduce incentives for exporters, increase purchases of Treasury bonds and loosen controls on foreign currency holdings to relieve U.S. anxiety over its growing trade surplus. A1

Treasury Secretary in Japan
In Tokyo on his first stop on a trip to Japan and China, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow took veiled aim at the artificially weakened yen and yuan, praising "flexibility" for currencies six times in one speech. C1

A Tricky Road to the E.U.
When Hungary joins the European Union in May, it will have to phase out tax breaks to foreign investors. The city of Gyor must now convince Audi to keep an auto assembly plant there without those breaks. C1

Savings on New Contract
By renegotiating the contract of its top executive, Richard A. Grasso, the New York Stock Exchange will save as much as $3.5 million this year, a member of the exchange's board said. C1

Vivendi Nears Merger Choice
While Vivendi Universal may pick a merger partner for its entertainment assets today, it will hardly be a done deal. Vivendi plans to accept a preliminary agreement, the equivalent of a mere handshake. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Backward on energy; birth control in Russia; the rewards of regulation; deficit? what deficit?

Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); HAMAS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); RIOTS (66%); MARRIAGE (63%); ARSON (63%); TAX LAW (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (93%) IRAQ (96%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



40 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Bush Defends Tax Cuts and Announces Jobs Post 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: RICHFIELD, Ohio, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Since the last time President Bush addressed a Labor Day picnic -- with carpenters in Pennsylvania -- the economy has lost 700,000 jobs, most of them in manufacturing.
 So by the time Mr. Bush arrived at a rain-drenched field today to talk to highway construction workers, he faced what some of his supporters acknowledge is a far more complex political task than he did a year ago: convincing layoff-weary voters in crucial states like this one, which he carried by a mere three percentage points in 2000, that his tax cuts had saved workers from a worse fate and that 14 months before the next presidential election he has a strategy to bring back the kind of jobs that many economists say are leaving the United States for good. 
 "Things are getting better," Mr. Bush told a subdued crowd here. 
Orders for goods are coming back to the country's factories, the president said, and productivity is on the rise -- though he acknowledged that was one reason jobs were disappearing. "The economy is beginning to grow," he said, "and that's what I'm interested in. I believe there are better days ahead."
Skipping past all his talk during the last campaign and since then about reducing government regulation, he promised reliability rules for electric power companies and continued crackdowns on corporate executives who cheat the system.
Mr. Bush again promoted his tax cuts, telling the crowd that they prevented the economic downturn, which the administration says it inherited, from getting worse. "They tell me it was a shallow recession," he said. "It was a shallow recession because of the tax relief. Some say, well, maybe the recession should have been deeper. That bothers me when people say that."
Mr. Bush's only new announcement today, the traditional start of campaign season in election years, was the creation of an assistant secretary of commerce for manufacturing, a step clearly intended to reinforce his commitment to bringing back blue-collar jobs. 
Yet the creation of the position is the kind of action that Republicans, when they were out of office, used to criticize. 
In the 1990's, Republican leaders in Congress claimed that the United States was veering dangerously close to Japanese-style industrial policy, and many urged the elimination of the Commerce Department. But Mr. Bush said that in creating the post, he would address head-on the loss of what he said were "thousands of manufacturing jobs" in recent years. 
In fact, around 3 million jobs have been lost since Mr. Bush took office, about 2.5 million of them in manufacturing.
Mr. Bush never explicitly mentioned China, but when he said much of the job loss was "because production moved overseas," he appeared to be referring to China and other low-cost countries.
China has emerged in this campaign in essentially the same role that Japan played when the first President Bush entered his ill-fated re-election campaign in 1992: the country that Democrats said was eating the lunch of working Americans, while the president did little.
Mr. Bush's Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, is in Asia this week trying to persuade the Chinese to let their currency appreciate against the dollar, after American manufacturers have complained that the administration allowed the Chinese to keep their currency artificially cheap, giving Chinese businesses a huge advantage against American goods.
Mr. Bush did not say what the duties of the new assistant secretary would be other than to focus "on the needs of manufacturers," nor did he say when he intended to nominate one.
In past administrations -- including that of the first President Bush -- the Commerce Department chiefly rallied to the aid of manufacturers by helping promote their goods and services abroad. President Bill Clinton's Commerce Department focused particularly on exports to emerging markets, including the Philippines and Thailand, where Mr. Bush is scheduled to travel next month. 
His commitment to bring back manufacturing jobs came despite several recent statements by the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, that many of those jobs are most likely gone for good as the United States turns more into a producer of ideas, and less a manufacturer of goods. Instead, Mr. Bush today told the operators of backhoes and bulldozers, "I understand for a full recovery, to make sure people can find work, that manufacturing must do better."
Mr. Bush spoke to members of the International Union of Operating Engineers, whose president, Frank Hanley, is the type of union leader that Karl Rove, the president's political strategist, has been trying to cultivate. The union, with 400,000 members, still heavily supports Democratic candidates, but has begun donating to some Republicans. Like the carpenters' union that Mr. Bush addressed last Labor Day, its members seem impressed by Mr. Bush's efforts at fighting terrorism, even if they are yet to be convinced about his economic policies.
"He seems all right," said Max Farley of Logan, Ohio, as he tried to shield his 3-year-old triplets from the rain while they awaited the president's arrival. "We're in a wartime situation, and he understands that."
But Mr. Farley also said that "we're still too lax at our borders," and that he had reserved his opinion about whether the president had a workable domestic economic strategy.
In fact, members of the statewide construction union like Mr. Farley, interviewed on the edges of the union picnic, said they had plenty of work for now, mostly on highway projects. (Mr. Bush talked about how much more he was spending on building highways, and skipped the usual part of his standard speech about reining in spending.) But a few of those interviewed sounded skeptical about Mr. Bush's embrace of free trade.
Mr. Bush's political aides say that Democrats head into perilous territory if they back off from Mr. Clinton's embrace of free trade, which was a wrenching change for the Democratic Party in the 1990's. "If they walk away from where Clinton was taking them on trade, they will be making a big mistake with much of their own constituency," one of Mr. Bush's cabinet members said recently. "That debate is largely over in America." 
But the nation's trade deficit, which is running at a record annual rate just shy of $500 billion this year, could prove a potent issue if the Democratic candidates find an effective way to put the blame on Mr. Bush.
Fresh from Congressional approval of new free-trade accords with Singapore and Chile, Mr. Bush said today that he would enforce trade rules in ways that would protect American workers. 
"See, we in America believe we can compete with anybody, just so long as the rules are fair, and we intend to keep the rules fair," he said to cheers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (57%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



41 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Pechiney Again Rejects Takeover Offer From Alcan
Pechiney, the French aluminum and packaging group, has rebuffed a second takeover offer from Alcan of Canada, but has left the door open for Alcan to raise its bid again.
 Alcan, based in Montreal, valued its latest offer at 47 to 48 euros ($51.68 to $52.78) in stock and cash for each Pechiney share, a total of 4 billion euros ($4.4 billion). Alcan made its first, unsolicited bid for Pechiney on July 7 with an offer of 41 euros a share. C4. 

France Telecom Makes Orange Bid
France Telecom, which has been struggling to bolster its flagging finances, will issue stock to raise fresh capital that it will use to acquire the 13.7 percent stake of the cellphone provider Orange that it does not yet own. The deal is worth as much as $7.7 billion. C4.

Swiss Candy Maker to Buy Brach's
In seeking to expand into the world's largest confectionary market, the Swiss maker of bulk chocolate, Barry Callebaut, said that it would buy the struggling candy maker Brach's Confections for a symbolic $1 and an agreement to assume $16 million of debt. C4.

Blackout in Britain Raises Issues
A power disruption in Britain last week left two-fifths of London in darkness and shut down the subway system during rush hour. Although the blackout lasted less than an hour, it tempered thoughts that the British power system, which uses one company, National Grid Transco, to transmit power, would serve as a guide for the United States to rebuild its strained transmission network. C4.

Stocks in Asia Rally to New Highs
Asian stocks rallied, sending benchmark indexes in Japan and South Korea to 14-month highs. The gains came after a government report Friday showing that consumers were spending more in the United States, the world's largest economy. C8.

PETA Drops Lawsuit Against KFC
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals said that it was dropping a lawsuit against the KFC Corporation that was part of the group's seven-month boycott to improve the way chickens are raised and slaughtered. A19.

Home Builder Buys Wilson Connolly
Taylor Woodrow, a British home builder, agreed to buy Wilson Connolly Holdings for $:480 million ($758 million) in cash and stock to become the country's second-biggest provider of new houses. Taylor will pay the equivalent of 230 pence for each Wilson share, 10.3 percent more than Friday's close, and assume $:220 million in debt. C8.

Can Magazine Industry Keep Pace?
The magazine industry is striving to build upon some advertising results this month with hopes of producing some momentum for next year. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

That's a Whole Lot of Takeoffs
Frequent-flying readers are hooting at million-mile-a-year claims made by some business travelers. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C6.

U.S. Markets Will Reopen Today
The stock market and other financial markets in the United States were closed yesterday in observance of Labor Day. The overseas markets were open. The markets in the United States will reopen today.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Optimism Among Workers"There are now more than nine million unemployed workers, but the number of people re-entering the labor force after being out of it for at least five years has surged. That suggests that people are feeling more optimistic about the job market, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. He cautioned that the labor market was likely to remain weak in the near future, despite the recent improvement of the economy, because hiring often lags overall economic recovery. Graph tracks workers re-entering the job market from 1993-2003. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (92%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); EURO (90%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (84%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (73%); CONFECTIONERY (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (95%); RIO TINTO ALCAN INC (92%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (83%); KFC CORP (81%); FARLEY'S & SATHERS CANDY CO INC (56%); WILSON CONNOLLY HOLDINGS PLC (52%); TAYLOR WIMPEY PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (95%); FTE (NYSE) (95%); FTE (BIT) (95%); NGG (NYSE) (83%); NG (LSE) (83%); TW (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (92%); NAICS331315 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3353 ALUMINUM SHEET, PLATE & FOIL (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (83%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (81%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (81%); NAICS311340 NONCHOCOLATE CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (56%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (52%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) QUEBEC, CANADA (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); CANADA (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2003 



42 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: RESTAURANTS; 
A Gentle Spin for a New American Bistro

BYLINE:  By William Grimes

 BODY:
WHEN a hot economy cools off, the temperature drop can be beneficial. The frantic restaurant culture of the day before yesterday encouraged mad dreams. Competent but unremarkable chefs, some of them still in their mid-20's, dreamed of superstardom. Investors with too much cash on hand stood ready to back them. Manhattan was engulfed by a wave of pretension, as restaurants intended by nature to be bistros or cafes decided that they were three-star temples of avant-garde cuisine. The bubble has burst, and in many cases diners can actually be grateful. There's only so much genius to go around.
 Sage provides a case study in the new realities. Two years ago, it opened under the name TanDa, with an ambitious fusion menu and obvious intentions of becoming the next AZ. It was not a bad restaurant. It was sincere. But it was a deeply unsatisfying restaurant whose reach exceeded its grasp. After a period of soul-searching, and reorganization, TanDa has re-emerged as Sage, a New American bistro, and it feels like a much happier place. The food is simpler, and the prices are lower. As a result, diners are more likely to feel that they're getting value for money. Sage is aiming a lot lower, but it's hitting the target. 
 The new chef, Egardo Ortiz, has a knack for putting a gentle spin on classic bistro food, and getting good use out of inexpensive ingredients. The crab should be his totem. He deserves gratitude for his lunchtime crab cake, pan-seared and, to my eye, initially an object of suspicion. It looked too blond and too flat. The interior was made up of fine strands of meat rather than juicy lumps. No matter. The texture is firm and the crab meat sweetly flavorful. A creamy lime and chipotle aioli does the rest. The dinnertime counterpart is a lump-meat crab cake with a sweet-pea and sage sauce, green and fresh. And the crab triumphs yet again in a summertime soup of tart yellow tomatoes with pistachios and summer peas. A whiff of oregano supports the restaurant's herb theme.
Mr. Ortiz, who served as executive chef at Alison on Dominick for several years, does not always hit the equivalent of this crab trifecta. Ungainly and totally unnecessary chunks of sauteed beef weigh down an otherwise lovely house salad of baby spinach with crisp pancetta and avocado. A thickly breaded goat-cheese beignet squats atop an inviting tangle of frisee and watercress like a sumo wrestler. When pierced by a fork, the beignet, like vegetarian chicken Kiev, spurts a stream of molten cheese halfway across the table. Candied walnuts and raisins add too much sugar to the equation.
By and large, though, Mr. Ortiz does just fine. In some ways, the signature dish could be the grilled tuna, an almost lethally boring fish that the chef coaxes into life with minimum effort. The fish is served in rare slices, with a salsa of sweet corn and mango, and a slick of cilantro pesto on the side. Nothing remarkable here. But top-quality fresh ingredients and perfect harmony between the salsa and cilantro pesto combine to make the whole more than the sum of its parts. Mr. Ortiz does the same trick with tuna tartare, which he enlivens by infusing sesame oil with jalapeno and working in pine nuts and a touch of mint.
Good shopping at the greenmarket can be seen all over the menu, especially in a robust entree of grilled pork loin and braised fresh bacon (otherwise known as pork belly) with meaty cranberry beans, kale and fava beans. Caramelized black cod (otherwise known as sable and not exactly the fish you'd expect to see) does not get the kind of sweet, weighty sauce that seems to be standard for this oily fish. It comes instead with a fruity blood-orange sauce and lightly sauteed bok choy. Onions in a sweet-sour escabeche act like a condiment when paired with a gently poached striped bass, each pickled string good for an electric pulse of flavor. Nectarines add an opulent, seasonal sweetness to honey-glazed duck breast sprinkled with toasted almonds and served with roasted baby beets.
Sage comes up short on desserts. Pound cake with roasted peaches and vanilla ice cream leads the list. Plain and perfect, it's the right dessert in the right place. There should be more of them. A good cheesecake on graham cracker crust is ill-served by an intrusively, annoyingly spiced Bing-cherry compote, and the miniature ice cream sandwich, which sounds tantalizing, turns out to be a scoop of vanilla ice cream wedged loosely between two thick, oily chocolate chip cookies.
On the plus side, there's Mr. Ortiz's braised pork sandwich, a lunchtime miracle. It comes in a pillowlike round roll. The pork, laid on thick with chunks of buttery avocado, is smeared with spicy pepper sauce and a smooth layer of tangy cornichon aioli. A hamburger garnish of lettuce and tomato completes the sandwich. This is heaven on a bun. It's not too fancy and it is $12. That's the whole idea at Sage, which proves that you can sometimes do a lot better by settling for less.

Sage
*
rating: one star
331 Park Avenue South (24th Street); (212) 253-8400.
ATMOSPHERE -- New American bistro fare served in a casual, clubby dining room with dark wood paneling and work by young artists on the walls.
SOUND LEVEL -- Medium.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Crab cake with lime-chipotle aioli; grilled tuna with corn-mango salsa; braised pork sandwich; honey glazed duck breast with nectarines; caramelized black cod with blood orange sauce; striped bass with escabeche onions; pound cake with roasted peaches.
SERVICE -- Attentive, but kitchen can be slow.
WINE LIST -- A more than adequate bistro list of about 85 wines, with about a dozen wines by the glass.
HOURS -- Monday through Friday, noon to 11 p.m. Saturday 5 p.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICE RANGE -- Lunch, appetizers, $7 to $15; entrees, $13 to $19; desserts, $5 to $8; three-course prix fixe, $23. Dinner, appetizers, $7 to $14; entrees, $11 to $26; desserts, $5 to $8.
CREDIT CARDS -- All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Restrooms on dining level.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN:

(None)Poor to satisfactory
*Good
**Very good
***Excellent
****Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

PAST REVIEWS from The Times, with additional capsule reviews by Times critics: nytimes.com/dining

GRAPHIC: Photo: FINDING ITS NICHE -- Sage, on Park Avenue South, serves casual fare in a wood-paneled, art-filled dining room. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (77%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%) Restaurants; Reviews

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Sage (NYC Restaurant)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: William Grimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



43 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Dog Ate Your Homework? Fall on Your Bread Knife 

BYLINE:  By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
LAST October, when Robert Stalzer lost his job as an equities trader for Goldman Sachs in Zurich, he decided to enroll in the Institute of Culinary Education in New York. "I did not want another banking job," said Mr. Stalzer, a 34-year-old Hofstra graduate. "Living in Europe I learned a lot about food, and I had my mother fax me some recipes and I did some cooking." The experience hooked him. He wants to return to Switzerland as a chef.
 Starting down the road to that position will cost Mr. Stalzer $20,000 for an 11-month course. And he said that when he does embark on his career, he will be concerned about finances. "Going from a Goldman Sachs salary to a restaurant salary is like night and day," he said. "This field is nerve-racking but exciting, with everyone striving to be the best." 
 Mr. Stalzer is fairly typical of today's culinary students. Over the past decade, but especially since 2001, enrollment at schools with professional culinary programs has jumped 20 percent, 50 percent, sometimes 100 percent. A high proportion of students, often in their mid-30's, are coming from careers in finance, law, the broadcast media, information technology, sales, even the military. 
The increases are in part a result of the changing economy, with laid-off white-collar and professional workers like Mr. Stalzer gravitating to the kitchen. Other students are looking for a career that inspires them, especially after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when many people stepped back to re-evaluate their lives.
"The people who are enrolling may or may not be out of work, but whatever they were doing was not satisfying enough, so they wanted a change," said Jennifer Schmidt, the marketing director for the California Culinary Academy in San Francisco, where enrollment has doubled in two years, to about 1,500 students.
Laura Goldrich, another student at the Institute of Culinary Education in New York, decided at 38 to quit her job as vice president for human resources at MTV. "It wasn't my passion," she said. She now plans a career in baking, perhaps running cooking classes for children.
"Food has become an accepted career," said Rick Smilow, the president of the Institute of Culinary Education, which is adding 10,000 square feet to its teaching kitchens on West 23rd Street. "High-profile television chefs have glamorized the field. American chefs have gained in stature and prestige."
To accommodate the rush of applicants, schools are hurrying to expand. Some are opening campuses in other cities. One of them, the Johnson & Wales culinary school in Providence, R.I., with several satellite campuses in other cities, is opening more, including one in Charlotte, N.C. Its enrollment has doubled in 10 years and is now 5,600. During that time, the number of women has tripled at the school, where they now account for 42 percent of the students.
Most schools operate year round, admitting students every six weeks or so. Many accept applicants with only a high school diploma, but some also require a year or more of work experience, though not necessarily in cooking.
Usually the schools have three divisions -- culinary skills, baking and pastry, and management -- and many students combine programs. A course can run six months to four years, with tuition of $10,000 to $60,000. (Financial aid is often available.)
The job-placement record for cooking schools has also added to the rise in enrollment: most say that at least 90 percent of graduates get positions after being offered an average of three jobs. The schools say there is plenty of work even in San Francisco, where the restaurant industry is still struggling in the aftermath of Sept. 11 and the collapse of Silicon Valley.
These days, the opportunities for graduates have increased. Many will work in the kitchens of restaurants like Daniel in New York and Spago in Beverly Hills, but now there are jobs as diverse as cake decorating, recipe and product development for food companies, food styling and being a personal chef.
The Personal Chef Institute, which was founded in 1991 and now has training centers in Atlanta, Phoenix and Cherry Hill, N.J., has had a tenfold increase in students since 1995. "Being a personal chef was not a career 15 years ago," said David MacKay, the executive director. "It was moonlighting. But to be good at it today you need special skills" -- how to deal with special diets, for instance.
Mr. MacKay said that jobs for personal chefs go beyond working for a billionaire or on a 100-foot yacht for hire. In some cities, personal chefs have established their own companies, like maid services, cooking daily or weekly for multiple clients.
"Food service is the largest private employer in the nation, second only to the federal government," said Tim Ryan, the president of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y. "The industry is expected to grow another 3 to 5 percent over the next few years."
In addition to offering traditional hands-on training in cooking or baking, many schools are adding four-year degree programs and restaurant management divisions. At the Culinary Institute of America, the biggest increases in enrollment have been in the four-year bachelor's program.
"It's no longer just about learning French food, like when I went to school," Mr. Ryan said. "You need preparation in environmental, marketing, language, management and legal issues."
Drew Nieporent, a graduate of the school of hotel administration at Cornell, said he was a big believer in formal culinary education. "The school of hard knocks teaches you a lot, but the schools teach more, like managing, ordering, sanitation," he said. "I've hired many people with formal training."
Nat Rubin, a Yale graduate with an M.B.A. from New York University who worked in marketing, has an idea for a restaurant and is now taking a management course at the Institute of Culinary Education. "I wasn't unhappy in my job, but I have a concept, I decided to take the risk and I needed more background," he said.
The California Culinary Academy has even added a course in casino management. And the culinary arts division of the Art Institute of New York City, formerly the New York Restaurant School, has added one that addresses social, political and economic issues relating to food, including the study of farming practices, global food distribution and health.
A few universities also offer noncooking bachelor's degrees and even graduate programs in gastronomy. Increasingly, prestigious schools are letting students pursue food studies in disciplines like history, psychology, religion, anthropology and archaeology. In January, Smith College in Northampton, Mass., held an alumni food symposium in Tucson, with professors of literature and anthropology among the panelists.
Boston University, which has offered a bachelor's degree in food studies since 1991, is developing a doctorate in food history. And in Italy next year, the new University of the Science of Gastronomy is to open, with campuses in Piedmont and near Parma. Oxford University has sponsored scholarly food symposiums run by Alan Davidson for years.
"There has been a huge change," said Dr. Marion Nestle, the chairwoman of the nutrition and food studies department at New York University, where students have been able to take undergraduate degrees in food studies since 1994. "In the past, food was not thought to be serious."
For some, working in a restaurant is still a blue-collar job and a foot in the career door, especially for immigrants willing to be dishwashers or busboys. But at the upper end, the food field has become highly professional.
Does that mean that a degree on the wall is as important as a long resume?
Mr. Smilow of the Institute of Culinary Education thinks so. "It is difficult to get a job in a big-city starred restaurant without formal culinary training," he said. And Jean-Georges Vongerichten, whose son, Cedric, is about to enroll in the Culinary Institute of America, agreed. "It means a lot," he said. A degree from a cooking school sometimes allows a job applicant to start at a higher level, he said, adding that it provides excellent management training.
But not all chefs agree. Tom Valenti, an owner of Ouest on the Upper West Side and the new 'Cesca, opening there next week, said that natural ability and energy are sometimes more important. And Daniel Boulud said a recommendation from a good chef often carries more weight than culinary school credentials.
"It's the last thing we look at," said Thomas Keller, the chef and owner of the French Laundry in Yountville, Calif. "Attitude is No. 1." Still, he said, close to half his staff members have gone to professional cooking schools. "If I was just starting out now," he said, "I'd probably go to culinary school."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Wednesday about increased enrollment at professional cooking schools omitted part of one school name. It is the United States Personal Chef Institute, not the Personal Chef Institute.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE TEST -- Ted Siegel, left, an instructor at the Institute of Culinary Education on West 23rd Street in New York, assesses the work of students who pay $20,000 for an 11-month course on becoming a professional chef. (Photo by Christopher Smith for The New York Times)(pg. F1); TAKING NOTES -- Enrollment is up at the California Culinary Academy, above, in San Francisco. Left, at the French Culinary Institute in New York, students dig into a dessert. Right, tasting a chicken curry at the Institute of Culinary Education in New York. (Photos by Left and above, Christopher Smith for The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULINARY SCHOOLS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Vocational Training

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); CALIFORNIA CULINARY ACADEMY LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute of Culinary Education

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: Florence Fabricant

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); ZURICH (88%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (91%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



44 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Nice War. Here's the Bill. 

BYLINE:  By Donald Hepburn; Donald Hepburn, former chief executive of the Bahrain Petroleum Company, is an adviser to the Middle East Policy Council.

DATELINE: TAPPAN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
In 1991, America's so-called Operation Tin Cup got enough money from its allies to cover the costs of the first Persian Gulf war. In contrast, what could be called "Operation Begging Bowl" after the latest war in Iraq has come up empty, leaving us stuck with the bill for the invasion and occupation -- the full extent of which is only now becoming apparent. 
 The Bush administration's recent willingness to consider a greater United Nations role on the ground is the first sign that it is aware of how vastly mistaken its assertions about the occupation were. Contrary to the prewar view that Iraq's oil revenues would greatly offset American costs, we now know that Iraq -- with its shattered economy, devastated oil industry and plundered national wealth -- is incapable of making any significant reimbursement of the invasion and occupation costs. And the military expense is only a fraction of the total expense of making Iraq into a functioning country. 
 So, how much is this experiment in nation-building going to cost the American taxpayer? First, let's consider what has already been spent. According to the Pentagon, the cost of preparation, aid to noncombatant allies and the invasion itself amounted to $45 billion. Then there is the much-bandied "billion dollars a week" phrase, which seems an accurate estimate of military expenses since the end of serious fighting in May. Assuming a five-year occupation, that's some $300 billion.
But these familiar figures are only part of the story. First, as these are borrowed funds, they are already incurring interest charges. More important, according to material released by American officials, the United States must meet an estimated $5 billion in initial humanitarian aid and $8 billion in Iraqi government salaries, as well as about $7 billion for repairs to public utilities and to restore vital services over the next two years. 
In addition, Iraq is buried under a mountain of foreign debt -- roughly $350 billion. This consists of $90 billion in conventional foreign debt (mostly for arms purchases from Russia, China, France and Germany), $60 billion in pending contracts, and war reparations of $200 billion for Iraq's 1990 invasion of Kuwait. It is anticipated that, through the Paris Club system, the commercial debt may be reduced and repayment will be deferred until Iraq's economy can get back on its feet. It is also possible that the United Nations' Kuwait claims commission will find a way to reduce the war reparations burden. But even so, these debts will have to be paid off eventually.
It will also most likely cost $3 billion to re-settle nearly one million Iraqi refugees who are returning from exile (there are also an estimated 1.5 million Iraqis who were displaced within the country and will need aid to rebuild their communities). Ordinarily, assistance could be expected to come through United Nations and nongovernmental groups, but in this case the diplomatic difficulties surrounding the invasion leave the situation unsettled. 
Still, the biggest problem facing Iraq is that after decades of corruption, economic stagnation and declining productivity, it faces at least a decade'sworth of reconstruction and improvements. This will include rebuilding ports, farms, roads, telecommunications systems, power plants, hospitals and water systems, as well as introducing a medical benefit plan, a national pension scheme, and new laws for foreign investment and intellectual property rights. The country needs a revised criminal code and judiciary system, a new tax code and collection system, and an electoral voting system with appropriate technology. Using postwar American and United Nations estimates for these and many other tasks, the total bill is likely to be at least $200 billion over a decade.
Clearly, such a program cannot be financed entirely by Iraq's oil reserves. Those who accused the Bush administration of instigating a "war for oil" certainly hadn't done the math. Before the war the hope was that Iraq's annual production could relatively quickly rise to $15 billion to $20 billion per year. However, the system is far more decrepit than such estimates assumed, and combined with the near-daily sabotage of facilities and pipelines, it appears that oil revenues will rise only slowly over the next three years, from approximately $10 billion in 2004 to $20 billion in 2006. 
Major international oil companies are expected to invest $40 billion in joint ventures with Iraq's state oil company, but this will be for exploration and new development, not to rehabilitate the existing facilities. By 2010, even in the best case, production would increase at most to six million barrels a day, bringing total revenues to about $40 billion a year. 
Obviously, America cannot make up the difference on its own. Iraq will need long-term loans from the World Bank, the United Nations Iraq Development Fund, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Arab Development Fund, the European Union Aid Program and others. Yet few of these organizations will be keen to make loans until Iraq has a new constitution and an elected government that has put in place effective legal, arbitration, banking and fiscal systems.
Let's face it, rebuilding Iraq is going to be far more expensive than Americans have been led to believe. Just as it seems inevitable that concessions must be made to get other countries to relieve the burden on American troops, now is the time to mend fences with the United Nations and our allies to relieve the burden on American taxpayers as well.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Rob Hatem) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); REFUGEES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; CREDIT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: HEPBURN, DONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (52%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); GULF STATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (71%) IRAQ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



45 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stand Could Stall Korea Talks, Chinese Say 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
As North Korea reversed itself and pledged to continue negotiating about its nuclear program, Chinese officials argued today that the bigger obstacle to a diplomatic solution is what it called the reluctance of the United States to bargain in earnest.
 The official North Korean news agency, K.C.N.A., said today the North was still committed to negotiations about its nuclear program. It was the first confirmation that North Korea intends to take part in a new round of talks after it issued a stream of invective against the United States, called the just-completed talks in Beijing useless and said it was "no longer interested" in dialogue. 
 "The D.P.R.K.'s fixed will to peacefully settle the nuclear issue between the D.P.R.K. and the U.S. through dialogue remains unchanged," the news agency said in a dispatch released this afternoon, using the initials of the country's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 
North Korea's position, if it remains the same, appears to confirm China's earlier statement that all parties that took part in the last round -- the United States, North Korea, Japan, South Korea and Russia, as well as China -- were ready to continue negotiations within two months.
The switch comes as China's top diplomats have grown increasingly concerned that the United States does not have a negotiating strategy beyond using multilateral talks to put pressure on North Korea, analysts who have spoken to Chinese officials about the issue said today.
In contrast, these analysts said, China is persuaded that North Korea is prepared to trade away its nuclear program for the right mix of security and economic incentives.
Wang Yi, China's vice foreign minister and the host of last week's talks, told reporters in Manila on Monday that he considered the United States the "main obstacle" to settling the nuclear issue peacefully. He did not elaborate, but in a regularly scheduled briefing today, China's Foreign Ministry spokesman, Kong Quan, backed up the point.
"How the U.S. is threatening the D.P.R.K. -- this needs to be further discussed in the next round of talks," Mr. Kong said. He said new talks should focus on addressing what he called Washington's "negative policy" toward North Korea.
The statements are significant because China has played the principal role in bringing the parties together for talks. The administration would also need at least tacit backing from China, North Korea's largest aid donor and trading partner, to impose sanctions if the North began testing and deploying nuclear weapons.
People who have been briefed on China's position say that officials here believe that negotiations will ultimately collapse unless the Bush administration adopts a more nuanced bargaining strategy that provides a clear blueprint for dismantling North Korea's nuclear facilities while simultaneously addressing the country's security concerns.
"There is a widespread sense that the U.S. is the problem," said Chu Shulong, a foreign affairs expert at Qinghua University. "China wants everyone to be prepared to take steps at the same time, and doesn't understand why this is not reasonable."
At last week's negotiations, North Korea proposed a program in which it offered to dismantle its nuclear facilities and submit to inspections, but only after the United States signed a nonaggression treaty. The United States rejected that proposal, but offered little in return, maintaining that North Korea must completely and verifiably stop producing atomic weapons before discussions begin on any benefits it might receive for doing so.
American officials have said that they would not offer up-front benefits to North Korea because that would amount to succumbing to blackmail. North Korea acknowledged abrogating a 1994 pact with the United States and resumed nuclear weapons development last year, prompting the latest crisis.
Still, some outside experts argue that the Bush administration cannot maintain a no-bargaining position indefinitely if the negotiations are to progress beyond recitations of official positions.
"The first round just brought out the positions of both sides," said Susan Shirk, a former State Department official in the Clinton administration. "But if you want to solve the problem, there has to be a spirit of compromise on all sides." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



46 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Rises Again But EmploymentStill Erodes 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity picked up strongly in August for a second consecutive month, but the employment picture remained grim, a report released yesterday showed.
 The Institute for Supply Management reported that its manufacturing index rose to 54.7 last month from 51.8 in July. A reading above 50 indicates expansion, while one below 50 indicates that manufacturing activity is slowing. 
 The index in August was at its highest level since a 55.2 reading in December, and it was stronger than analysts had expected.
Norbert J. Ore, who oversees the index, said the numbers were encouraging: "Though two months of growth do not establish a trend, there is strength in the various segments of this report that we have not seen for some time."
Mr. Ore noted that new orders and production each had readings above 50 percent for four consecutive months, suggesting that "the continuation of a second-half recovery appears on track."
Still, employment continued to deteriorate.
Manufacturing companies have lost 2.7 million jobs since June 2000, and the institute's index for employment fell to 45.9 in August from 46.1 in July.
"It's a disappointment that factory employment appears to have declined slightly faster in August than in July," said Patrick Fearon, an economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. He blamed foreign competition in some industries and lack of strong capital spending in others.
In a speech on Labor Day, President Bush announced that he would create a high-level government post to nurture the manufacturing sector and to try to reverse the slide in employment.
The institute's index, which is based on a survey of managers who buy raw materials in 20 industries, is watched closely as a measure of the health of the manufacturing sector.
Manufacturing has been slower than other sectors to recover from the recession, but in recent months it has shown renewed strength. 
Economists said the August figures from the institute suggested that there would be further growth in coming months in manufacturing.
Dan Meckstroth, chief economist with the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, a business research group in Arlington, Va., said the overall report was positive.
"What's most important is that orders are expanding as fast or faster than production," Mr. Meckstroth said. "That means that prospects for future growth in production should continue to rise." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); US LABOR DAY (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (68%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



47 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Fuzzy Economic Thinking; 
Blaming Beijing

 BODY:
Unemployment in America is high, and elections are on the horizon. It must be time to look east again for scapegoats. Japan is only starting to recover from its protracted recession, so China will be handed the role of economic villain in the coming election cycle. Expect to hear a chorus of presidential candidates blame unfair Chinese competition for the nation's manufacturing woes. 
 China's trading partners do have legitimate grievances, but it would be irresponsible and inaccurate for American politicians to pin our economic sluggishness on scheming culprits in Beijing. 
 Exhibit A of what is alleged to be the perfidy of Beijing's communist rulers is China's $100 billion trade surplus with the United States. Exhibit B in the evolving politicized debate, if not the smoking gun proving Beijing's unfairness, is China's undervalued currency, the yuan, because an undervalued currency makes a nation's exports more competitive. The yuan has been pegged at about 8.3 to the dollar for some time. But most economists say China's currency would appreciate by as much as a third if allowed to float freely. 
Traveling in Asia yesterday, Treasury Secretary John Snow heeded political pressures back home in exhorting Chinese leaders to let the market price their currency. This is a desirable outcome in the long run, but a raft of immediate caveats come to mind.
China's financial system remains fragile, and sudden currency volatility could lead to a banking crisis that could spell disaster for the world economy. Washington would do better to urge China's leaders to focus on their lack of preparation to assume their proper role in the world's financial order, rather than to demand any supposedly quick fix. Moreover, China's refusal to devalue its currency in the aftermath of the late 1990's crises in East Asia (much appreciated by its neighbors and Washington at a time when the yuan seemed overvalued) adds credence to its leadership's insistence that it prizes stability when it comes to exchange rates, not short-term advantage. With most economists concerned that China's robust growth could fuel inflation and a speculative bubble, there are valid reasons for Beijing to fear a surging currency.
It would also be silly to argue that exchange rates, as opposed to cheap labor and other factors, are the primary reason Americans buy three-quarters of their toys from China. Nor does a prospering China, by definition, cost America jobs, as the experience of the late 1990's proved. American politicians should resist dusting off old complaints about Japan and redirecting them at China. This is hardly a case of an exporting nation that is unfairly protecting its own market. China's imports are growing at a faster clip than its exports, and the bulk of the exports registering in those eye-popping trade figures are goods built in China by the likes of Intel and America's automakers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); DEVALUATION (73%); TRENDS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); BANKING IN CHINA (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%) CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



48 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Endangered Peace in Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Afghanistan is paying a heavy price for the Bush administration's reluctant and miserly approach to nation-building. The central government is bankrupt and powerless. The economy remains inert. And now the Taliban appears to be making a deadly and alarming comeback, just 21 months after American-backed forces drove it from power. For weeks the White House has been hinting that more coherent, better-financed policies are on the way. They are badly needed. 
 By the time the Taliban left power, most Afghans reviled it. It could not have come back this far if postwar governance had been wiser. Despite the presence of thousands of American troops and vows of Pakistani military cooperation, the Taliban's leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, and many of its fighters managed to escape into the mountains or across the porous Pakistani border. Taliban fighters have now re-entered largely Pashtun areas of southern and eastern Afghanistan, where the Tajik-dominated national government is weak and resented, and have rebuilt a guerrilla army that is wreaking havoc. Afghans who cooperate with the Kabul government are targeted for assassination. International aid workers have been told to stay away for their own safety. America fought in Afghanistan because the Taliban let Al Qaeda operate and train there. Allowing the Taliban to rebuild a territorial base would negate Washington's military victory. 
 Kabul's estrangement from the southeast is compounded by the extreme disrepair of the war-devastated Kabul-to-Kandahar highway, the main road in a nation with few railroads. Despite substantial commitments of aid from America, Japan and Saudi Arabia, only about a tenth of the 300-mile highway has so far been repaved. The rest is ruts and dust, crippling commerce and leaving truckers vulnerable to bandits and Taliban guerrillas. The repair work needs to be substantially accelerated. 
Other regions are not faring much better. Most of the north and west is run by warlords loyal only to themselves. Many are better armed than President Hamid Karzai's government and pass on to Kabul only those tax revenues they choose to. Sending international security forces to provincial cities, as Germany now proposes, would help some. So would a clearer American policy of not making local military deals with warlords, arrangements that weaken the central government.
The White House soon plans to announce that American reconstruction aid will be doubled, to $1.8 billion a year, and a dozen senior American advisers will be sent to reinforce government ministries. That will be welcome, but probably not enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); ARMIES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); TERRORISM (66%); POLITICS (61%); RELIGION (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



49 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Around Boston Harbor, a Burst of New Building

BYLINE:  By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Several waterfront development projects are gaining enough critical mass to reveal silhouettes of the new urban concentrations rising around Boston Harbor.
 While the sluggish economy and the challenges of rebuilding near well-entrenched neighborhoods have stalled some big projects, parts of an old elevated highway that walled the water off from the downtown area are being demolished and replaced by a network of new roads, bridges, rapid transit and tunnels that are reuniting the city and its waterfront. The commercial, residential, industrial and infrastructure projects, in construction or recently completed, are creating neighborhoods on the water. 
 New sections of the Massachusetts Turnpike, Interstate 93 and the New Northern Avenue bridge lead to a range of projects being built or renovated in South Boston: Manulife Financial's $140 million glass-clad office tower, a $700 million convention center with a vaulted roof line, the Silver Line subway station topped by wavelike canopies, old warehouses and a new companion building with 120 condominiums that is the first phase of Beacon Capital Partners' $350 million Channel Center mixed-use complex. 
This week, a new $11 million seafood-processing plant owned by the Legal Sea Foods restaurant group, designed with a rooftop cod sculpture, is joining other recent additions to the maritime-industrial enclave.
And while this district has rising vacancies and falling rents along with the rest of the Boston area, investors and developers are competing to bet on the future of the nearly 400-year-old waterfront. In recent weeks, two development teams have submitted proposals, seeking to build a 1.5-million-square-foot mixed-use project on another harbor parcel that city planners are calling the "core block."
In the Fort Point Channel section, Tishman Speyer Properties of New York has offered about $500 million to buy 44 old wharf buildings, city officials said. 
The city, eager for the area's development to succeed even in this era of tight budgets, has created a $40 million loan fund to provide additional financing to hotel developers, including a group planning an 1,150-room Westin hotel adjacent to a 1.6-million-square-foot convention center scheduled to open next July.
"There's tangible progress, with old buildings coming down and the new convention center and Manulife headquarters building now all enclosed," Mayor Thomas M. Menino said. "This is the new Boston; development at the waterfront will spur economic growth for the whole city."
Projects are under way in the waterfront neighborhoods of South Boston (sometimes called the seaport district), downtown, East Boston and Charlestown. But the bulk of the building, about 20 million square feet over the next quarter-century, is planned for South Boston: five million square feet of office space, six million square feet of hotels, seven million square feet of housing (about 4,000 units), a million square feet of industrial space and 700,000 square feet of retail operations. 
Since 1998, construction has started or been completed on about six million square feet on 70 acres in the South Boston area, which is within walking distance from centers of finance, government, shopping and entertainment, as well as historic attractions. 
For decades, the waterfront's link to the downtown transportation grid was tenuous. But since the mid-1990's, $20 billion in public investment has been used to rebuild the transportation network on land, at the port and at Logan International Airport on the harbor's eastern edge, as well as cleaning the harbor's fetid water. Underground, modern telecommunications and utility systems have been threaded through the downtown area and the waterfront. 
All year, completed sections of the nation's largest transportation project, the $14.6 billion Big Dig, have slowly opened. For many people, the project's highways, tunnels and bridges have cut suburban commuting times in half. 
"It's rare for a city to build a new downtown highway system," said Stephen R. Karp, chief executive of the New England Development Company, which expects to start construction later this year on the 800-room first phase of the Westin hotel. The company is also seeking approval for a million-square-foot mixed-use project at Pier 4 and has just bid on the core block project. While noting problems including a still-unfinished infrastructure and lackluster bookings for the convention center, Mr. Karp said, "When the economy turns around, this will be the first office market to take off because there are no other signature locations or large blocks of space."
John E. Drew, chief executive of the Drew Company, a real estate development and management concern here, referring to prospects for the property market, said, "Over the long term, South Boston is where values will grow."
On an eight-acre South Boston parcel, Mr. Drew's company, in partnership with a unit of Fidelity Investments, developed and opened the 426-room Seaport Hotel in 1998, the 500,000-square-foot World Trade Center East in 2000, the 528,000-square-foot World Trade Center West in 2002, parking for 2,300 cars and, earlier this summer, 45,000 square feet of low-rise offices and retail space that knit the hotel to the west tower. 
Several other developers plan to start construction next year in South Boston and the downtown waterfront on 1,040 condominium units, 860 hotel rooms and the $37 million, 62,000-square-foot Institute of Contemporary Art. The museum has signed a 99-year ground lease for $1 a year with the Hyatt Development Corporation. 
On the downtown side of the harbor, Equity Office Properties, the city's largest office landlord, plans to start construction next year on a mixed-use complex that includes a 500,000-square-foot office building. "The market is tough, but quality assets are holding their occupancy," said Maryann G. Suydam, an Equity regional vice president, who estimates an 8.5 percent vacancy rate in the company's downtown properties.
In Charlestown, 1.3 million square feet of commercial space, 1,100 housing units and a 168-room hotel have opened in the last year.
East Boston, with views across the harbor from the downtown skyline, is to have the next big wave of building -- 1,500 condominium units with pocket parks, two new subway stops, a new marina and a shipyard. In July, construction started on the $105 million redevelopment of Maverick Gardens, a public housing project where 335 low-cost units and 425 units of market-rental apartments and condominiums are going up near the waterfront and a recently completed park. 
Near the park, starting early in 2004, the New Jersey-based Roseland Property Company is to break ground on the $192 million Portside at Pier One complex with 585 housing units, the company's president, Marshall Tycher, said. By 2005, city planners expect construction to start on the $40 million, 109-condominium Hodge Boiler Works and the $200 million Clippership Wharf's 400 condominiums, plus retail space, parks and landings for water taxis.
"We're moving ahead with a whole new neighborhood," said Clippership Wharf's developer, Roger Cassin, a partner in Noodle Island L.L.C. "I'm concerned about the economy, but the optimist in me agreed to do underground parking. We're poised to come on line at the peak of the recovery."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction on the Manulife building in South Boston. Despite a sluggish economy and ample vacancies, developers seem eager to build. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"National housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates through July. Graph tracks housing starts, sales and completions since 2000. (Source by Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division) Map of Boston highlighting area surrounding Boston Harbor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (75%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); FISHES (71%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (71%); RESTAURANTS (66%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; STORAGE; HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS 

COMPANY: BEACON CAPITAL PARTNERS LLC (90%); MANULIFE FINANCIAL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) MANULIFE FINANCIAL CORP; BEACON CAPITAL PARTNERS INC; LEGAL SEA FOODS 

TICKER: MFC (TSX) (56%); MFC (NYSE) (56%); 0945 (HKSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (90%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (56%)

PERSON: DIESENHOUSE, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) BOSTON (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



50 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: As China Gallops, Mexico Sees Factory Jobs Slip Away 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: TEZIUTLAN, Mexico 

 BODY:
At the Gicsa Corporation, workers hunched over bulky sewing machines, busily producing stacks of blue jeans for stores like Target and American Eagle Outfitters in the United States.
 But while the company still owns 10 factories filling orders for American clients in this lush swath southeast of Mexico City, all is not right in this and the 180 or so other low-wage textile plants packed into this region. 
 Mexico, long the king of the low-cost plants and exporter to the United States of products from Ford trucks to Tommy Hilfiger shirts to I.B.M. computers, is fast being supplanted by China and its hundreds of millions of low-wage workers.
The competition from China is no doubt hitting American manufacturers as well, particularly in textiles. But perhaps nowhere are the effects being felt more keenly than here in Mexico, where the toll in jobs is mounting at a staggering pace. 
More and more plants like Gicsa -- so-called maquiladoras that are allowed to import components duty free so long as they are assembled for export only -- are scaling back operations or closing altogether. In all, 500 of Mexico's 3,700 maquiladoras have shut down since 2001, at a cost of 218,000 jobs, the Mexican government says. 
As for Gicsa (pronounced HEEK-suh), a Mexican company that now produces a third fewer jeans than it did two years ago, its work force has shrunk by 30 percent, to 2,500 employees. Company officials say they are pondering what was once unthinkable: moving to El Salvador, where labor is 22 percent cheaper and regulations are less stringent.
"We may not go because we like the tortillas and the chilies," Luis Lapuente, the operations director and an owner, said with a wistful smile as he sat in a meeting room above the din of the factory floor. "But there are not many more reasons to stay."
The slide of companies like Gicsa has prompted soul-searching here in Mexico as this nation of 100 million assesses the last decade under a landmark free trade pact with the United States and a future of intensifying competition.
Even given the advantages conferred by the North American Free Trade Agreement, Mexican businesses have watched China become a major exporter to the United States of increasingly sophisticated goods. Mexico's $67 billion worth of exports to the United States in the first half of 2003 still top China's, but just barely. 
But China's exports to the United States grew 20 percent last year while Mexico's remained flat, and China is expected to surpass this country as the No. 2 exporter to the United States (Canada is still No. 1).
Mexican manufacturing continues to lead the way in supplying the United States with big-ticket items like cars, auto parts, large-screen television sets and appliances.
But China, which was admitted to the World Trade Organization in 2001, has displaced Mexico in many important industries, exporting more lamps, certain computer and electrical components, footwear, plastics, toys and sporting goods.
"Mexico has nearly lost the battle on low-skilled, labor-intensive industries, where it simply cannot compete with China on labor costs and will likely continue losing market share," Merrill Lynch said in a recent report.
Business executives here direct much of their ire at President Vicente Fox's government, saying it has failed to respond as China vigorously pursued foreign investment. To compete with a country whose labor costs one-fourth of Mexico's, they say, the government needs to reduce taxes, provide cheaper electricity, improve roads and curtail corruption.
"Right now, it is like competing in a race, but they are running on land and you are swimming in the water," said Mario Montes de Oca, owner of the Union Clothing Company, which has seen sales slip by 25 percent as exports to the United States tumbled in two years.
China itself, though, is not spared from criticism, some of it bordering on the xenophobic. Newspapers run headlines like "China: The Enemy to Vanquish," and "The Chinese Threat." Some government officials have reacted less than diplomatically. Fernando Canales, the economy minister, touched off a minor diplomatic dispute after recently telling reporters that China had "no respect for human rights" and was "not a country with solid political and economic institutions."
It has not helped that Chinese-made products like clothing, toys and even figurines of Mexico's patron saint, the Virgin of Guadalupe, are also flooding this country.
Chinese officials say they are simply embracing globalization.
"It is natural that there is concern," said Shi Wei, spokesman for the Chinese Embassy here. "But there should not be so much exaggeration of the economic threats from China."
The future was much rosier for Mexico in 1994 as tariffs fell after the trade pact with the United States and Canada went into effect. Mexican exports to the United States shot up and hundreds of thousands of factory jobs were created.
But as Mexico prepares to play host to a World Trade Organization meeting in Cancun next week, many businessmen and economists say some of the benefits have eroded because Mexico failed to improve its educational system and infrastructure.
Economists and Mexican government officials say Mexico needs to focus more on sophisticated high-tech products and to maintain its edge in big export items that are expensive to ship from China. Mexican industries must also react quickly to orders, taking advantage of the country's proximity to the United States.
"It's going to have to be upgrading and more sophistication in what they do, more skilled people making more sophisticated products," said Sidney Weintraub, an expert on Mexico's economy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
That means that companies that produce low-value products may disappear or contract sharply -- and no product is more symbolic to Mexico than textiles.
Just three years ago, Mexican textiles dominated the American market. The industry still remains robust, providing 12 percent of all clothing imported into the United States (China is No. 1, with 15 percent).
But here in Teziutlan, considered a regional textile center, about 50 plants have closed in two years and others have laid off workers. Nationwide, 325 of 1,122 maquiladoras that make clothing have closed since January 2001, many moving to China.
At the Gicsa plants, it is hard to imagine that anything is wrong. Workers furiously sew pockets and seams. Others snip off pieces of hanging thread with small scissors. Young men dash off with loads of the bright blue jeans, which are then taken to another site to be stone-washed.
Word is spreading about the threat from China though, said Josefina Castro, 33, a 17-year veteran.
"It worries us because there is very little other work around," she said, taking a break as sewing machines hummed around her. "In this plant no one has been laid off, but in others, yes, there have been lots of people who have lost their jobs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Guillermina Castillo Leal, at the Gicsa plant in Teziutlan where many worry about a threat to their jobs from China's low-wage work force. In Teziutlan, about 50 plants closed in two years and others laid off workers. (Photo by Roberto Rodriguez for The New York Times) Chart: "China's Surge"China is expected to supplant Mexico as the second largest exporter to the United States. (The leading exporter is Canada.) Graph tracks United States imports from Mexico and Canada from 1998-2002. LEADING IMPORTED PRODUCTS IN 2002 From ChinaToys, sporting goods, bicycles: $14.8 billionApparel, household goods: 13.3Computer accessories, peripherals: 13.2 From MexicoPassenger cars (new and used): $13.5 billionCrude oil: 11.4Apparel, household goods: 8.2 (Source by U.S. Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); TEXTILES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); TEXTILE MFG (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); TRENDS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

TICKER: AEO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (58%)

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); CHINA (97%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EL SALVADOR (79%) MEXICO; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



51 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Once Mild, Islam Looks Harsher In Indonesia 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The moderate strand of Islam that absorbed touches of Buddhism and Hinduism, and some mysticism, along its journey over the centuries here, is being eroded, some fear at a rapid pace.
 The battle for the soul of Islam in Indonesia is under way. Some have begun to ask whether the Islamists who want to create a caliphate across the Muslim areas of Southeast Asia will at the very least eventually succeed in Indonesia. 
 A group of American experts, headed by a former United States ambassador to Syria, Edward P. Djerejian, is scheduled to arrive here in coming weeks as part of a worldwide look at Islam. Eventually, they will report to the Bush administration on how to mold the American message to the Muslim world. They are likely to find some of the same underlying themes in Indonesia as in the Middle East, where the group has begun its work. 
Far-reaching changes in Indonesia's Islam have been under way for 20 years, says the distinguished historian of Indonesia, Merle Ricklefs. But the trends were largely hidden, he says, during the three-decade authoritarian rule of Gen. Suharto, which ended in 1998. 
No one argues about what's causing it: a political and economic leadership that even after the end of the dictatorship remains corrupt and inordinately selfish. World Bank statistics show that indicators of poverty and health improved under the Suharto government. But these numbers do not mean a lot to the 40 percent of the 220 million population who, by most estimates, are unemployed. 
To compound the social malaise, the Indonesian military -- which commands respect and remains one of the most revered institutions -- is widely regarded as corrupt. During the late 1990's, the army high command tolerated links between some of its officers and militant Islamic groups. Jemaah Islamiyah, whose spiritual leader Abu Bakar Bashir was sentenced to four years in jail today, seems not to have enjoyed military support. But Laskar Jihad, a group that specialized in fighting Christians in the Maluku Islands, and the Islamic Defenders' Front, which has vandalized nightclubs and bars in Jakarta, have been linked by human rights groups to the army. 
Adding to this volatile mix came Suharto's decision in his waning days to court Muslim associations that he had previously suppressed. With his encouragement, they sent students to Saudi Arabia and Egypt, and many returned with anti-Western and anti-Semitic ideologies that had been largely absent from Indonesia. This growing connection with the Middle East developed further in the 1990's, when Saudi Arabian charities began financing mosques and the large network of Muslim boarding schools in Indonesia. The highly conservative Wahhabi strain of Islam, which was largely unknown in Indonesia, filtered into some of the boarding schools through teachers from Saudi Arabia. 
The end of the Suharto government gave an important impetus to the most extreme of Indonesia's Islamic groups, Jemaah Islamiyah.
Many of its members, young men in their 20's and 30's, had been forced into exile in Malaysia, and from there had gone for training at Qaeda camps in Afghanistan. After 1998 they returned home to the freer atmosphere of a more democratic Indonesia. They used familiar stamping grounds -- mostly small religious boarding schools, like Al Mukmin in the village of Ngruki in central Java -- to regroup, and plot their terror attacks. 
But Jemaah Islamiyah was only the most extreme of a number of groups that were galvanized by the events of 9/11 and the American response in Afghanistan. Indonesia's Council of Muslim Scholars, considered a fairly benign organization, intensified its polemics, calling on all Muslims of the world to unite against the United States. The articulation of such common grievances helped fortify Indonesian Islam with the anti-Western and anti-Jewish ideology of the Arab world in ways that were quite new. 
The growing strength of the militant groups has been accompanied by adherence to stricter forms of Islam among mainstream Muslims. In a recent poll by Tempo magazine, the nation's leading newsweekly, 60 percent of those questioned said they would not object to the introduction of Sharia, the often harsh Muslim system of justice. A new political party, the Justice Party, has made the imposition of Sharia one of its main planks. The party is led by smart, highly educated men and women, who say they are determined to bring both orthodox Islam and economic prosperity to Indonesia. 
The Justice Party has only a few seats in the Parliament, but in alliance with other larger Islamic parties it has pushed legislation calling for such things as a legal right for Muslims to be treated by Muslim doctors.
So far, none of these bills have made it into the law books. But each time they come up for discussion they serve as the catalyst for volatile debates and make some Westerners wonder whether they should view Indonesia as a creeping Islamic state.
The president of Indonesia, Megawati Sukarnoputri, is the daughter of Sukarno, the nation's founder and a determined secularist. She is reputed to be a secularist, too, but unlike her forceful father, she remains mostly above the fray. She has said virtually nothing about Jemaah Islamiyah, or any of the militant groups. The leaders of the major moderate Muslim organizations have refrained from criticism, too. It is not appropriate, they argue, for one Muslim to criticize another. 
Mr. Djerejian's group, which includes Dr. Shibley Telhami, professor for peace and development at the University of Maryland, and John Zogby, the president of the polling firm, Zogby International, is supposed to figure out how to win friends for the United States in the Muslim world. If they are finding it a hard slog in the Middle East, they are unlikely to find it much easier in Indonesia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students at Al Mukmin boarding school in Ngruki chanted anti-American slogans yesterday. (Photo by Kemal Jufri/Imaji, for The New York Times) Map of Indonesia highlighting Ngruki: Islamic militants used the village of Ngruki as a place to regroup.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); ARMIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); HISTORY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (78%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICS (71%); ETHICS (71%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); SENTENCING (67%); LITIGATION (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); STATISTICS (65%); VANDALISM (64%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ISLAM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; SUHARTO 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%) INDONESIA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



52 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Africans Outdo U.S. Patients In Following AIDS Therapy 

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

 BODY:
Contradicting long-held prejudices that have clouded the campaign to bring AIDS drugs to millions of people in Africa, evidence is emerging that AIDS patients there are better at following their pill regimens than Americans are. 
 Some doctors, politicians and pharmaceutical executives have argued that it is unsafe to send millions of doses of antiretroviral drugs to Africa, for fear that incomplete pill-taking will speed the mutation of drug-resistant strains that could spread around the world. 
 The danger already exists: nearly 10 percent of all new H.I.V. infections in Europe are resistant to at least one drug.
For Africa, the issue is particularly touchy because it is tinged with racism. In 2001, for example there was an outcry when the director of the United States Agency for International Development said that AIDS drugs "wouldn't work" in Africa because many Africans don't use clocks and "don't know what Western time is." 
Now surveys done in Botswana, Uganda, Senegal and South Africa have found that on average, AIDS patients take about 90 percent of their medicine. The average figure in the United States is 70 percent, and it is worse among subgroups like the homeless and drug abusers.
Compliance has become easier because drugmakers from India and elsewhere are beginning to make triple-therapy cocktails that come in as few as two pills a day. (These are not available in the United States yet because of patent problems -- no Western company makes all three drugs for an ideal cocktail.)
After nearly a decade of watching Africans die because AIDS drugs cost $10,000 or more a year per patient, rich nations began pledging aid after generic competition in 2001 drove prices down to about $300 a year. Last week the World Trade Organization agreed to alter its rules to give poor nations more access to life saving medicines.
But as with any epidemic moving through a poor and ill-educated populace, the threat of disaster clings like a shroud. Patients in badly supervised programs have been caught selling pills or sharing with desperate relatives -- acts of greed or mercy that could lead to doomsday strains of the virus.
Anti-retroviral therapy "is the No. 1 priority for the developing world," said Robert C. Gallo, director of the Institute for Human Virology and a pioneer in researching H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. "But it will be a tragic mistake if it's not done right. You'll have 'Eureka!' and 'Thank you, America!' for two or three years -- but then you'll get multi-drug resistance, and whoops. . . ."
Drug-resistant strains are inevitable, doctors say, and turn up in every illness from malaria in Africa to children's ear infections in Manhattan. Hard-to-cure variants evolve spontaneously in response to drugs. But they are more likely to grow and be passed on if patients skip doses, because triple therapy often suppresses even mutant strains. To avoid an epidemic of incurable AIDS, new drugs must be discovered faster than old ones become useless.
Africa can still do better than the West, they say, by avoiding old mistakes. Today's drugs are more potent and no one will spend years on one drug, thereby breeding resistance, as many Westerners did on AZT before triple therapy emerged in 1996.
Moreover, doctors say, most African patients are zealous about their regimens. They are also more truthful when estimating their adherence, said Dr. David Bangsberg, a professor of medicine at the University of California in San Francisco who has studied compliance patterns here and abroad.
On average, he said, American patients tell their doctors that they are doing 20 percentage points better than they really are -- that is, a patient who says he takes 90 percent of his pills will, when tested with unannounced home pill counts or electronic pill-bottle caps, turn out to be taking 70 percent.
A study of 29 Ugandan patients found that, on average, they estimated that they were taking 93 percent of pills and proved to be taking 91 percent.
Though poor, more than 80 percent of the Ugandans had jobs, though most earned less than $50 a month. Most were women in their 30's, and paying $27 a month for their twice-a-day, three-drugs-in-one pill called Triomune, made by Cipla Ltd. of Bombay.
In many such cases, explained Dr. Merle A. Sande, a University of Utah medical school professor who also works in Uganda, the whole extended family, possibly with several infected members, will chip in so that one member will be saved to care for the children.
"If the whole family is pooling its resources to pay for you," he said, "you damn well better take your drugs.
"That's a whole different scenario from the U.S., where patients get free medicine, and if they change therapy, will let a month's worth go to waste." 
Several doctors in Africa said their patients were highly motivated because they had seen friends or family die. Most come in only when deathly ill, so the drugs seem to perform a miracle, making them well enough to go back to work. And even $1 a day is a lot, so they treat it as "an investment," said Dr. Elly Katabira of Makerere University Medical School in Uganda.
In Botswana, with the world's highest infection rate, pill counts on 400 of the 10,000 patients on therapy showed that 85 percent were taking their pills flawlessly, said Dr. Ernest Darkoh, the national program manager. "If you loosen the criteria a little -- missing a dose by two hours, for example -- you get about 90 percent," he added.
There are a few exceptions, he admitted: "Some people bring back their pill containers saying, 'Thank you, but my traditional healer told me not to take these.' "
However, some programs are not as good as others.
In Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, an ambitious, widely praised plan to get generic drugs to 15,000 citizens has been hampered by bureaucracy, corruption and a scarcity of laboratories.
Dr. Ernest Ekong, an AIDS specialist at the Military Reference Hospital in Lagos who has made Nigeria's case at international conferences, at first said adherence so far has been "no problem." Then he began to qualify that.
Some patients, he said, have felt so well that they shared pills with friends who could afford the $10 monthly charge.
Some who developed "nevirapine rash," or nerve tingling, cut back.
"And," he admitted, "a very small percentage are selling their drugs."
Non-adherence, he said, is worst among patients with co-infections that require more pills -- tuberculosis patients, for example, must also take four antibiotics.
No formal resistance study has been done, but Nigerian doctors are worried about a few patients who are taking all their pills but not getting better -- a sign that they might have resistant strains.
The best adherence seems to come under tight supervision.
A recent study in Cape Town found that older patients, patients who took pills twice a day instead of three times, and patients who spoke the same language as clinic staff members tended to do best.
In May 2001, Africa's best-known pilot project was opened by Doctors Without Borders in a crowded, dirt-poor black township near Cape Town called Khayelitsha.
Because the drugs were then scarce, the charity set high hurdles for patients, so high that only 550 of the clinic's 5,000 visitors are taking medication now. It reports extraordinarily high levels of compliance.
Pill counts by social workers show that, after six months on treatment, 96 percent of the patients are still taking 95 percent of their pills.
As a surer but more expensive backup, blood tests see how many have minuscule levels of virus, an indication that they have faithfully taken their pills.
After six months, 91 percent do; at 18 months, 83 percent do.
"That's pretty good," said Dr. Eric Goemaere, the program's director. "Certainly better than what you see in most North American studies."
To qualify for treatment, patients must give up all alcohol and drugs; complete three months of taking a simple antibiotic; be on time for four clinic appointments in a row; reveal to their families that they are H.I.V. positive; and choose a friend who must come to counseling, make sure all pills are taken and report problems to a nurse.
Dr. Bangsberg expressed surprise at how demanding the clinic was.
"Imagine trying to impose the no-drinking rule in San Francisco," he said.
Such standards are tough but necessary, Dr. Goemaere said. Binge drinking is the norm in South African townships, he said, and studies show that patients with histories of alcohol abuse or depression are the worst at taking their pills.
"There are certainly parts of Africa where you wouldn't want to try this -- in Congo, for example," he said. "But 65 percent of South Africa is urbanized. People know how to take a taxi and get to an appointment -- and how to take their pills." 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Wednesday comparing Africans' and Americans' ability to take AIDS drugs on time misattributed a comment about American patients. The researcher who said that when those patients change their pill regimens, they often "let a month's worth go to waste," was Dr. David Bangsberg of the University of California, San Francisco, not Dr. Merle A. Sande of the University of Utah.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (95%); ANTIVIRALS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); DRUG RESISTANCE (89%); MALARIA (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); VIROLOGY (76%); VIRUSES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (73%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) AFRICA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); UGANDA (92%); SENEGAL (92%); BOTSWANA (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%) AFRICA; BOTSWANA; UGANDA; SENEGAL; SOUTH AFRICA; INDIA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



53 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Golden Years, on $678 a Month; 
In City, Growing Older and Poorer Often Go Together

BYLINE:  By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
She trudged languorously along the thrumming streets of Elmhurst, Queens, lost in her early evening thoughts. The air was moist and still. She turned left on Justice Avenue, away from the crowds. She dislikes crowds. When she reached the Queens Center Mall, with its clatter of commerce, she turned around. Stores foster an undercurrent of tension in her.
 Walking consumes time, and in the awkward caution of her life it drains her of troubled memories. She does this loop from her apartment every day. She derives comfort from one of the few things she can do that carry no price tag. 
 Anna Berroa is 68, and she is poor. 
This is a doleful life that Anna Berroa never anticipated. It seemed to catch her unawares. One moment she was middle class, envisioning a placid old age, and then a series of untoward events ambushed her. Last year, Ms. Berroa received $8,136 from Social Security, and that was it. She has no savings, no investments, dim hopes.
Poverty is particularly frightful from the lens of old age, when there are few, if any, opportunities to enhance one's prospects and the only escape hatch seems to be death. "When you have nothing in the future, you don't dwell on that," Ms. Berroa said. "And since I had so many bad things happen in the near past, I don't dwell on that. Just today, 5 o'clock. Then 6 o'clock. Hour by hour."
All in all, the well-being of the elderly has been improving steadily for decades. The current generation of older Americans is living longer, feeling better, being more active and earning more money. Recent stock market losses and near-invisible interest rates have darkened the picture for many elderly, even forcing some to return to work. Still, the 2000 census shows that over the last decade, the poverty rate among those 65 and older fell to 10.2 percent from 12.7 percent.
But life for New York's elderly population is worsening. Researchers at the International Longevity Center-USA, an organization based in New York that focuses on aging, recently examined the subject. Victor Rodwin, who directs the center's World Cities Project, summed up the findings: "The message is that as the number of older people in the country in poverty has gone down, in New York City it has gone up." 
While many elderly in New York are flusher, about 17.1 percent of the city's population 65 and older, or 160,000 people, are poor, an increase from 16.5 percent in 1990. When the Longevity Center study expanded the parameters to those earning 125 percent of the poverty line -- $8,259 for a single person over 65 -- it discovered that 34.5 percent live on meager incomes.
Advocates for the elderly fear that with the weak economy, the rising number of poor immigrants and the higher living costs, the problem will continue to worsen. Bobbie Sackman, a spokeswoman for the Council of Senior Centers and Services, a New York advocacy group, said the population of poor elderly was expanding as programs to help them were shrinking.
"A lot of the poverty among seniors is invisible," Ms. Sackman said. "These people are adults. You assume they can take care of themselves. They walk down the street with dignity. They're not going to tell you they can't pay the rent, they can't eat, they can't buy a gift for their grandchild."
Elderly women, who live nearly six years longer than men, are twice as likely to be poor. Many enter poverty from left field, tricked by wicked turns of fate. 
Anna Berroa came here from Havana as a child, married a dentist, settled in Queens and had four children. Divorce came in 1965, but she managed to raise her children and get them started on their lives.
She remarried in 1983. Her second husband had a business putting in insulation. He earned about $50,000 a year. She held accounting jobs, the last as controller for a small medical company, but stopped working in 1993 when she suffered a nervous breakdown and couldn't get herself out of bed.
Her husband told her to just get better, they didn't need her income.
Wives usually outlive their husbands, but Ms. Berroa's second husband was 14 years younger. "I figured he would bury me," she said.
She didn't know he would get throat cancer (he smoked five packs of cigarettes a day), that it would invade his liver and bones. He was 50 when he died in 1999. 
Her sense of their finances was limited. "I was an accountant, but he took care of all the finances," she said.
She knew he had a 401(k) plan, but not how much was in it. It was his surprise, he would tell her.
He was right about the surprise. It held $10,000, a fraction of what she had imagined. There was $30,000 more in savings and a $25,000 life insurance policy. They rented an apartment that cost $1,000 a month.
In March 2001, looking to improve her finances, Ms. Berroa sank $5,000 into Microsoft options. When she sold them months later, they were worth $700.
She hunted for work. Her age scared off employers. By the fall of 2002, she was down to $10,000. That September, her oldest granddaughter became severely depressed, and Ms. Berroa used her remaining money to help pay for care.
The girl seemed to improve. Then she jumped in front of a train in New Jersey. She was 19.
Ms. Berroa had to abandon her apartment, cram belongings into a storage locker. She moved in with friends. She applied for subsidized housing for the elderly but was advised that the wait could be two years. She went on Medicaid, which paid for her medication for depression and high blood pressure, and was given food stamps. Her children helped when they could. Five close friends died within the space of six years.
In December, she stopped at the Elmhurst-Jackson Heights Senior Center and threw herself at the mercy of a good-hearted woman named Lucy Garcia, the associate director. A part-time trainee job was available for $100 a week, and Ms. Berroa got it. "She was in bad shape," Ms. Garcia said. "You don't want to feel you're no longer good for anything."
A few months ago, Ms. Berroa got wind of an elderly woman wanting to rent out a room. She crowded a haphazard mixture of furniture into the room. Some of her clothing was stuffed in garbage bags on the floor, remnants of her former life.
"If I did one thing in my life, it was shopping," she said. "It was my favorite pastime."
Now she never shops; she has bought no clothing other than pantyhose in nearly two years.
She has lived in the apartment a little more than three months. The woman charges $450 a month. She pays $115 for the storage locker, $125 for telephone and cable service. Around $200 goes for necessities not covered by food stamps. On weekdays, she gets free breakfast and lunch at the center for the elderly. Still, when the month is over, nothing is left. "My entertainment is the television," she said. And she surfs the Internet on her four-year-old computer.
The income from her part-time job allows her to eke by, though it will mean she will lose her food stamps and her Medicaid status will change.
As it is, her life is bare-bones. She often hangs around the center until 7 in the evening, after everyone has left, because there is no place she wants to go. Weekends are hard. The center is closed. On Sundays, she often visits the Salvation Army church in Jamaica. She donated her piano to the church, and by attending the services she gets to play it.
July 4 was her birthday -- 68. She spent it alone, in her room. The highlights were the calls from her children. A friend asked her to dinner, but she felt funny because she knew she couldn't reciprocate, so she declined.
She crossed the room and sat down. What frightens her is that her life is unsatisfactory now, and she could live 20 or 30 more years. Except for her depression, she is in good health. What happens if she deteriorates, needs more prescriptions, can't even work part time? 
"I knew my life would be more frugal when I got older," she said. "But I didn't think it would be this bad. I was healthy. I could work. How could I not keep having a life? I don't expect life will be better. I just hope and pray it doesn't get worse." 
A leaden morning at the Elmhurst-Jackson Heights Senior Center. Lunch was soon, the big draw. It's a largely immigrant population, many of them also teetering on the edge. One woman, 101, comes every day.
Ms. Berroa does whatever needs doing -- answers the phone, translates, checks on bills.
The other day, a depressed woman wanted to talk. She had been laid off, with severance for six months. For nine months, she had looked for work. Her savings were nearly gone. Ms. Berroa sympathized. She didn't mention that she was even worse off.
"I feel sad, but I'm not angry," she said. "I wish it hadn't happened. I wish I had planned it better."
Suddenly it was after 5 and the center was quiet. She gathered her things. She walked over to her apartment and stepped out of her work shoes and into flats. Then she embarked on her ritual walk. 
She headed toward Woodside, away from the crowds. She bumped into someone from the center. "Nice day," he said.
"Yes," she said. "Nice day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anna Berroa helps out at a center for the elderly in Queens. "When you have nothing in the future, you don't dwell on that," she says. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Her daily walk in Elmhurst, Queens, is free, but everything else costs money that Anna Berroa, 68, doesn't have, even with Social Security and a part-time job. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); ELDER HEALTH (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); POVERTY RATES (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); POPULATION SIZE (67%); CENSUS (65%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%) Aged; Women; Aged

ORGANIZATION: International Longevity Center-USA

PERSON: N R Kleinfield; Berroa Anna

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



54 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Census Shows Ranks of Poor Rose in 2002 By 1.3 Million 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The number of Americans living below the poverty line increased by more than 1.3 million last year, even though the economy technically edged out of recession during the same period, a Census Bureau report shows. 
 The spike in economic hardship hit individuals and families alike. The report indicated that the total percentage of people in poverty increased to 12.4 percent from 12.1 percent in 2001 and totaled 34.8 million. At the same time, the number of families living in poverty went up by more than 300,000 in 2002 to 7 million from 6.6 million in 2001. 
 The number of children in poverty rose by more than 600,000 during the same period to 12.2 million. The rate of increase in children under age 5 jumped a full percentage point to 19.8 percent living below the poverty line from 18.8 percent a year earlier.
"These numbers provide a moving picture of population changes," said Stephen Buckner, a spokesman for the Census Bureau. "It's more timely data that should allow decision makers to make more informed judgments." 
The new data, some analysts say, may raise the level of scrutiny on a variety of federal programs like welfare reform and the recently enacted increases in child tax credits, which excluded about 6.5 million low-income working families with children. 
Stuart Butler, an economist with the Heritage Foundation, a Washington policy institute, called the data "a fairly predictable product of the slowing economy."
"The issue is, what do you do to continue to strengthen the economy?" Mr. Butler said. "You take the necessary steps to encourage people to move back into the work force, plus making sure we don't do anything to weaken the welfare reforms put in place some years ago."
Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said, "Some people had drawn a Pollyanna-ish conclusion that somehow changes in the welfare system would insulate children from increases in poverty during economic slumps." 
"These new data show that that assumption is flatly incorrect." Mr. Greenstein said. "It also underscores the mistake in federal tax policies that exclude the very families who are hurting the most."
The data, released today, is found in the Census Bureau's American Community Survey, a rolling month-to-month sample of the social and economic makeup of 742,000 households in 1,239 counties across the country. 
The bureau's Current Population Survey, to be released at the end of September, still functions as the official barometer for measuring national income and poverty estimates. It is also used by the Labor Department to calculate the monthly unemployment rate. But the American Community Survey, which the Census Bureau began testing nationally in 2000, is eventually intended to replace the census long form in representing the most detailed sample of American households. 
Assessed annually, rather than every 10 years like the current long form, the Community Survey, census officials said, should enable policy makers to better determine needs in allocating federal, state and local financing for a variety of services. The American Community Survey also calculates for much smaller geographic areas than the Current Population Survey, allowing more focused analysis. 
The adjusted poverty line figures for 2002 have yet to be released. But in 2001, a family of two adults and two children would have to have made less than $17,960 a year to be ranked as living below the poverty level. For a single person under the age of 65 the poverty line in 2001 was roughly $9,200 a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); CENSUS (93%); FAMILY (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (87%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%) CENSUS BUREAU 

PERSON: CLEMETSON, LYNETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



55 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Relaxes Restrictions On Sale of Contaminated Land 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency has relaxed restrictions on selling some land contaminated with PCB's for redevelopment, reversing a 25-year-old policy. 
 According to an internal memorandum issued in mid-August, the agency will no longer prohibit the sale of PCB-contaminated land unless the property is severely poisoned. The memorandum was first reported in today's USA Today. 
 Robert E. Fabricant, whose resignation as general counsel of the environmental agency is effective on Wednesday, wrote that the old policy was "an unnecessary barrier to economic redevelopment" and that it might "actually delay the cleanup of contaminated properties as well." 
Lisa Harrison, an agency spokeswoman, said: "Right now, PCB sites may be sitting unused and undeveloped because this prohibition on the sale or transfer of PCB's was a disincentive to property transfers."
Ms. Harrison added, "By reducing the obstacle, we can increase the number of properties cleaned up and reused."
But environmental groups and some agency employees say smaller abandoned sites contaminated by PCB's could fall through the cracks more easily under the new policy. 
"There is a pattern developing where E.P.A. is making it easier to redevelop contaminated sites at the expense of public health," said Julie Wolk, an environmental health advocate from the U.S. Public Interest Research Group.
PCB's, or polychlorinated biphenyls, are toxic substances that take a long time to break down in the environment. They are known to cause neurological and immunodeficiency development disorders in children.
Environmental agency employees say that the 500 or so most severely PCB-contaminated sites, like land along the Hudson River that was contaminated by the General Electric Company, fall under the federal Superfund law and will not be affected by the change in agency policy.
But the agency does not know how many other contaminated sites there are, in part because there is no uniform requirement for property owners to notify the agency of the PCB contamination. 
Ms. Wolk said the agency's online database listed only eight PCB-contaminated sites in New York that are not Superfund sites.
Environmental groups and some environmental agency employees estimate, however, that several thousand contaminated sites around the country are not under the purview of the Superfund law.
Some agency employees say the longstanding restriction on the sale of PCB-contaminated land served as an incentive for owners to notify the agency of the contamination and clean up their property. Notifying the agency before the sale of contaminated property and getting the agency's approval of a cleanup plan helped protect sellers from liability after the sale. About 100 sites a year came up for agency approval, employees say. 
"You take away the incentive to make it happen now, there is a big difference in what gets cleaned up and how quickly," Ms. Wolk said. "You use an extra layer of protection which says that unless E.P.A. approves a good cleanup plan for it, it doesn't get sold."
Some employees say that the only way for the agency to force the cleanup of these smaller contaminated sites now will be through more cumbersome enforcement actions and settlement negotiations. 
The production of PCB's was banned in 1977, and their distribution was banned the following year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOIL CONTAMINATION (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SUPERFUND (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (72%); POISONINGS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); LAWYERS (69%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; PCB (POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS) 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (54%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (65%); GEC (LSE) (65%); GE (SWX) (65%); GE (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (65%)

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



56 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: China Resisting Pressure From U.S. Treasury Chief to Ease Its Currency Policy 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Wednesday, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said today that he was encouraged by "interim steps" China is taking to modernize its financial system, but acknowledged that Beijing had not committed itself to liberalize trading in its currency anytime soon. 
 Mr. Snow is under heavy political pressure at home to talk tough to China about the way it pegs its currency, the yuan, to the dollar, a system that some critics in the United States argue has kept the Chinese currency artificially undervalued and helped China amass the largest bilateral trade surplus with the United States. 
 In meetings with China's top financial officials Tuesday and today, Mr. Snow said he pressed them to establish a flexible exchange rate system, which some analysts believe would lead to an appreciation of the yuan and potentially reduce the advantage China's exports have in many overseas markets. 
He said Chinese leaders reaffirmed that they had a longstanding goal to move toward more flexibility, but did not provide a timetable. Chinese officials have said that they do not intend to overhaul their currency system immediately, especially at a time when international pressure is intense and currency speculators are seeking to force their hand. 
"I was encouraged to hear a reaffirmation of China's longstanding goal to move toward greater flexibility," Mr. Snow told reporters this morning. "I was assured that interim policy steps are now being taken and progress in this area will continue."
Among the policy steps he said he had discussed with Chinese officials were relaxation of capital controls that restrict the amount of foreign currency Chinese companies and individuals can take out of the country. He said Chinese officials also told him they were moving to loosen regulations on companies and individuals who want to invest abroad, a step he said could lead to an increase in the flow of Chinese money into American stocks and bonds. 
He said he hoped that China would also move to create more opportunities for American financial firms to own asset management companies, and for American insurance companies to open branch offices around the country. 
"These are interim measures that prepare an economy for a more flexible exchange rate system," Mr. Snow said. "It is to China's advantage to encourage flows both in and out." 
Mr. Snow did not make much headway, however, on pressing China to change its currency system. 
Chinese officials, in fact, appear determined to resist any outside pressure. They are also cautious about tampering with a currency system that has been a source of stability for the country's still backward banks since the yuan was pegged at 8.28 to the dollar in 1994.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, left, with Clark T. Randt Jr., the ambassador to China, before their talks yesterday with Chinese officials. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (94%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); BONDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INSURANCE (68%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CURRENCY 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; SNOW, JOHN W (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



57 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Personal Debt Surges in Britain 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Throughout this balmy summer, when temperatures hit their highs and people shopped for flimsy clothing and cooling drinks, Britons set records of their own -- mainly of red ink in soaring personal debt that could spell an imminent end to a feel-good era.
 The signs of the boom years are easy to see -- late-model cars bought on credit, restaurants and pubs bulging with diners and drinkers, housing prices higher than ever and crowds of shoppers invading the clothing, music and shoe stores of Oxford Street in London. 
 Britons, once dismissed as a nation of shopkeepers, now seem to be a nation of shoppers: so intense has been their spree that consumer spending accounts for virtually all of the country's economic growth.
 But there is a more ominous side to the spending boom. In the month of June alone, consumer borrowing surged by $15 billion from May, the highest monthly increase on record, taking total household debt to the equivalent of $1.4 trillion -- meaning that the mortgages, credit card debt, loans and overdrafts of the average British resident total at least 120 percent and possibly 130 percent of annual disposable income. 
 That proportion of debt to income is similar to personal debt levels in the United States, said John Butler, an economist at HSBC Bank, but British debt is growing much faster than its American counterpart. During Britain's last big economic boom, in the late 1980's, the proportion of debt to disposable income was around 80 percent, showing just how much Britons have come to rely on easy credit.
 "Many people have a habit of describing the U.K. as a mini-version of the U.S." in its readiness to borrow, Mr. Butler said. "In fact, it's a maxi-version." The sudden acceleration of borrowing in the last 18 months has been driven largely by people spending money from extra mortgage loans they have acquired at the lowest interest rates in more than 40 years.
 And the borrowing has not stopped at mortgages. "The key is that all forms of debt have been rising, so it's not just about shifting the kinds of borrowing," Mr. Butler said. "It's all rising," setting Britain apart from the Continent, where he described many people as "savers rather than spenders."
 Over the summer, figures released by Datamonitor, a private research group, said the average Briton's unsecured debt on credit cards and other borrowings had risen by about 40 percent in the last five years, to the equivalent of $5,400. 
 The government-run National Association of Citizens Advice Bureau said the number of people seeking advice on debt problems had risen by almost half over the last five years, with the average debtor confronted by repayment demands of about $17,000, equivalent to 13 months' income.
 "The U.K. is one of the most unbalanced economies in the world," said Holger Schmieding, a European economist at Bank of America. Its growth is based on consumption, he said, while investment is weak and the level of personal debt is "like a sword hanging over the economy."
 The debt free-for-all seems sharply at odds with the financial ethic advanced by Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, who insists that his economic watchword is prudence, even as the nation earns tax income from the increased spending.
 The story of British borrowing, thus, has little to do with caution and everything to do with lopsided growth that sets this country apart from the slowing European economies of France, Germany or Italy. Britain is still forecasting growth of 2.25 percent this year, though it may not reach that target, while important Continental economies have ground to a halt.
 And it is a story that highlights the distinction between the British and Continental economies that may obstruct British membership in the eurozone.
 For the last five years, housing prices here have been skyrocketing, and even with a recent slowdown, the annual increase is still 17.9 percent, compared with 25 percent a year ago, according to the Nationwide Building Society, a leading mortgage lender.
 At the same time, unemployment, which has risen in some other major European economies to around 10 percent, has fallen to its lowest level in more than four decades, to slightly more than 3 percent, providing more people with earnings to spend. The government itself has overseen the hiring of an additional 340,000 employees in the last six years.
 The increase in real estate prices enabled many people to simply expand their mortgage loans to obtain extra cash, secure in the knowledge that the value of their property more than offset the extra loans. And, with interest rates down -- they are currently pegged by the Bank of England at 3.5 percent, the lowest since the 1950's -- mortgage repayment costs also fell.
 Financial institutions that once discouraged debt, moreover, now encourage it with fierce competition among mortgage lenders, banks, loan consolidation companies and credit card issuers to lure customers with offers of low interest rates.
 Television commercials offer people in financial trouble a chance to group all their loans into one, sometimes with their homes as collateral. Credit card companies vie with one another in introductory offers of zero interest for six months followed by repayments at an annualized rate of 14 percent.
 Over the last year, though, there has been a shift. Increases in compulsory National Insurance withholdings to finance government pensions and increases in local residential taxes have offset wage increases running at 3 to 4 percent. So real income has begun to shrink, just as the dinner table chatter turns to the gradual easing of real estate prices. But despite the alarm signals, people have continued to borrow.
 The latest official figures suggest that consumer spending is growing by 1.3 percent a quarter, while lending is increasing by 14 percent a year, the fastest rate since 1990, at the end of another renowned boom that led to a painful retreat. In July, said the Confederation of British Industry, a leading employers' organization, sales at Main Street stores were "unexpectedly good."
 At the same time, though, many mortgage lenders are expecting interest rates to rise next year, so all those extra loans will cost more to repay. "We would urge all borrowers to ensure that they are building in enough flexibility to their household finances to be able to cope with higher mortgage repayments," said Michael Coogan of the Council of Mortgage Lenders, an industry group.
 The concern among economists is that while British growth continues to be pushed along by consumer spending, the debt-fueled boom cannot last forever, creating a quandary for the Bank of England's policy makers: a further drop in interest rates could spur growth from other sectors of the economy, but it would also increase consumer spending and personal debt.
 As ever, though, economists are looking at the housing market as the herald of a downturn. "Prices are now so high that it's starting to become unaffordable for first-time buyers," Mr. Schmieding at Bank of America said. "We will see the peak of the credit boom in the next few months."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A customer in a Marks & Spencer store in London. Consumer spending is driving the British economy. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (93%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); RETAILERS (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); FOOTWEAR (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); HOME PRICES (56%); SHOE STORES (55%) CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CREDIT; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) GREAT BRITAIN; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



58 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Deal Said to Be Reached In Inquiry on Failed Insurer
Credit Lyonnais and a corporation run by the French government have agreed to plead guilty and pay hundreds of millions of dollars to settle a federal investigation into the takeover of a failed California insurance company, people close to the situation said.
 The matter stems from the collapse of Executive Life, a California insurance company, in 1991 after its extensive portfolio of junk bonds lost much of their value. Credit Lyonnais acquired the junk bond portfolio for about $3 billion, and other French investors acquired the insurance business. Page C4. 

Stocks Start a September Rally
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 13.98 points, to 1,021.99. The last time the S.& P. closed higher was June 18, 2002, when it was at 1,037.14. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 107.45 points, or 1.1 percent, to 9,523.27, and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 31.03 points, to 1,841.48. C8.

Caremark Rx to Buy AdvancePCS
Caremark Rx agreed to acquire rival AdvancePCS for $5.6 billion, mainly in stock, combining two of the nation's largest pharmacy-benefits managers. C8.

Deal Reached With a Verizon Union
Verizon's largest union announced a tentative agreement with the company for a bargaining unit of 51 workers at Verizon Wireless. C2.

AT&T Files Suit Against WorldCom
AT&T filed a federal racketeering lawsuit against WorldCom, accusing it of fraudulently routing calls and mail and wire fraud. C12.

Talks Begin on China's Yuan Policy
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow arrived in China for a two-day visit that he said would focus on American concerns about China's currency, the yuan. A8.

Mexico, long the maker of products for a variety of American companies, is rapidly being supplanted by China and its hundreds of millions of low-wage workers.A3.

Saudi Arabia and Russia Sign Pact
Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, left, met with Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia, as the world's two biggest oil suppliers agreed to work on easing rules for setting up joint ventures in the oil and natural gas industry and to promote joint research on oil and gas exploration, production, refining and transportation. World Business, Section W.

Manufacturing Picked Up in August
The Institute for Supply Management reported that its manufacturing index rose to 54.7 in August from 51.8 in July. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. C12.

ING Sends 13 Workers Into Hiding
ING sent 13 Mexican employees into hiding to prevent Mexican authorities from jailing them in a case involving accusations that the company falsified documents to limit an insurance payout. World Business, Section W.

G.E. Bid Wins European Approval
The European Commission approved General Electric's planned $2.2 billion acquisition of the Finnish medical devices maker Instrumentarium on condition that G.E. sell one unit and promise not to shut out competitors in a European market the combined companies will dominate. World Business, Section W.

A Building Boom at Boston Harbor
Parts of an elevated highway that walled Boston Harbor off from the downtown area are being demolished and replaced by roads, bridges and tunnels that are reuniting the city and its waterfront. Commercial Real Estate. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,523.27 up 107.45Nasdaq composite -- 1,841.48 up 31.0310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.62% up 0.17The euro -- $1.0825 down 0.0159The dollar -- 116.29 yen down 0.45 Graph: "TODAY" shows construction spending from January to June. Construction SpendingJuly figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.5% Graph tracks the daily closing of Standard & Poor's 500 for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); APPROVALS (87%); TAKEOVERS (79%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (64%); OIL EXPLORATION (60%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (60%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ADVANCEPCS (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (90%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); CVS (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (55%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



59 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Latin Grammy Show Puts Miami to the Test 

BYLINE:  By MIRTA OJITO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The Latin Grammy Awards will be broadcast from downtown Miami on Wednesday night in an internationally televised ceremony, more than three years after Latin music producers and civic leaders here first tried to transcend local politics over Cuba to lure the event from Los Angeles.
 "It's a victory for the city," said Emilio Estefan, the music producer, who lives here with his wife, Gloria Estefan. "We will show that we have matured as a community." 
 For years the Latin Grammys have been mired in a debate centering on whether arts and politics associated with Cuba can ever be separated. If the event succeeds, it could greatly bolster Miami's position as the Latin entertainment capital, organizers say. If it doesn't, it would be another strike against a city that for years has struggled with an image of intractable politicalstrife over Cuba. 
Two groups representing wildly different views on Fidel Castro and Cuba have obtained city permits to demonstrate in front of the American Airlines Arena, where the show will take place and be broadcast on CBS at 9 p.m., Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time. One group opposes the presence of Cuban artists in Miami; the other supports their presence.
Ten of the 41 Latin Grammy nominees either live in Cuba or have not openly cut their ties to Mr. Castro's government. Because several of the nominees are musical groups, the Cuban delegation, if granted visas, could have more than 70 people, said Gabriel Abaroa, executive director of the Latin Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which sponsors the awards.
It is unclear who among them will be able to come to Miami because some of the artists who live in Cuba need visas to travel to the United States while others, who live in Europe, may not.
For many Cuban-Americans who grew up on the island and witnessed some of these artists singing the praises of Mr. Castro, an event that rewards them is a slap in the face, said Francisco Garcia, a spokesman for a group of exiles, many of them former political prisoners, who plan to protest.
"In any other country in the world perhaps arts and politics are truly separate, but not in Cuba," said Mr. Garcia, 54, who spent five years in a Cuban prison and three in a labor camp. "Castro has said many times, he said it from the beginning, that within the revolution, all was allowed; outside, nothing."
For others, like Mr. Estefan and Mayor Manny Diaz, the actions of Mr. Castro and his apologists must be exposed and criticized, they said, but not at the expense of robbing the city of the opportunity to shine with the Latin Grammys.
The event, with the Brazilian singer Caetano Veloso and the Panamanian salsero Ruben Blades among the nominees, is expected to attract 12,000 people. Artists like Marc Anthony, Ricky Martin and Thalia will perform; George Lopez, star of his own ABC sitcom, will be the host. Through an arrangement with CBS, the show will be seen in 110 countries, 40 of them through a live broadcast. 
"My heart is always divided in two," said Mr. Estefan, who left Cuba in 1967, when he was 13. "One part feels the pain of my country and my people and the other half refuses to do what Castro does. I have to support freedom of expression in all of its manifestations."
Mr. Estefan is not alone in his views. In a poll conducted three years ago by researchers at Florida International University, the local state university, more than 50 percent of Cuban-Americans were opposed to banning Cuban musical groups from performing in Miami. In fact, for the last few years, many Cuban artists, from singers to painters to actors, have come to this city to exhibit their work and perform without provoking the public ire of Mr. Castro's critics.
But this year the event comes after a wave of repression in Cuba that provoked immediate and widespread international repudiation: Three young men were executed in April for attempting to steal a government boat to leave the country, and 75 dissidents and human rights activists were jailed for terms ranging from 6 to 28 years. At least two dozen prominent Cuban artists signed a letter asking other artists around the world to stop their condemnation of the Cuban government. The jazz pianist Chucho Valdes, who reportedly signed the letter, is one of the nominees.
Right after the nominations were announced about six weeks ago, Mr. Estefan, who is co-producing the show but says he has no control over who goes onstage, said that if any of the Cuban nominees were to perform, he would walk out. His statement underscored the balancing act that elected officials and civic leaders must conduct here, pitting the interests of the city against the feelings of some of its most vocal and politically active citizens.
"This is about an industry that the city hopes to keep and expand," said Mr. Diaz, the Cuban-born mayor of Miami. "We are always hoping to diversify our economy, and not be so tourist-dependent. This is one way to do it."
Miami is already home to a number of Latin stars, like Julio Iglesias, Enrique Iglesias, Ms. Estefan and Mr. Martin. The two largest Spanish-language television networks in the country and one of the largest Hispanic radio groups are based here, as are most of the labels that record Latin artists.
Since the Latin Grammys were begun four years ago, many in the music industry thought that this was the ideal place to hold the awards show. But back then Miami-Dade County, in a bow to local animosity toward Mr. Castro, had an ordinance that, among other things, prevented the county from doing business with organizations or people with ties to Cuba, including artists.
When the ordinance was struck down by a court three years ago, the Latin Recording Academy decided to hold the show in Miami in 2001. Several groups of Cuban exiles announced that they wanted to protest the presence of Cuban artists from the island. After failing to agree on where the protesters would be allowed to stand on the night of the event, organizers decided three weeks before the show to return it to Los Angeles, where it remained until now.
Earlier this year, the academy moved its headquarters to Miami, and brought the show back. Soon after, City of Miami commissioners urged the academy to refuse to recognize or invite any Cuban artists to the Grammys and passed a resolution forbidding the city from spending any funds on the event, except those necessary to cover police and fire rescue.
Once again, the protesters demanded a space to vent their feelings. With the help of lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union, they were granted a permit to stand 168 feet from the entrance to the arena.
A group that supports the presence of Cuban artists in the Grammys has also been granted a city permit to demonstrate, about three blocks from their opponents. 
Despite the hurdles, the planned protests and the slight from city commissioners, Miami proved to be the best choice this year, Mr. Abaroa said, but there are no promises for the future.
"The show must go on," he said, "wherever that might be."

The Top Nominees
These are the nominees in the four top categories of the Fourth Annual Latin Grammy Awards, which will be presented tonight at the American Airlines Arena in Miami in a ceremony that will be broadcast on CBS.

RECORD OF THE YEAR
"Mi Primer Millon," Bacilos
"Es Por Ti," Juanes
"Hasta Que Vuelvas," Luis Miguel
"Frijolero," Molotov
"Ja Sei Namorar," Tribalistas
ALBUM OF THE YEAR
"Caraluna," Bacilos
"Mundo," Ruben Blades
"Un Dia Normal," Juanes
"Estrella Guia," Alexandre Pires
"Tribalistas," Tribalistas
SONG OF THE YEAR
"Caraluna," Jorge Villamizar, songwriter (performed by Bacilos)
"En el 2000," written and performed by Natalia Lafourcade
"Es Por Ti," written and performed by Juanes
"Mi Primer Millon," Sergio George and Jorge Villamizar, songwriters (performed by Bacilos)
"Tal Vez," Franco de Vita, songwriter (performed by Ricky Martin)

BEST NEW ARTIST
David Bisbal
Tiziano Ferro
NataliaLafourcade
Fernanda Porto
Alex Ubago

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emilio Estefan, a co-producer of tonight's Latin Grammy Awards, and his wife, Gloria, the singer. (Photo by Getty); The Brazilian singer Caetano Veloso is a Latin Grammy nominee. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. E1); The Latin Grammys are being held tonight in Miami, left, a hub of political tensions over Cuba. The Cuban pianist Chucho Valdes is a nominee. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (64%); RIOTS (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) MUSIC; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LATIN GRAMMYS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (89%) CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); OJITO, MIRTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) MIAMI (FLA); CUBA

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



60 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Lieberman Proposes Insurance To Cover Everyone to Age 25 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut said today that as president he would create a federal program to provide affordable health care coverage for 31 million people who do not have it, a group that includes the 9 million children who now lack health care benefits.
 The cost of the program would be about $54 billion a year in new federal spending, making it one of the least expensive plans being proposed by the Democrats who are running for president. Mr. Lieberman said his plan was the only one among those of the major candidates that would cover all children who have no benefits and would keep them eligible for benefits until age 25. 
 The senator did not explain how he intended to pay for his program. Aides said that would be covered when Mr. Lieberman unveiled his economic policy in a few weeks.
"When I'm president," he said, "newborn babies won't go home with just a name and a birth certificate. All American children, rich or poor, will have health insurance that stays with them from the moment they're born, all the way to age 25."
In announcing his proposal at the health center at Broad Acres Elementary School in Silver Spring, Md., Mr. Lieberman took special aim at the three Democrats who appear to be running ahead of the field -- Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont; Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts; and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri -- insisting that his plan would cover more people and cost less than their proposals. He also criticized President Bush as not doing enough to bring health care coverage to those who need it most.
"It's an outrage today that nine million American children are uninsured," Mr. Lieberman said. "I'll provide coverage to every child."
Mr. Lieberman tried to distinguished his plan from those of other candidates by focusing it on children. In addition to the new coverage, which he called MediKids and said would protect those in state programs when state budgets were strapped, he said the plan would create federal grants to help elementary schools across the country open health care centers based in schools.
Among the other Democratic candidates, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, Carol Moseley Braun and the Rev. Al Sharpton have taken the most expensive approach to health care, proposing government-run, single-payer plans. Mr. Gephardt has outlined another ambitious approach, a $214 billion plan that would require employers to provide private health care insurance in return for tax credits.
Mr. Kerry, Senator Bob Graham of Florida and Dr. Dean have outlined plans more modest in cost. Only Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has proposed anything close to Mr. Lieberman's in cost, but it would cover about a third fewer people.
Mr. Lieberman said the lower cost of his plan reflected the state of the economy, calling his proposal the first in a step-by-step approach that would expand as the economy improved. Mr. Kerry, Mr. Gephardt and Dr. Dean have said they would pay for their plans by repealing tax cuts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (59%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%) LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



61 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Fuzzy Economic Thinking; 
Job Czar for the Jobless

 BODY:
Considering that over 80,000 jobs have been shed for each month of his incumbency, President Bush's announcement that he is creating a new undersecretary of commerce post devoted to job creation is notable for its feebleness. The only detail yet clear is that the post is to be devoted to the "needs of manufacturers," and that is hardly a confidence builder for the 9 million trying to find work plus the millions more who have given up. 
 The 2.7 million jobs lost in the private sector in less than three years is one of the worst slides in decades. "There are better days ahead," Mr. Bush told union workers on Labor Day, in a choice of language that eerily echoes Herbert Hoover. The nation should not forget the president's earlier insistent prescription: in selling his tax cuts in the Republican Congress, Mr. Bush proclaimed them as just the economic "jobs and growth" package workers needed. But the unemployment problem remains rock-hard in resisting the administration's trickle-down fantasy that cuts for the affluent will generate new jobs for the working class. 
 The tax cuts have failed to do the trick, and the recovery has so far not been of a size sufficient to create jobs. Ominously, a new study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York says this recession's job losses have been far more structural and permanent than in the past. Now, a new job czar has emerged like the Wizard of Oz to signal that the presidential election cycle is upon us. The agony of the jobless deserves the fullest attention of the president and his eager rivals, and federal action more ambitious than the addition of employment for one happy undersecretary in the Commerce Department. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Wednesday about President Bush's plan for a new jobs creation post misstated the level of the post in the Commerce Department. It will be given to an assistant secretary, not an undersecretary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); US LABOR DAY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%) LABOR; EDITORIALS; UNEMPLOYMENT; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



62 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
The chief executive decides that G.E. can stand the risks of Hollywood's ups and downs.

BYLINE:  By Claudia H. Deutsch 

 BODY:
ON the surface, the merging of NBC with Vivendi Universal's entertainment assets would appear to be the last type of deal John F. Welch Jr. would have made for General Electric. 
 After all, Mr. Welch spent 20 years turning G.E. into a company that could be relied on for consistent earnings growth and high returns on capital. And Hollywood's volatility, with its unpredictable mix of flops and hits, would seem to represent the antithesis of that goal. 
 "Jack might have bought some cable distribution systems as bolt-on acquisitions, but I just don't think he would have done this," said Robert Friedman, an analyst with S&P Equity Research.
But Mr. Welch did not face the challenges that Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s current chief executive, does. And the merger with Vivendi Universal may not be as risky now as it would have been during the Welch era.
When Mr. Immelt became G.E.'s chief on Sept. 7, 2001, the company's profits were growing at a double-digit pace. Less than a week later, the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center knocked the economy into a tailspin -- and, saddled G.E.'s insurance unit with huge claims.
Just a few months earlier, G.E.'s planned acquisition of Honeywell International came apart, leaving the company's revenues top heavy with financial services. And the stocks of financial services companies historically trade at lower multiples than those of industrials. 
Mr. Immelt needed to find new ways to bolster G.E.'s nonfinancial businesses, but that has gotten only harder in this sluggish economy. Sales of plastics and other chemicals are down even as feedstock costs continue to soar. Few airlines are buying planes, and even fewer utilities are buying power systems. 
Indeed, when Mr. Welch retired, GE Capital and GE Power Systems were the company's two largest and most profitable businesses. NBC was sixth in revenue, fifth in profit. Today, GE Capital has been broken into four businesses, and only two of them -- consumer and commercial credit -- are robust. Power Systems, which sells turbines and the like to utility companies, is still biggest in revenue -- $22.9 billion in 2002 -- but its sales and profits are plummeting. NBC is now one of the fastest-growing units in profits, and its revenue jumped 24 percent from 2001 to 2002, to $7.1 billion. 
But Mr. Immelt clearly sees industrial bright spots. In G.E.'s last annual report, he named five businesses that he wanted to stress: consumer finance in the United States, security, water processing, wind energy and oil and gas exploration. And, his emphasis on health care information technology remains strong.
Like Mr. Welch, he has stressed services as G.E.'s best route to profits. But unlike Mr. Welch, he has stressed technology as the best route to those services. 
He has revamped G.E.'s corporate research laboratories to focus on breakthroughs, pushing the quest for incremental improvements back onto divisional budgets. He has discarded G.E.'s longtime advertising slogan, "We bring good things to life," in favor of "Imagination at work," which is less associated with mundane items like light bulbs. 
When G.E.'s industrial systems division first began making switching gear for electric networks 100 years ago, it was one of the highest-tech businesses G.E. had. Switches are now a commodity, so Mr. Immelt is turning the division toward industrial security, a thriving market in the post-Sept. 11 world. 
He bought BetzDearborn, a huge water treatment company, not so much for its stable of water treatment chemicals, but for its thousands of water treatment engineers, who help customers develop systems for purifying water.
He has been stressing the technology and services aspects of all the areas in which G.E. has a huge installed base. Even if Power Systems never sells another turbine, it can make money retrofitting existing ones with a new ceramic that enables fuel to burn hotter. The transportation division can make money helping railroads reconfigure trains and track them, while aircraft engines can help airlines figure out better routings. 
Mr. Immelt is not ignoring the finance business, of course. He has moved much of its debt from short to long term, and reorganized it into a series of discrete businesses like commercial loans and leasing. Many of those businesses, though, are in pruning mode. He has sold many of G.E.'s insurance businesses, and is reducing its investment in trucks, tractors -- pretty much any form of transportation equipment but aircraft -- that once underpinned a thriving leasing business. 
Slower-growth industrial businesses are ripe for the ax, too -- just not yet. Mr. Immelt consolidated lighting and appliances into a combined consumer products division, is cutting costs, and most analysts expect he will probably sell them when they can command a decent price. It is a lot of upheaval, but analysts say G.E. has little choice. Its stock, which traded around $60 three years ago, trades at half that now. "If Jeff wants to jump-start earnings, he simply has to move up the risk curve," Mr. Friedman of S&P said.
And to Mr. Immelt, the risk in the Vivendi deal is manageable. When he looks at Vivendi, he does not see a risky creator of content. He sees a valuable library of films that can run on Bravo and other G.E.-owned networks, that can be sold on DVD and through pay per view, and that can run on Bravo and other G.E.-owned outlets, as well as on the cable networks that Vivendi brings. 
Still, Mr. Immelt's tolerance for risk seems higher than that of his mentor and predecessor. "Jack was obsessed with smooth consistent earnings growth, but Jeff will sacrifice smooth earnings over the short term for higher returns in the long run," Mr. Friedman said. And that, Mr. Friedman suggests, is a much wiser course. "Investors who look solely for consistent earnings at the expense of higher returns over time are missing the point," he said. "Plenty of investors, including Warren Buffett, would take lumpy 15 percent growth over a smooth 10 percent." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (75%); EQUITY RESEARCH (74%); WIND ENERGY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); AIRLINES (67%); CONSUMER LENDING (65%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (50%); OIL EXPLORATION (50%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (86%); GE POWER SYSTEMS (82%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; NBC UNIVERSAL 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (93%); VIV (BIT) (93%); GNE (PAR) (86%); GEC (LSE) (86%); GE (SWX) (86%); GE (NYSE) (86%); HON (NYSE) (54%); HON (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (82%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (92%); JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); JOHN K WELCH (79%) DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H; IMMELT, JEFFREY R; WELCH, JOHN F JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



63 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Bush Looks to the U.N. To Share the Burden in Iraq
President Bush agreed to begin talks in the United Nations Security Council to authorize a multinational force for Iraq, but insisted that it be placed under American command, according to senior administration officials. It was a tacit admission that the current American-dominated force is stretched too thin. A1

A truck bomb exploded near the office of Baghdad's police chief, killing one officer and wounding 26 others, the police said. It was the fourth bombing in a month. A1

Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, the assassinated Shiite cleric, was buried in Najaf in an empty field that is expected to be transformed into a shrine. A9

Cleric Receives Mixed Verdict
An Indonesian court acquitted the Islamic cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, identified as the spiritual leader of Al Qaeda's Southeast Asia affiliate, of ordering a series of terrorist attacks. He was found guilty, however, of aiding and abetting treason, and was sentenced to four years in prison. A1

Another Shift by North Korea
North Korea reversed itself and pledged to continue negotiations over its nuclear program while Chinese officials said the United States was the biggest obstacle to a solution. A8

Israel May Expel Arafat
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz said Israel may move to expel the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, by the end of the year. A6

U.S. Treasury Chief Visits China
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow arrived in China for a two-day visit . But Chinese officials said they had no plans to give in to pressure about the way China pegs its currency to the dollar. A8

U.S. General Upbeat on Liberia
A senior American general said that a peacekeeping mission was going well enough that American troops might soon go home. A10

NATIONAL A12-16

Bush Administration Eases Rules on Emergency Care
The Bush administration is relaxing rules that say hospitals must examine and treat people who require emergency medical care, regardless of their ability to pay. A1

Death Sentences Overturned
A federal appeals court overturned the death sentences of more than 100 prisoners in three states because judges rather than juries had made the crucial factual determinations in sentencing them. A1

Device May Hold Robbery Clues
Investigators said the metal collar used to lock a bomb around the neck of a pizza deliveryman who died following a bank robbery near Erie, Pa., was highly unusual and could help identify its maker. A12

Sharp Increase in Poverty
The number of Americans living below the poverty line increased by more than 1.3 million last year, even though the economy technically edged out of recession during the same period, a census bureau report shows. A16

Redeveloping Toxic Land
The Environmental Protection Agency has reversed a 25-year old policy, relaxing restrictions on selling some PCB-contaminated land for redevelopment. A12

Kerry Denounces Bush
Formally declaring his candidacy for the presidential nominations, Senator John Kerry portrayed his White House campaign as a mission of courage, and berated President Bush as imposing a "radical new vision of a government" that he said favored the wealthy. A13

Power Players Point Fingers
On the eve of the first hearing on the Aug. 14 blackout, five electricity organizations involved in the power failure have sent letters to the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee seeking to implicate one another, to varying degrees, in the cascading failure. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Cruise Ship Returns to Port After Sickness at Sea
The Regal Princess cruise ship disembarked in Manhattan after two sick weeks at sea. The cruise was abbreviated after an outbreak of what the crew's medical team identified as the Norwalk virus sickened at least 300 of the ship's 1,529 passengers and 45 of its crew members. B1

Jet Makes Emergency Landing
An American Airlines jet was forced to make an emergency landing at Kennedy International Airport, striking the tarmac without its front wheel extended and terrifying the 133 people aboard. B3

9/11 Relatives Plan Protest
When trucks carrying construction materials try to enter the work site at ground zero, angry 9/11 widows and grieving relatives plan to block the road to protest plans to redevelop the site. B2

Officer Saves Woman
A man attacked and tried to rape a 33-year-old woman in Prospect Park, but was stopped by a police officer who chased him down and arrested him, the authorities said. B1

ARTS E1-9

OBITUARIES A17

SPORTS D1-7

EDUCATION B7

Professors to Teach Freshmen
The president of New York University, in an attempt to increase the attention undergraduates receive, is pressing tenured professors to spend more time with undergraduates and wants to create new categories of faculty members who are not judged by their research. B1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Vivendi Chooses NBC Merger
Vivendi Universal agreed to enter exclusive negotiations to unite its American entertainment assets with General Electric's NBC. C1

McCain Fighting Boeing Plan
Trying to block an Air Force plan to lease Boeing aerial tankers, Senator John McCain will chair a hearing to examine a lobbying campaign to fend off potential competitors. C1

S.E.C. Looks Into Chairman
The chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission sent the board of the New York Stock Exchange a letter seeking more details about the compensation of its chairman. C1

Coca-Cola Builds Ties to PTA
Parents concerned about children's consumption of soda at schools are more alarmed that a vice president at Coca-Cola's largest bottler has a seat on the PTA's board of directors. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-10

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Fuzzy economic thinking: blaming Beijing, and job czar for the jobless; endangered peace in Afghanistan; Bronx and Queens endorsements.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E2
Weather D8
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (87%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); ASSASSINATION (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); ROBBERY (77%); PRISONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); TREASON (74%); RELIGION (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); JURY TRIALS (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); BANK ROBBERY (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); ACQUITTAL (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); POOR POPULATION (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (61%); CENSUS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); POVERTY RATES (60%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (66%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



64 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Vivendi Agrees to Talks to Combine U.S.Assets With NBC 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE with ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Vivendi Universal picked a merger partner today for its entertainment assets, agreeing to enter exclusive negotiations with General Electric to unite them with NBC.
 If completed, the deal would result in the creation of NBC Universal, which would be the nation's sixth-largest media company. It would include NBC's assets -- the broadcast network, local stations, the cable channels CNBC and MSNBC and the Spanish-language network Telemundo -- and Vivendi's movie and television studios; its cable networks like USA, Bravo, and Sci-Fi; and the Universal Studios theme parks. 
 The transaction would represent a marked departure for General Electric. The company has long loathed the risky and finicky business of Hollywood; historically, it has dismissed the need to venture beyond television even as its rivals have completed mergers, with CBS joining Viacom and ABC linking up with Walt Disney. 
For Vivendi, the proposed deal represents the most definitive step yet in its effort to unwind the media empire assembled by its former chief executive, Jean-Marie Messier. The preliminary agreement also appears to dash the hopes of Edgar Bronfman Jr., the Seagram heir who had mounted his own bid to regain control of the assets his family sold Vivendi just three years ago.
Under the terms of the Vivendi-NBC preliminary accord, Vivendi would own a 20 percent stake in NBC Universal and immediately receive $3.8 billion in cash through a complex transaction involving a G.E. commitment to buy part of Vivendi's stake in the future. G.E. will also assume $1.6 billion of Vivendi's debt.
The new company would be run by G.E.'s vice chairman, Robert C. Wright, who is chairman of NBC. As a minority partner, Vivendi would have three seats on the NBC Universal board.
Despite the preliminary agreement, which ends a months-long auction that included more than half a dozen bidders, details of a final pact remain to be worked out over the next month and the deal could still collapse.
In addition to completing their own pact, Vivendi and NBC will probably have to negotiate a deal with Barry Diller, the chairman of InterActiveCorp, who owns a 7 percent stake in Vivendi's entertainment assets.
Vivendi and NBC are entering uncertain territory. The rush by media companies to consolidate -- believing that it is essential to operate on a large scale -- has had mixed results.
The America Online-Time Warner merger, for example, has been widely criticized as a failure so far. And the promised synergies from owning both television networks and television production and movie studios have not always materialized. Disney acknowledged last year that the lackluster results at ABC were in part a result of an overdependence on homegrown television shows, from its Touchstone Television arm.
Mr. Wright, who has been one of the biggest proponents of the deal within G.E., said during an interview today, "There is no reason this shouldn't succeed." 
While he acknowledged that the company had little experience making movies, he scoffed at the perceived risks of the business. "The studio is not such a frightening issue," he said, pointing out that Universal Studios "is on a bit of a roll." (Its hits this summer include "Seabiscuit" and "2 Fast 2 Furious.") 
He seemed slightly more concerned about the prospect of owning Universal's theme parks. "We don't purport to have any experience managing theme parks," he said, acknowledging that an industry slump has made owning the parks "like being in the airline business."
Asked about the chances the talks could collapse, given a prominent disclaimer in the companies' news release that said as much and G.E.'s reputation as a tough negotiator, he deadpanned, "It's 50-50." Then he interjected, "No, no no."
Jean-Rene Fourtou, Vivendi's chairman, welcomed the deal in Paris, calling it the "beginning of a new era." He said it would transform the company into one "with stronger assets and a healthier financial base."
Mr. Fourtou succeeded Mr. Messier 14 months ago when Vivendi ran out of cash after a series of costly acquisitions and share buybacks. After unexpectedly large losses at the company, Mr. Fourtou pledged to begin unwinding the media empire assembled by Mr. Messier, promising to sell assets worth $16 billion by the end of 2004. 
Vivendi's decision to accept preliminarily a deal that leaves it with a major stake in the business is a reversal of the company's stated intention to sell the entire company for cash.
"Initially, Vivendi is not getting anywhere close to what they think the assets are worth," said Harold Vogel, an independent analyst who follows media companies. "This is a play on how the stock market and the world economy will grow over the next three to five years."
A number of other media giants, including Liberty Media, Viacom, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Comcast, expressed varying degrees of interest in acquiring the properties. But all of them eventually dropped out because they thought the price Vivendi was seeking -- $14 billion -- was too high.
In France, reaction to the drawn-out negotiation has been muted. But SophieL'Helias, an adviser to investor groups here, praised Mr. Fourtou both for his efforts to "make sure Vivendi investors get a better deal" and for the choice of G.E. "They're getting paper, but paper with a company with a reputable track record," she said.
If the outcry in France has been less than might be expected, it is because of the remoteness of Vivendi's American assets, and because Mr. Fourtou has succeeded in placing most of the assets he has sold, like the Houghton Mifflin publishing business, in safe hands.
The greatest outcry came when Vivendi tampered with Canal Plus, which plays a crucial role in French cultural policy by financing many film and television productions.
If Mr. Fourtou has been criticized in France for one thing, it is his supposed lack of a vision for what comes afterward. Elie Cohen, a leading economist and director of research at the National Center for Scientific Research, said the original idea of Mr. Fourtou appeared to have been the reconstruction of the old Compagnie Generale des Eaux, the water and waste group that Mr. Messier transformed in the 1990's through his acquisitions and then renamed Vivendi.
Mr. Fourtou was backed in this by Claude Bebear, the powerful chairman of the AXA insurance group, Mr. Cohen said.
Generale des Eaux was involved mainly in water and waste, telephones and cable television, but a shortage of cash forced Mr. Fourtou to shed Vivendi's holdings in its waste and water business, now known as Veolia Environnement. Moreover, last year he was forced to spend 4 billion euros unexpectedly after the Vodafone group made a hostile takeover bid for Cegetel.
Mr. Fourtou has said that Cegetel and its lucrative cellphone unit, SFR, as well as Canal Plus, the French pay television business that Vivendi owns, would form the core of any future Vivendi. But Mr. Cohen said Vivendi might be facing total liquidation. "The great role of Messier," he said, "was in exploding the group into its constituent parts. And Fourtou is the man who is finishing the job."
Mr. Fourtou, at a news conference after the board meeting, said Vivendi was considering splitting the company in two, one company for its telephone activities and another for the remaining entertainment assets, like music, video games and Canal Plus.
"We have two groups, telecoms and entertainment," he said at the news conference. "Should they remain together? I will allow myself a few months to answer that crucial question."
News of the agreement was met with enthusiasm by investors. Shares of G.E. rose 87 cents, to $30.44. Vivendi's shares closed in Paris at 16.6 euros, up 0.66 euro.
Citigroup and Goldman, Sachs are serving as financial advisers to Vivendi. Weil, Gotshal & Manges is serving as legal counsel to Vivendi Universal. Credit Suisse First Boston and AGM Partners are serving as financial advisers to General Electric and NBC. Debevoise & Plimpton is serving as legal counsel to NBC.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day yesterday about Vivendi Universal's agreement to enter exclusive negotiations with General Electric on a merger of their entertainment assets misidentified the parent of the Bravo cable channel. It is NBC, not Vivendi.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean-Rene Fourtou, chairman of Vivendi, welcomed the deal, calling it the "beginning of a new era," giving the company "stronger assets and a healthier financial base." (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)(pg. C1); Robert C. Wright, the vice chairman of General Electric, wouldrun NBC Universal. (Photo by Nancy Kaszerman/Zuma Press)(pg. C2) Chart: "Putting It Together"General Electric and Vivendi Universal have strong reasons for making a deal. G.E. would gain control of two successful cable channels and the hit "Law and Order" shows. Vivendi would get some much needed cash. Film2003, through Sept. 1 STUDIO RANKINGS: Buena VistaBOX OFFICE: $1,220 millionMARKET SHARE: 20.0% STUDIO RANKINGS: SonyBOX OFFICE: 851MARKET SHARE: 14.0 STUDIO RANKINGS: UniversalBOX OFFICE: 755MARKET SHARE: 12.4 STUDIO RANKINGS: Warner Bros.BOX OFFICE: 740MARKET SHARE: 12.1 STUDIO RANKINGS: 20th Century FoxBOX OFFICE: 649MARKET SHARE: 10.6 UNIVERSAL FILMS Bruce AlmightyBOX OFFICE: $241 millionRANK: 4 The HulkBOX OFFICE: 132RANK: 10 2 Fast 2 FuriousBOX OFFICE: 127RANK: 11 SeabiscuitBOX OFFICE: 105RANK: 14 American WeddingBOX OFFICE: 98RANK: 20 Johnny EnglishBOX OFFICE: 28RANK: 54 Life of David GaleBOX OFFICE: 20RANK: 64 TVPrime-time average for Sept. 2002 - May 2003 season NETWORK RANKINGS: CBSVIEWERS: 12.6 million NETWORK RANKINGS: NBCVIEWERS: 11.7 NETWORK RANKINGS: FoxVIEWERS: 10.0 NETWORK RANKINGS: ABCVIEWERS: 10.0 NETWORK RANKINGS: WBVIEWERS: 4.1 NBC SHOWS FriendsVIEWERS: 14.9 millionRANK: 2 E.R.VIEWERS: 14.0RANK: 4 Law and Order*VIEWERS: 12.5RANK: 9 Will and GraceVIEWERS: 11.7RANK: 12 ScrubsVIEWERS: 10.9RANK: 15 Law and Order: SVU*VIEWERS: 10.7RANK: 16 Law and Order: CI*VIEWERS: 10.3RANK: 18 CablePrimetime average, through Aug. 28 CHANNELS IN THE DEAL: USA+VIEWERS: 1.9 million CHANNELS IN THE DEAL: Sci-Fi+VIEWERS: 1.1 CHANNELS IN THE DEAL: MSNBCVIEWERS: 0.5 CHANNELS IN THE DEAL: BravoVIEWERS: 0.4 CHANNELS IN THE DEAL: CNBCVIEWERS: 0.2 *Created by Universal+Owned by Universal (Sources by Nielsen EDI; Nielsen Media Research)(pg. C1) Chart: "Narrowing the Gap"A deal combining the NBC division of G.E. and Vivendi Universal Entertainment would create a company, NBC Universal, closer in size to the world's biggest media companies. 2002 revenues, except for News Corporation, which is for year ended June 30, 2003 AOL Time Warner: $40.96 billionDisney: $25.33Viacom: $24.61Bertelsmann: $19.21*News Corporation: $17.47NBC Universal: $13.73 *Based on exchange rate on Dec. 31, 2002 (Sources by Company reports)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MERGERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); EXECUTIVES (67%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (98%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%); VIACOM INC (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (52%); AOL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; NBC UNIVERSAL; INTERACTIVECORP 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (98%); VIV (BIT) (98%); GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (56%); IACI (NASDAQ) (52%); AOL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%) SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY; SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: EDGAR BRONFMAN JR (92%); BARRY DILLER (58%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; MESSIER, JEAN-MARIE; BRONFMAN, EDGAR JR; DILLER, BARRY; WRIGHT, ROBERT C (NBC EXEC); FOURTOU, JEAN-RENE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



65 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1499 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE HOME FRONT; 
Backing the Mission in Iraq, But Pondering Its Outcome

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: HUDSON, Fla., Aug. 29 

 BODY:
Not long after President Bush declared an end to the major fighting in Iraq, Jessica Porter hatched an ambitious plan: She would make a quilt for every family of an American soldier who had died in the war. There were about 150 back then, and Jessica, a resolute 19-year-old, had no doubt that she and a few friends could get thejob done.
 Miss Porter has been sewing until her hands ache, but she is not nearly fast enough to keep up with the death toll. Troop fatalities have climbed all summer, and this week the number of soldier deaths after May 1, when Mr. Bush said the significant combat was over, surpassed the 138 who were killed fighting the war. Yet Miss Porter has not given up, just as she has not soured on the dangerous, indefinite occupation of Iraq. 
 "We have to stay there as long as it takes and take care of it once and for all," said Miss Porter, who shares a house in this town north of Tampa with her parents and small mountains of fabric. "No one wants another Sept. 11." 
In and around Tampa -- home to the United States Central Command headquarters, as well as to hundreds of troops still deployed in the Middle East and thousands of military families -- many people share Miss Porter's views, even as they mourn the deaths of American soldiers, at least five of whom are from the area.
If people in the military community around Tampa are troubled, it is not chiefly about the war effort or the stream of bad news from Iraq. Their main frustration is the economy. Such local sentiments echo recent national polls, which show that while Mr. Bush's approval ratings have slipped over the summer, Americans are generally far more concerned about the economy than the continued involvement in Iraq.
In Florida, which still has 2,000 National Guardsmen in the Middle East, a survey conducted in late July by Mason-Dixon Polling and Research found that 57 percent of residents approved of the Iraq invasion.
James Smith, an instructor for the Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps at Brandon High School, about 15 miles east of Tampa, is solidly among the approving. But while Mr. Smith, a retired Army sergeant, might not admit it to his students, he said he was also a little afraid.
"I'm concerned about the uncertainties," said Sergeant Smith, 48, who has been awaiting word from his cousin, Kenneth Johnson, an Army specialist in Tikrit, Iraq. "You've got to ask yourself: How long can you keep your people spread out so far?"
Sergeant Smith, like several others interviewed here, said he thought that other countries, not the United States, should send reinforcements to Iraq. "We can be the lead -- we are the lead -- but we can't conquer it by ourselves," he said. 
This afternoon on Bayshore Drive, Patty Shriver was having similar thoughts, even as she waved a flag alongside a dozen other Tampa residents who call themselves the Bayshore Patriots. The group has waved flags during the Friday rush hour ever since Sept. 11.
They are an optimistic bunch, but today, Mrs. Shriver looked a bit tired. Her son, who is still in Iraq with the 101st Airborne Division, called two weeks ago to say his unit had been given a new mission; he might not be able to contact her for months. Asked how she felt about the war now, Mrs. Shriver sighed. "Sometimes I get to where I think there's never going to be an end to this," she said, "never a point where it's going to be O.K. for them to come home."
Just then, Peggy Chiasson walked up with her son, Cpl. Michael Chiasson, newly back from Iraq. Corporal Chiasson was on the front lines in March, rolling through the Rumaila oil fields and into Baghdad. Morale was good when he left Baghdad last week, he said, because "people are starting to see what they're working for over there."
Even so, he added, other nations should send reinforcements, because the American and British troops were "spread so thin."
In a quiet neighborhood of Tampa, Maj. Andy Stephan, an Air Force reservist who returned from the war in late April after five months, said that continuing the occupation was the right thing to do. 
Major Stephan, who is looking for work after taking a furlough from a commercial airliner, said he did not understand why some troops in Iraq were complaining.
"I have real heartburn about the people you see on television griping about how they're stuck over there," Major Stephan, 37, said as he watched his daughter, Emma, 2, play in their living room. "They talk about 'Everything bad is happening,' but a tremendous amount of change has already occurred."
"Six months from now it will be very different and safer over there," he added, "because we're making it more stable."
Major Stephan's job with the 301st Rescue Squadron was to pluck downed flight crews or special-operations units from behind enemy lines. His unit flew eight missions.
He acknowledged that he was relieved to be back home, watching after Emma most days while his wife, Diane, a pediatrician, works. Unlike the troops who fought in Vietnam, most of whom were single, many soldiers sent to Iraq -- especially reservists and guardsmen -- are married with children.
That made a big difference, Major Stephan said, because he missed Emma and Diane, and because Diane was worried for him.
"It's definitely an older force now," he said, "and there are some things you want to come back to."
Lance Cpl. Kyle Locke of the Fourth Marine Assault Amphibian Battalion never made it to Iraq. Unlike most of his unit, which shipped out in January and returned in June and July, he was among a handful tapped to stay home.
That meant Corporal Locke had to visit the parents of Lance Cpl. Andrew Aviles, one of the youngest members of his unit, and tell them that their 18-year-old son had been killed by enemy fire on April 7. 
"That was the hardest part," Corporal Locke said, staring hard at a wall while Antonio Morales, his barber, went to work on his crew cut. "But you get used to it."
Mr. Morales said that the only thing he hated about the occupation was how it had slowed business at his shop, just outside a gate at MacDill Air Force Base.
"Terrorism doesn't end in Iraq," he said. "I hope we invade Iran."
"Maybe Pakistan," Corporal Locke added.
Corporal Locke, 23, said he enlisted at 17, adding that he would re-enlist for another four years in October. He likes his job maintaining amphibious assault vehicles, and hopes his chance to fight terrorism up close will come soon. Members of his unit who returned from Iraq this summer did not seem traumatized, he said, though he added that they were not inclined to discuss what happened there. "They saw some things out there they probably don't want to talk about," he said.
Back in Hudson, Jessica Porter showed off a photograph of an uncle she never met, a Green Beret who died in a helicopter crash in Vietnam. Yes, Vietnam turned into a quagmire, she said, but that was because politicians and protests interfered and kept the American military from getting its job done. 
Though Miss Porter's mother, Joanne, knows the devastation of having a brother killed in action, she, too, believes the troops should stay in Iraq. Should her own son, Jared, now 17, get drafted, "I'll say, 'You need to go,' " said Mrs. Porter, who is helping her daughter stitch quilts.
Miss Porter, who makes Civil War-period dresses for women taking part in war re-enactments, probably thinks about the American dead in Iraq more than just about anyone who did not know them. She logs onto the Internet every fewdays to check an updated list of casualties, and reads articles about how they died and who they were.
And while the American casualties over all have been fairly light for a war, she has noticed that more reservists and guardsmen are dying now, members of small, relatively unknown units instead of the front-line soldiers who came from the large bases like Fort Hood and Fort Bragg at the start of the war. 
Fourteen quilts have been completed, with 16 more in the works. Amid all Miss Porter's fabric -- one bolt with the Pledge of Allegiance stamped all over it, another with little blue stars, another with burgundy stripes -- she thinks of the soldier as she starts out on each quilt, designing it with his family in mind.
For the widow of Sgt. Michael Bitz, who has twin infants, a baby quilt with four red stars; for the mother of Specialist Brandon Tobler of the Army Reserve, who lives in Oregon, a double-stuffed quilt because Miss Porter figured it was cold out there.
She is not quite sure how her Uncle Joe -- Joseph John Slivka Jr. is how his name reads on the Vietnam Memorial in Washington -- died. Mrs. Porter was told that the helicopter her brother was flying in malfunctioned and that apparently he drowned. Until last week, she had not even told her daughter that Uncle Joe did covert operations.
"I can't believe you didn't tell me!" Miss Porter exclaimed.
"I block a lot of it out of my mind," Mrs. Porter murmured before they headed back to the sewing room, hoping to catch up with the growing list of the dead.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jessica Porter, 19, of Hudson, Fla., vowed that she and her friends would make a quilt for every family who lost a relative in Iraq. Though the deaths have climbed during the American occupation, she is undeterred. (Photo by David Kadlubowski for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Antonio Morales cut Lance Cpl. Kyle Locke's hair and swapped thoughts on the war on terrorism. (Photo by David Kadlubowski for The New York Times)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); QUILTS & QUILTING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); MILITARY TRAINING (72%); MILITARY BASES (71%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%) GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) IRAQ; FLORIDA; TAMPA (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003 



66 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Concerto for Orchestra and Hopeful City; 
Renewal Project In Detroit Blends A Concert Hall And a School

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KINZER 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
If one absent-minded real estate developer had not forgotten his Jackson Browne cassettes on a business trip 12 years ago, one of the country's most extraordinary urban and cultural development projects might never have happened. But forget he did, and partly as a result the Detroit Symphony Orchestra will move in October back into a renovated version of the hall it occupied during its glory days in the 1930's. There will also be a large new wing to provide space for student orchestras, jazz concerts, dances and other events. 
 The $60 million restoration of Orchestra Hall, which was built in 1919 and attracted performers from Enrico Caruso to Duke Ellington, is part of an unusual rejuvenation strategy. In the mid-1990's, under the guidance of that developer, Peter D. Cummings, a member of the Detroit Symphony board, the orchestra began buying plots of vacant and underused land around Orchestra Hall, near the city's center. On one plot the orchestra built an office building that produced $1.5 million in rental income last year. 
 In its most inspired step, the board arranged to donate a large chunk of its land to the city on condition that a new Detroit High School for the Fine, Performing and Communication Arts be built there. The $122.5 million high school is under construction, and after it opens in 2005, its 1,200 students will study in closer contact with symphony musicians than almost any students anywhere. Detroit Public Television will open a studio there, and there will also be a 50,000-watt AM radio station.
The new school will officially be a merger of two existing ones, both of which are now struggling. The new school is expected to be so desirable that suburban students will apply, something unknown in Detroit for many years.
Mr. Cummings has been the project's driving force, but by his own admission he did not even like classical music until he had an epiphany during a 1991 vacation in Florence.
"It's a bizarre story," he said. "I'm a runner, and I run with headphones on, so I can listen to what I call aging rockers, like Elton John, the Eagles and Jackson Browne. But on this trip I forgot my running shoes and my cassettes. I found a place to buy new shoes, but no cassettes. Finally I found a kiosk on the Piazza del Duomo that had some, classical music only. I blindly pulled down four of them. They turned out to be Mozart piano concertos, and when I put them on, it was like I had never heard them before. I was absolutely bedazzled. Why and how it happened I'll never know."
Mr. Cummings was then moving to Detroit, his wife's hometown, from Florida, where he ran a development company. Soon after his arrival here, he was named to the symphony's board. In 1999 he became its chairman. Mr. Cummings's business experience and his new passion for classical music made him a logical candidate for the board, but there was also another attraction. His father-in-law is the oil tycoon and philanthropist Max M. Fisher, one of the Detroit area's richest men.
It was probably inevitable that other board members would ask Mr. Cummings to approach his father-in-law to help pay for the reconstruction of Orchestra Hall. But when he did, Mr. Fisher was unimpressed. He professed little interest in culture and said he would prefer to give his money to projects aimed at the city's physical and educational revival.
Prodded by Mr. Fisher and by the mayor at the time, Dennis W. Archer, who told orchestra directors that they were "not thinking on a big enough scale," Mr. Cummings began to develop a grander plan.
"The thesis was that in many ways the challenges and problems the Detroit Symphony was facing were urban challenges, neighborhood challenges," he said. "We've gone from being an arts organization focused inward to a cultural citizen looking outward. We're creating a hive of activity here, and the more we have, the more it will beget."
The prospect of a high school that could become a national model of how to integrate performing arts with communication technology has sent a surge of excitement through the city's long-suffering school system. It also persuaded Mr. Fisher to donate $5 million.
"It's ambitious on a scale that's unparalleled in the world as far as I know," said Robert Francis, the school system's executive director for capital improvement. "We're going to be giving inner-city kids opportunities that very few kinds anywhere have, no matter how wealthy or suburban they may be."
The Detroit Symphony has a fabled history and played for millions on national radio broadcasts during the 1930's and 40's, but like many orchestras it had fallen on hard times. Financial troubles forced it to leave Orchestra Hall in 1939 for a succession of sites, including the cavernous and acoustically dreadful Ford Hall, which was its home from 1956 to 1989. It ran up multimillion-dollar deficits and had trouble attracting audiences.
In 1970 a bassoonist, Paul Ganson, discovered that the boarded-up Orchestra Hall was about to be torn down to make room for an Italian restaurant. He rallied the orchestra and the broader community in a campaign to save it, and that campaign turned out to be the forerunner of the grand scheme that is now unfolding.
In recent years the symphony has made special efforts to immerse itself in the life of the surrounding neighborhood. At one special concert it thrilled an almost entirely black audience while accompanying an 800-voice gospel choir. In October it will play in the lobby of a new software company that is opening its doors here.
Whether even this degree of community involvement can save both the orchestra and the city, however, is still uncertain.
"Conditions in the city of Detroit are pretty poor, and this project isn't by any means a silver bullet," said Robin Boyle, a professor of urban planning at Wayne State University here. "It's a positive sign, because it shows a realization that the city can't keep relying on sports stadiums and casinos for economic sustenance. But when the new Orchestra Hall opens, we'll still be facing population decline, job loss, high levels of vacancy, insufficient tax base and everything else."
Revival of the area around Orchestra Hall has already begun, with cafes, boutiques, loft apartments and even a small hotel springing up where a few years ago there was nothing but vacant land and the burned hulks of buildings. Still, planners are holding their applause.
"Without a long-term commitment, the whole project is in danger of withering," Mr. Boyle said. "Projects like these require a great deal of buttressing and supporting. If other developments come in alongside, and if the city focuses its limited resources on improving the area, then we may one day look back on this as a great success. Otherwise I'm not so sure."
The problems that the Detroit Symphony faced as it began this project were comparable to those that confront many orchestras around the country. Dozens of factors have been cited for their declining appeal, from the disappearance of classical music on the radio to the chasm that divides American youth culture from the courtly European societies that produced Mozart and Beethoven.
While many have taken steps to attract young audiences, none have gone so far as to help build a high school next door to its concert hall. Nor are many so fully convinced that their success depends on revitalizing the entire surrounding neighborhood.
"Every major city in America has a symphony orchestra, a public school system and a public TV station, but no city has put them together in a way that builds the orchestra's future, educates students and contributes to the community the way it's being done here," said Emil J. Kang, the orchestra's president and executive director. "We're trying to be truly the Detroit Symphony, not just a symphony that happens to be in Detroit."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A plastic bag protects a chandelier as the renovations near completion at Orchestra Hall in Detroit. (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. E1); Peter D. Cummings, below left, was a driving force behind the restoration of Orchestra Hall, above. The Detroit Symphony, which left the hall in 1939, is about to move back into a complex that will include a school. (Photo by Associated Press); (Photo by Andrew Sacks for The New York Times)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); POP & ROCK (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (64%); SUBURBS (50%) MUSIC; ORCHESTRA HALL (DETROIT); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TELEVISION; RADIO 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA; DETROIT PUBLIC TELEVISION 

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (55%) KINZER, STEPHEN; CUMMINGS, PETER D 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) DETROIT (MICH)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



67 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: THE POP LIFE; 
Eclectic Mix of Bands, And Likewise of Fans

BYLINE:  By NEIL STRAUSS 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
In a time when music festivals, radio-station concerts and package tours all seem to depend on the same small subset of bands to fill their seats, the lineup of the Unlimited Sunshine Tour seems like a joke at first glance. 
 There is Cheap Trick, the late-70's power-rock band known for its impeccable melodies and atrocious fashion sense. Then there's Charlie Louvin, the country, gospel and bluegrass singer whose best-known songs warned against the dangers of alcohol, Satan and atomic power. And the headliner is Cake, the laconic 90's slow-groove rock band whose members hadn't even been born when Mr. Louvin was singing about atomic power. Finally, the Detroit Cobras, a garage-rock cover band, and the Hackensaw Boys, a punk-tinged Americana-roots band. 
 Individually these are all strong acts, but together they are a concert promoter's nightmare. The audiences for most of these acts hardly overlap. It seems doubtful, for example, that a Cheap Trick fan would want to listen to Mr. Louvin singing, "I like the Christian life."
Yet fans at the tour's first stop were remarkably open-minded, at least according to Mr. Louvin, who spoke by telephone from backstage after the tour's kickoff show on Tuesday at the Tabernacle in Atlanta. 
This tour, Mr. Louvin said, has been one of the few times he has been nervous about performing. "I didn't know how it would be," he said, because most audience members were unfamiliar with his music and his legacy. "But it was absolutely great. The audience reaction was at least 120 percent."
Backstage with Mr. Louvin was John McCrea, the singer, songwriter and guitarist in Cake who organized the tour. (It is scheduled to stop at the Roseland Ballroom in Midtown Manhattan on Saturday night.) 
"I always used to make mix tapes when I was a teenager, and this feels similar," Mr. McCrea said of putting together the acts for the tour. His first Sunshine Unlimited roadshow last year was equally diverse, with a high-quality lineup that included the Flaming Lips, De La Soul and Kinky.
"I don't feel like this particular bill is gratuitously eclectic," Mr. McCrea said of this year's assortment. "There's a through line." All the acts, he continued, share a "geometry of classic-style songwriting." 
This is particularly true of the senior act on the tour, Mr. Louvin, who says he is "as old as Methuselah now." (He is actually a spry 76.) And it is also true of the two youngest bands on the bill, the Detroit Cobras, who perform versions of songs by pioneering blues and R&B singers, and the Hackensaw Boys, who find inspiration in the old-time string music of the same era. 
For a person with such diverse taste, Mr. McCrea's own music is surprisingly focused. Cake works within strict musical parameters. Its arrangements are minimal, its rhythms spacious, its melodies exacting, its singing low and wry. One sometimes wonders if Mr. McCrea ever wants to break free of his sound and just belt out a song like Gloria Gaynor, whose "I Will Survive" became a hit in a new incarnation when Cake performed a downbeat, near-monotone version of it.
"It's not appropriate for me or who I am musically," Mr. McCrea said of the prospect of cutting loose. "Our band is about restraint and economy and downsizing."
Like his music, Mr. McCrea speaks slowly and clearly, measuring each word before he says it. 
Unlike other popular rock bands, which tend to have a busy, portentous sound, Cake's aesthetic was not to reach for the stars but to reach "as far as I can jump," Mr. McCrea said.
In keeping with such modest ambitions, Cake has not released an album in two years. "It doesn't seem like a good environment to release an album in," Mr. McCrea said. "I've sort of been stalling and dragging my feet." 
Nonetheless, he has been writing songs, one of which, "Wheels," he plans to perform on some tour dates. He said that he hoped to have a new album out in the spring.
The case is made to Mr. McCrea that releasing albums consistently, as the Beatles did, can be integral to growing and evolving as an artist. He disagreed.
"My perspective is that there's for some reason a paradigm in which we think of artists' having to evolve over a period of time," he said. "Where are they all evolving to? And what are they going to do when they get there? And is that evolution more important than taking each song and making it what it wants to be in terms of production value and arrangements?"
No wonder, then, that the hero of Cake's song "The Distance" is a driver who is still making his way around a racetrack -- "pacing and plotting the course" -- even though every other driver has long since crossed the finish line, the stands have emptied and day has turned to night.
Musically, this seems to be Cake's goal: to have the longevity of the driver in "The Distance" or of Mr. Louvin, whose first rock-'n'-roll-related bill featured a young Elvis Presley as an opening act.
Music historians have said that the Louvin Brothers -- the seminal country act featuring the close-harmony singing of Mr. Louvin and his younger brother, Ira -- broke up around 1963 because their music was pushed aside by rock 'n' roll. It is fitting to see Mr. Louvin, whose music helped inspire the country-rock boom of the early 70's, capturing the hearts of a modern rock audience once more 40 years later.
But Mr. Louvin had a different explanation for the breakup. 
"It wasn't because of rock 'n' roll; it was because of liquor," he said, referring to his brother, who died in a car crash in 1964. "I didn't know how to handle a drunk. My brother was a professional drunk." 
Mr. Louvin said that he decided to leave the band "before we went down the tubes together."
Mr. Louvin said he was looking forward to the tour's final stop on Sept. 21 in Hollywood, where he has never performed.
After the tour, Mr. McCrea said he wanted to continue pursuing his longtime dream of starting a television show, "Freedom of Speech." In perfect Hollywood-pitch fashion he described the show as " 'Politically Incorrect' meets 'The Gong Show' meets 'American Idol.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: John McCrea, left, and Xan McCurdy of Cake, in Brooklyn last year. (Photo by Rahav Segev)(pg. E1); A poster for the Unlimited Sunshine Tour, with acts ranging from country to rock. (pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (92%); MUSIC (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); TOUR PACKAGES (58%) MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: CHEAP TRICK (MUSIC GROUP); CAKE (MUSIC GROUP); DETROIT COBRAS (MUSIC GROUP); HACKENSAW BOYS (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL; LOUVIN, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



68 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Koch and City Workers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Bloomberg and City Unions Draw the Lines, Far Apart" (news article, Aug. 19):
 You write: "John V. Lindsay's tenure was defined by strikes, the first one hitting only hours after he was sworn in. 
Edward I. Koch and Rudolph W. Giuliani started off talking tough, but ended up awarding hefty raises to municipal workers that left the city in a bind when recessions hit." 
 An analysis of the labor contracts entered into during the 12 years of my administration establishes that over this period, civilian employees received general wage increases of 94.9 percent; uniform force employees, 110.7 percent, for a weighted average of approximately 98.8 percent. 
Over the same period, the Consumer Price Index increased by 104 percent, and private-sector salaries in the Northeast increased by 103 percent.
During the Koch administration, wages and salaries of city employees increased more slowly than wages and salaries in the private sector.

EDWARD I. KOCH
New York, Sept. 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (68%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%) KOCH, EDWARD I; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



69 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: China Agrees to Free Trading in Its Currency, but Not Now 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and his Chinese counterparts agreed today that China should eventually allow its currency to trade freely on international markets. But Beijing rejected calls to move quickly in that direction, saying it might cause financial instability in China and abroad.
 Mr. Snow faces political pressure to push China to raise the value of its currency, the yuan. Some Democratic presidential candidates and industry groups have argued that China keeps the currency deliberately undervalued to promote exports to America, which they say has caused job losses in the United States. 
 Last year China had the largest trade surplus with the United States of any country, $103 billion, though it runs a modest global trade surplus. 
Mr. Snow left China today after a two-day visit without a specific timetable for addressing the currency issue. But he said Chinese officials assured him that they would take "interim steps" to loosen restrictions on the country's tightly controlled financial system. 
"On the currency issue in particular, I was encouraged to hear a reaffirmation of China's longstanding goal to move toward greater flexibility," Mr. Snow said. "I was assured that interim policy steps are now being taken and progress in this area will continue." 
China's central bank governor, Zhou Xiaochuan, struck a conciliatory tone with Mr. Snow in lengthy comments released by state media. He promised that the value of the yuan would eventually be determined by market forces rather than being fixed at 8.3 to the dollar, as it has been for almost a decade.
Mr. Zhou also outlined a variety of measures that he said would "allow the market to play a bigger role" in China's financial system. Among them are new regulations to allow foreigners to invest in yuan-denominated securities, and corresponding rules that allow some domestic investors to buy securities abroad. Mr. Snow said the discussion also included ways to make it easier for Chinese individuals and companies to buy American stocks and bonds, helping to recycle some of China's export earnings into American investments. 
Mr. Zhou said China planned to encourage companies to invest more overseas. Exporters will also soon be allowed to keep more of the foreign currency they earn, which could prompt them to import more goods. Beijing also announced new rules on the amount of foreign currency Chinese tourists and business executives can takeon trips abroad. 
Finally, Mr. Zhou also said for the first time that China would consider revising the pegged currency system to link the yuan to other currencies as well as the dollar. Because the dollar has declined against many other currencies this year, any such move to link the yuan to a broader basket of currencies could prompt at least a modest rise in the value of the yuan against the dollar. 
Chinese state media have trumpeted the decision to stick by the currency system, at least for now, as a sign that the government can resist what one newspaper called "international browbeating." If implemented fully, the steps Mr. Zhou outlined would amount to a concerted attempt to respond to record inflows of foreign currency to China without remaking the currency system. 
Some measures have been under consideration for weeks or months. But the fact that they were highlighted during Mr. Snow's visit represented a clear effort to address American complaints and channel some of China's recent financial gains into overseas markets, analysts said. 
"China authorities are sensitive to the politics of this issue in the United States and want to be viewed as responding," Andy Xie, chief Asia economist of Morgan Stanley, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BONDS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANKING IN CHINA (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); EXPORT PROMOTION (71%); SECURITIES LAW (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; SNOW, JOHN W (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



70 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Index Declines 

BYLINE:  By BloombergNews 

 BODY:
An index of applications for mortgages fell for the fourth consecutive week, to the lowest in more than a year, as rising loan rates discouraged refinancing, an industry report showed. 
 The Mortgage Bankers Association of America's measure of mortgage applications dropped 1.6 percent, to 628.7 last week, the lowest since June 14, 2002. The refinancing index declined 8.6 percent, to 1,981.5. 
 The refinancing gauge has declined 80 percent since reaching a high at the end of May, the biggest three-month drop since record-keeping began in 1990. 
The mortgage group's purchase index increased 5.5 percent, to 396.1 from 375.5. A record of 460.5 was set in the final week of May. 
The association is based in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (88%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES 

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%) MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSN OF AMERICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



71 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Construction and Business Conditions Picking Up, Reports Say 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Business conditions perked up in the summer and construction spending climbed in July to the highest level since the beginning of the year, according to government reports released today. They offered promising signs for the economy's anticipated rebound in the second half.
 Reports from the Federal Reserve's 12 districts "indicate that the economy continued to improve in July and August," according to the Fed's latest snapshot of business activity. "In some districts, improvement occurred in selected sectors, and in others it was broad-based," the Federal Reserve said. 
 The Fed, in its so-called beige book, added that even in the Dallas district, where activity remained generally weak, business contacts were more optimistic.
The effect of the nation's worst blackout was muted thus far, the Fed indicated. Although business contacts said a comprehensive assessment at this point was premature, "the effects were generally small," the Fed survey said. "Even where firms were closed for several days, affected contacts suggest they are not anticipating difficulties in making up for lost production or shipments."
In a second report, the value of construction projects under way came in at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $879.8 billion in July, representing a modest 0.2 percent increase from June's level, the Commerce Department said.
Although the increase in July was not as big as the 0.5 percent rise that economists were predicting, the June performance turned out even better than the government previously estimated. Revised figures show that construction spending was up by a brisk 0.7 percent in June from May, compared with the earlier estimate of 0.3 percent.
The pace of construction spending in July was the highest level since January, when such spending stood at $883.2 billion on an annualized basis.
Recent economic reports have flashed signals that the economy is healing and on track to stage a material recovery in the second half of this year. Consumers are spending, manufacturing appears on the mend and businesses are slowly increasing investment, although they are cautious about hiring.
In the Fed's latest survey, 10 of its 12 districts reported increases in manufacturing activity. The exceptions were Dallas, which showed little change, and Richmond, Va., where factory activity weakened.
The construction spending report showed that spending by private builders on all types of projects rose by a solid 0.5 percent in July, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $664.2 billion, the highest level since March.
Private builders had gains in residential projects as well as communications and power sites. Those gains were tempered by weakness elsewhere, including declines in spending on hotels and motels and office buildings.
"The long nightmare of double-digit declines in private, nonresidential construction seems to have ended, but it is still a little early to say the upward climb had taken hold," said Ken Simonson, chief economist at Associated General Contractors of America.
Spending by the government on big public works projects, meanwhile, dropped 0.4 percent in July, to a rate of $215.7 billion. The government cut spending on schools, highways and streets. That outweighed increased spending on other projects including public safety sites and hospitals and other health care buildings.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Economy Improved in Some Regions"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis -- Continued growth was reported in residential real estate, consumer spending, manufacturing and agriculture. San Francisco (Includes Alaska and Hawaii) -- The region's economy remained sluggish. Small growth was reported in manufacturing. Retail sales were flat. Chicago -- A weak labor market contributed to sluggish economic activity. Manufacturing improved only slightly. Dallas -- Growth remained slow. Bad weather conditions continued to hurt agriculture. Drilling for oil and natural gas increased rapidly and then slowed. Kansas City, Mo. -- The economy improved slightly. Layoff announcements slowed and manufacturing improved. St. Louis -- The region's economy was still weak. Manufacturing was sluggish, leading to plant closings and layoffs. Cleveland -- Many businesses had modest growth. Manufacturers reported steady or rising sales. New home sales grew. Boston -- Retailers and manufacturers had increased demand. Commercial real estate stabilized, but businesses remained cautious. New York -- The August blackout had minimal effect on the overall economy. Retail sales were close to forecasts Philadelphia -- Businesses predict slow and steady growth. Manufacturers expect more orders. Retailers expect sales to rise slowly. Richmond, Va. -- The economy had modest growth. Manufacturing improved. Home building and sales were flat to slightly up. Atlanta -- Economic activity was mixed. The market for single-family housing showed strength. Manufacturing remained weak. Map of the United States highlights the Federal Reserve's 12 districts. (Source by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); POWER FAILURES (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); PUBLIC WORKS 

COMPANY: CONSTRUCTION & BUSINESS BANK (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



72 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Big Investors Urged to Unite For Reforms 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
The New York State comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, proposed yesterday that big investors should work together to try to prevent more corporate scandals like those that hurt shareholders and employees of Enron and WorldCom.
 At an annual conference of institutional investors in California, Mr. Hevesi called for the creation of the National Coalition for Corporate Reform, which would try to influence the behavior of companies through proxy voting, litigation and lobbying. He said the supporters of his idea included the treasurers of California and North Carolina and labor leaders like the presidents of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. 
 But Mr. Hevesi, who oversees $90 billion in retirement funds, said in an interview that he had not yet sought or received backing from any large mutual fund companies like Fidelity Investments or the Vanguard Group. Most big fund companies have been reticent to join public battles with corporate executives or directors, blunting the effect of efforts by shareholder activists.
Mr. Hevesi said he hoped they would join after hearing his presentation yesterday to the Council of Institutional Investors.
"The history of scandal in America is that after a few months or half a year, the public turns their attention elsewhere," Mr. Hevesi said. "That's why scandals are repeated."
Investors cannot afford to ignore corporate governance, he said, because the cost of major scandals has been too high. Citing a study by the Brookings Institution as a model, he estimated that recent corporate scandals reduced economic activity in New York in the 2003 fiscal year by $2.9 billion and cost the state $1 billion in tax revenue.
"This was not just injury to companies that went bankrupt, their employees who lost their jobs and their retirees who lost their retirement savings, this hurt every taxpayer in America," Mr. Hevesi said. "The first challenge is to have everybody understand how damaging these scandals were."
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act that Congress enacted to clean up corporations is "very good reform legislation" that is getting a lot of attention now, he said. But the responsibility for enforcing it falls not to a department of the federal government but to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Independent regulatory bodies have a tendency to lose focus, Mr. Hevesi said. "They clean up the problem, then six years later," he added, they move on.
Mr. Hevesi has joined in shareholder lawsuits against big companies, including WorldCom and Cendant. He said his office was seeking to hire as many as a dozen lawyers to represent it in other litigation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (91%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ACCOUNTING (85%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ETHICS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (74%); BONDS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); COUNTIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); LAWYERS (68%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); FMR CORP (56%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (57%); AFL-CIO (57%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%) ENRON CORP; WORLDCOM INC; COUNCIL OF INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; NATIONAL COALITION FOR CORPORATE REFORM 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: HEVESI, ALAN G; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



73 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Necessities, not luxuries, are driving Americans into debt, a new book says.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and the journal Indicators, and he also teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His new book is "Why Economies Grow," from Basic Books and the Century Foundation. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
THE booming economy of the 1990's spawned many a spurious piece of conventional wisdom. One is that Americans' materialism has run amok.
 Americans from all walks of life, the story goes, are spending with abandon on fancy and unnecessary products. Many people on the political right welcome this as evidence of how high the standard of living really is in the United States, despite slow-growing wages for three decades. Some on the left claim the indulgent materialism is using up the economy's resources while serious social problems are left unsolved. 
 Similarly, many economists argue that "affluenza" has pushed too many Americans deeply into debt and produced a savings rate too low to sustain prosperity without the piling up of mountains of foreign debt. 
There is little doubt that some Americans are spending ostentatiously. But this Labor Day week it is appropriate to debunk the oversimplification. As Elizabeth Warren and Amelia Warren Tyagi convincingly claim, most Americans do not fit the bill. What is driving Americans into debt, they argue, is not superficial luxury spending but necessities. 
If they perhaps push the point too far in their new book, "The Two-Income Trap" (Basic Books), they provide a clear-eyed correction to the myth of far-flung affluence. 
The fact is that it is not only the poor and working poor who are not faring well in America. Many of those in the middle, especially two-income families, are having trouble making ends meet, despite the boom of the 1990's. 
Part of the distortion about where American working families stand today is that we tend to think of a standard of living as measured in the physical goods we own. The conservative analysts W. Michael Cox and Richard Alm, in their 1999 book "Myths of Rich and Poor," asserted that Americans were buying a lot more goods like Gap clothes, Nike sneakers and VCR's, and the standard of living was improving faster than the data suggested. But the book conspicuously ignored the costs of education and health care, and put a misleading spin on housing. 
Yes, the costs of food and clothing have risen more slowly than median family incomes, and the costs of electronic products have fallen rapidly. But the costs of what it really takes to be middle class today -- education, health care, housing, drugs -- rose much faster than median family incomes. According to federal data, for example, my own calculations show that nominal family incomes rose by about 5.5 percent a year from 1973 to 2000, but the cost of health care rose nearly 8 percent a year, and the cost of higher education 6.5 percent. 
Ms. Warren and Ms. Tyagi make the point vividly, however. Ms. Warren is a professor at Harvard Law School, and Ms. Tyagi is a management consultant. They are mother and daughter. 
The authors find that despite the popular notions about overconsumption, a typical family spends less on clothing today, discounted for inflation, than in the early 1970's. Similarly, it spends less on large appliances and on food, including going out to restaurants. As for vacation homes, the data suggest that 3.2 percent of families had them in 1973, and that 4 percent do now. Is this affluenza? 
Rather, what families spend a lot more on, the authors calculate, is a house in a safe neighborhood with a good school -- about 70 percent more a year, discounted for inflation, for the typical family of four. The scarcity of good schooling has created a bidding war that drives up house prices in first-rate school districts. 
And these families are not buying huge new homes. The average home size has been skewed upward by the wealthy. The typical family's house is, in fact, only a half room or so larger than it was 30 years ago.
The other factors driving spending are largely the costs of the two-income family. The authors find that typical payments for day care and preschool for two children can add enormously to the household budget. 
Two workers also make a second car a necessity, and often a good second car.
Also, the cost of health insurance is often up, even when spouses work, because corporate benefit plans are demanding higher employee contributions. For the typical family of four, it is up by 60 percent. 
And two incomes often mean a substantial increase in taxes because the family moves into a higher tax bracket.
The upshot is that two-income families often have even less income left over today than did an equivalent single-income family 30 years ago, even when they make almost twice as much. And they go deeper in debt. The authors find that it is not the free-spending young or the incapacitated elderly who are declaring bankruptcy so much as families with children. 
The authors' suggestions for how to solve the problems are not conventionally liberal. They call for vouchers for the total cost of public education; tuition freezes at colleges rather than more federal financing; and tax breaks for all savings. 
Not all of these are practical. 
And Ms. Warren and Ms. Tyagi draw too fine a point here and there. There is surely some mere status-seeking in sending a child to the right day care institution and living in the right neighborhood. 
They also justify too readily the purchase of an expensive car as the family's second vehicle. 
But their main thesis is undeniable. Typical families often cannot afford the high-quality education, health care and neighborhoods required to be middle class today. 
More clearly than anyone else, I think, Ms. Warren and Ms. Tyagi have shown how little attention the nation and our government have paid to the way Americans really live.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "That 70's Era"A typical family in the early 1970's with two children and one working parent had more discretionary income than the same family today with both parents working. Figures are in 2000 dollars Early 2000's: $67,800FIXED EXPENSES*: $50,755OTHER: $17,045 Early 1970's: $38,700FIXED EXPENSES*: $20,866OTHER: $17,834 *Includes mortgage, child care, health insurance, car and taxes (Sources by Warren and Tyagi, Consumer Expenditure Survey) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); WRITERS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); US LABOR DAY (73%); LITERATURE (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); LUXURY GOODS (67%); STUDENT EXPENSES (66%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF; WARREN, ELIZABETH; TYAGI, AMELIA WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); TWO-INCOME TRAP, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



74 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN CLIMBS. The yen rose to its highest against the dollar in over a year on speculation an improving economy will reduce Japan's need to try to lower its currency. In New York, the dollar settled at 115.95, down from 116.29.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since March 2002. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TRENDS (83%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



75 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Nassau and Albany in Accord On Economic Recovery Plan 

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Nassau County officials and state lawmakers announced an agreement today to help the county out of its fiscal straits by creating a Nassau sewer authority and imposing new county fees, including a $10 surcharge on motor vehicle registrations.
 Their agreement ended more than a year of hardball politicking over County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi's proposal for the sewer and storm-water authority. Because Mr. Suozzi projected a $25 million annual saving from the authority, the deadlock had threatened to create a big gap in his economic recovery plan. 
 In the end, Mr. Suozzi, a Democrat, won approval for a scaled-down authority estimated to save only $6 million a year. But his Republican adversaries made up the difference by agreeing to measures that would raise an additional $19 million.
"Did I get everything I want?" Mr. Suozzi said at a news conference here. "Absolutely not." But he said the compromise was acceptable and had removed a major stumbling block to the 2004 county budget that he is required to submit by Sept. 15.
Flanking Mr. Suozzi were the two leading Republicans who resisted the authority proposal, the County Legislature's minority leader, Peter J. Schmitt, and the State Senate's deputy majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, who represents a Nassau district. Referring to the prolonged fight, Mr. Skelos said, "Politics can be a contact sport." But he added that eventually, "cooler heads prevailed."
County officials said the new authority would save money by consolidating the existing 30 sewage districts and by refinancing the system's construction debt at a lower interest rate. The plan would freeze sewer taxes through 2007.
The new revenues would include an estimated $9 million from a $5 or $10 increase in auto registration fees, the amount depending on vehicle weight. An additional $5 million is projected from a $250 fee for the filing of challenges to assessments on commercial property. About $3 million is expected from profits from a new Off-Track Betting television theater in Plainview.
The agreement also requires that commercial property owners who get property tax refunds distribute the proceeds to any tenants who originally paid the excess taxes. If the tenants could not be found, the money would revert to the county. Officials estimated a yield of $2 million a year from that provision.
Legislators have already approved the betting site, but the other provisions require state and county legislation. The County Legislature's presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs, a Democrat, and Mr. Schmitt said they expected unanimous approval.
Mr. Skelos said he had conferred with the Senate's majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and expressed confidence that "we will be passing the bill on Sept. 16." Nassau's senior Democratic assemblyman, Thomas DiNapoli, indicated that his house would follow suit. 
Two years ago Mr. Suozzi ended decades of Republican rule in Nassau, winning on a pledge to balance the county's deficit-ridden budget. He developed a multiyear plan that was approved by a state-imposed fiscal oversight board. But the sewer authority proposal drew opposition from the Republicans. They questioned whether it would save as much as claimed, objected to it as another layer of government and said the plan failed to cut the county taxes now charged for sewers.
Mr. Suozzi promised answers and safeguards to satisfy the critics. Others in his camp said the Republicans' real motive was to force him into unpopular alternatives, like layoffs or cuts in social services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (90%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); PROPERTY TAX (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); GAMING (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Budgets and Budgeting; Waste Materials and Disposal; Finances; Credit; Automobile Registration and License Plates

PERSON: Bruce Lambert; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%) Nassau County (NY) ; Nassau County (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



76 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2759 words

HEADLINE: Some Successful Models Ignored As Congress Works on Drug Bill 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR and WALT BOGDANICH 

 BODY:
By most measures, the Department of Veterans Affairs has solved the puzzle of making prescription drugs affordable for at least one big group of Americans without wrecking the federal budget.
 Wielding its power as one of the largest purchasers of medications in the United States, the V.A. has made it possible for millions of veterans to pay just $7 for up to a 30-day prescription. Thousands are signing up for the program every month. 
 Yet for all its apparent success, lawmakers have disregarded the V.A. model -- and others like it that use the government's immense power to negotiate lower prices -- as they try to give older Americans relief from rising drug costs while reshaping how the elderly get medical services.
Instead, a Congress deeply divided by ideology has given birth to legislation that would add prescription drug coverage to Medicare, but that many experts say would fall short of meeting the needs of the elderly. The benefits, costing $400 billion over 10 years, are complex and limited, and the legislation relies in part on cost control mechanisms that are untested or unproven. 
In fact, Congress would exempt the drug industry from the kind of cost controls that are in place for virtually every other major provider of Medicare services.
"The legislation pending in Congress does more to deform than to reform Medicare," said Dr. Paul M. Ellwood, a noted health policy analyst who was an early proponent of managed care. "Instead of creating a system of readily understandable choices based on cost and quality, Congress is writing legislation that will increase the complexity of Medicare, so it will be more difficult for seniors to navigate."
The effort to forge a final deal on Capitol Hill, blending separate House and Senate measures, was high on the agenda as Congress returned to work this week. Lobbyists and health policy experts say the likelihood that a comprehensive drug bill will become law this year seems no better than 50-50. But Thomas A. Scully, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said yesterday that he was "95 percent sure we will get a Medicare bill out of Congress." 
Politically, the legislation is a marriage of convenience, combining drug benefits, long sought by Democrats, with a Republican approach to administering the benefits, through private health plans and insurance companies. To secure votes, the Senate bill was festooned with provisions aiding various interest groups. There is language that would, for examples, aid chiropractors; marriage and family therapists; doctors in Alaska; hospitals in Iredell County, N.C.; operators of air ambulance services; and many other groups.
The need for bipartisan support "led to a series of compromises that resulted in a hodgepodge of a bill," said Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, who opposed the Senate bill.
Michael Valentino, a manager of the V.A.'s drug benefit program, praised Congress for trying to help Medicare patients buy prescription drugs. But he added that the coverage could be expanded if Medicare took full advantage of its purchasing power.
John C. Rother, policy director for AARP, the lobbying group for older Americans, said the legislation was a "real godsend" for people with low incomes or high drug expenses.
"But for many others," he said, "the benefits will be seen as inadequate."
Premiums and drug benefits could vary from plan to plan, state to state and year to year. The Senate and House bills both establish a standard drug benefit, with substantial coverage upfront and catastrophic coverage for high costs. But beneficiaries would have to pay all drug costs in the middle, until their out-of-pocket costs reached a certain level -- $3,700 a year under the Senate bill and $3,500 under the House bill. 
Robert D. Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said the gap in coverage "defies rational policy analysis" and was not found in commercial insurance. Congress engineered the gap to keep the drug plan's cost under the $400 billion limit.

'Political Judgment'
Drug companies say they support covering prescription drugs under Medicare. But in the last few years, they have invested several hundred million dollars in campaign contributions, lobbying and advertising to head off price controls.
The legislation "reflects a political judgment that the pharmaceutical industry" would block "price controls or any arrangement that used the concentrated purchasing power of the government to buy prescription drugs," said Paul B. Ginsburg, president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a private research institute.
The V.A. plan, by contrast, owes its relative success to its buying power -- and a willingness to use it. Its doctors and pharmacists analyze research to establish a list of preferred drugs for various conditions. The V.A. obtains discounts through bulk purchasing arrangements -- using generic drugs where possible -- and competitive bidding.
"We are so far ahead of anybody else, it's almost ridiculous," Mr. Valentino said. In 2000, the National Academy of Sciences found that the V.A.'s methods had achieved nearly $100 million in savings over the previous two years. 
But Congress decided not to adopt the V.A.'s approach; in fact, it was not seriously considered. Lawmakers also passed up other alternatives, including vouchers for the purchase of health insurance and proposals to assist only people with low incomes.
Representative Michael Bilirakis, the Florida Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said that if Medicare pooled its purchasing power, it would amount to "a form of price controls." 
"That's not America," Mr. Bilirakis said. "Many of my constituents would feel that price controls are a great thing. But ultimately some of us have to be responsible."
The political imperative that seems to have produced today's fragile consensus stems from complaints that every lawmaker has heard from constituents: prescription drugs cost too much.
At Medicare's inception in 1965, policy makers chose not to cover outpatient drugs, because medicines now so indispensable to treating disease either did not exist or were relatively inexpensive. 
Instead, Medicare focused on big-ticket items like hospital care and doctors' services. For years, Medicare mostly paid whatever bills health care providers submitted, but by the 1980's Congress decided it needed to restrain rising costs. In subsequent years, Medicare prospectively set limits on what it paid major health care providers, including hospitals, doctors, skilled nursing homes and home health agencies.
The controls have never been popular with the health care industry.
"In Medicare, the tendency is to set prices too low," said Dr. Donald J. Palmisano, president of the American Medical Association. Indeed, Carmela S. Coyle, senior vice president of the American Hospital Association, said 67 percent of hospitals lose money on Medicare.
By and large, however, the measures have managed to slow the growth of Medicare costs, say many health policy experts, including Bruce C. Vladeck and Nancy-Ann DeParle, who ran Medicare under President Bill Clinton. Drug costs, however, have skyrocketed, and while most of the elderly get some help from retiree health benefits, Medicaid or state programs, at least one-fourth of Medicare beneficiaries have no drug coverage.
Under the bills passed this year, the government would subsidize drug coverage provided to Medicare beneficiaries by private insurers and health plans. They would bargain with drug companies to secure discounts and rebates, a task likely to be delegated to pharmaceutical benefit managers, or P.B.M.'s, the companies that already perform the service for many employers. Both bills stipulate that Medicare officials cannot "interfere in any way" in those negotiations.
For President Bush and Republicans in Congress, the concept makes sense: let the marketplace set the prices, rather than government. For years, lawmakers have found fault with Medicare's arcane and voluminous regulations. Congress has frequently intervened to tweak the formulas, taking money from some providers while giving more to others -- often to those with the most persuasive lobbyists.
That, in turn, contributes to anomalies in medical care, because doctors have financial incentives to perform certain services and not others. Mr. Scully, the Medicare administrator, said such anomalies were inevitable because Medicare was "a big dumb price-fixer."
Still, Medicare has been a boon to the elderly and their children. Surveys show that beneficiaries are overwhelmingly satisfied with their care. Before Medicare, only 56 percent of the elderly had hospital insurance; the program has contributed to an increase in life expectancy and a sharp reduction in poverty among the elderly.
Moreover, some studies show Medicare has done better at controlling medical costs than private health insurance. Cristina Boccuti, a researcher at the Urban Institute, and Marilyn Moon, a former public trustee of the Medicare program, said Medicare spending grew more slowly than private health insurance costs from 1970 to 2000. Republicans say such comparisons are misleading and contend that Medicare's cost controls have slowed access to new treatments and technology.

Negotiated Discounts
But that does not seem to be a problem for the V.A. The study by the National Academy of Sciences found that its approach had "meaningfully reduced drug expenditures without demonstrable adverse effects on quality."
Mr. Valentino said: "When we make our recommendations, it's not because Doctor A, in his or her opinion, believes it is the best drug. It is because the evidence says it's the best drug." Echoing the criticisms of government investigators, he added that P.B.M.'s, by contrast, sometimes make deals favoring expensive drugs for their own financial benefit.
Under the House and Senate bills,Medicare beneficiaries would have access to drug discounts negotiated on their behalf by private insurers and P.B.M.'s. Supporters of the legislation say these discounts could reduce retail drug prices by 20 percent. But Congress consciously decided to disperse Medicare's purchasing power. It did not want Medicare to establish a uniform nationwide list of preferred drugs or a price list for those drugs -- mechanisms that the drug industry opposes.
"Price controls cause artificially low prices," said Jeffrey L. Trewhitt, a spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America. And low prices for a government program, he added, would reduce the money available for researching new drugs and could prompt drug makers to seek higher prices from patients with private insurance.
Critics of the drug industry dispute such arguments -- and say that they obscure the obvious. 
"The obvious is that if you control prices, you pay less," said Mr. Vladeck, the former Medicare administrator. "There are some problems with it, and not all price controls work as well as others. But the pharmaceutical industry does have enough political juice to prevent any reasonable price controls."
The idea of giving people a choice between traditional Medicare and private health plans has deep roots.
"We must promote diversity, choice and healthy competition in American medicine if we are to escape from the grip of spiraling costs," the Nixon administration said in 1970, in words similar to those of President Bush in 2003.
In 1978, Alain C. Enthoven, a Stanford University economist, called for regulated competition among private health plans. Medicare, he said, would subsidize premiums, and the most efficient health plans would pass on their savings to consumers, so patients would have a financial incentive to enroll.
Prompted by such thinking, the government offered new private alternatives to the traditional Medicare program in the 1980's, and Congress encouraged the development of health maintenance organizations. Enrollment grew, in part because many H.M.O.'s offered drug benefits not available in traditional Medicare. 
Medicare beneficiaries generally praised the care they received in H.M.O.'s, but the plans did not control costs as their proponents had hoped. Many H.M.O's began reducing some benefits, including drug coverage.
They also pressed Congress for more money, saying that their costs were rising 10 percent a year -- five times the increase in payments from Medicare. Unable to persuade Congress to close the gap, many H.M.O.'s abandoned Medicare or curtailed their participation.
That track record has heightened critics' skepticism about the current legislation. 
"The myth of the market," said Lynn M. Etheredge, who worked at the White House Office of Management and Budget from 1972 to 1982, "has a powerful sway over people's minds, despite evidence that it is not working in the Medicare program."
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that under the legislation, many private plans will cost slightly more than traditional Medicare. Moreover, there is widespread doubt that insurers -- who do not now sell stand-alone drug insurance -- will begin to do so.
Even Mr. Scully concedes that such drug coverage "does not exist in nature" and would probably not work in practice. The elderly are heavy users of prescription drugs, so few insurers are eager to write coverage for their drug costs alone, separate from their other medical expenses.
"It would be like providing insurance for haircuts," Charles N. Kahn III said several years ago, when he was president of the Health Insurance Association of America.

Limits of Coverage
Even if President Bush signs a Medicare drug bill in the coming year, it will not be the last word.
Health policy experts say that costs may well grow faster than the official projections suggest. That would increase pressure on Congress to hold down drug costs, just as lawmakers continually try to slow the growth of Medicare payments to hospitals.
At the same time, when Medicare beneficiaries realize the limits of the new drug coverage, they can be expected to lobby for more generous benefits. In supporting the Senate bill, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, made clear that it was only a down payment, a foundation for more comprehensive drug benefits.
Ms. DeParle predicts that the legislation will produce a huge demand for drugs, and she is far from certain that competition will do much to control costs. "It is pretty much theory, and that is what worries me about it," she said. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that per capita drug spending for the Medicare population will increase about 10 percent a year over the next decade.
Critics of the legislation doubt its cost can be kept to the $400 billion budgeted by Congress. "Utilization will go up dramatically, and costs could explode," said Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma.
For now, however, politicians have chosen to favor drug companies over Medicare beneficiaries, said Prof. Uwe E. Reinhardt, a health care economist at Princeton University.
"On one hand, there is the taxpayer and, in fact, patients who would benefit from having costs controlled," Dr. Reinhardt said. "But on the other hand, those people do not finance the campaigns of these legislators."
Ms. Coyle of the hospital association declined to address the question of why her industry, but not the pharmaceutical industry, had been subject to price controls. Her group's biggest concern about the legislation, she said, is that "we are not addressing the larger problem: a health care system that is fundamentally broken." The nation, she said, wants the best care for everyone, but needs to decide if it is willing to bear the cost.
So who would be the big winners if the legislation is signed into law?
"The short-run political winner is George Bush, because this law will not be understood by anyone," Dr. Reinhardt said. "It is so complex. But he can go in 2004 and say, 'Look, for 30 years you tried to get a drug benefit -- I got you one.' "
And, he added: "The elderly will benefit, too, relative to nothing. Who loses? Obviously the people who pay for it."

Re-examining Medicare
Since its inception in 1965, Medicare has improved the health of the elderly while playing an outsize role in shaping the delivery of health care for all Americans. 
This article begins a series that will examine efforts to overhaul Medicare and ways that rules of the program influence the economics and practice of medicine.
The articles will remain online at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prabhoo Narine, a pharmacy technician, checks a prescription dispensed at the Veterans Affairs Hospital in East Orange, N.J. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C6) Chart: "One Government, Two Plans"Legislation in Congress to add a prescription drug benefit to Medicare would rely on private insurers to provide coverage, which the government would subsidize. The plan is very different from one used by the Department of Veterans Affairs. The V.A. has its own list of preferred drugs and negotiates prices directly with drug makers. Here is how the V.A.'s system compares with the Medicare proposal. Number of beneficiariesDepartment of Veterans Affairs: 6.8 million veterans have signed up for benefits and 3.8 million received drugs as outpatients in 2002Proposed Medicare drug benefit: 40 million people are covered by Medicare Drug benefit costDepartment of Veterans Affairs: $2.5 billion for fiscal year ended in Sept. 2002Proposed Medicare drug benefit: Estimated $400 billion over 10 years Patients out-of-pocket costDepartment of Veterans Affairs: Varies by income and whether condition is service related. For most veterans, capped at $840 annually, or $7 for a 30-day drug supply.Proposed Medicare drug benefit:House bill: Capped at $3,500 annuallySenate bill: Capped at $3,700 annually How drugs are selectedDepartment of Veterans Affairs: Medical staff reviews drugs for effectiveness and cost.Proposed Medicare drug benefit: Private insurers follow their own criteria; there are no uniform standards How drugs are boughtDepartment of Veterans Affairs: Generics are preferred. For therapeutically equivalent drugs, competitive bids are sought. Otherwise the V.A. negotiates for the best price.Proposed Medicare drug benefit: Private insurers negotiate with drug companies. Pharmaceutical benefit managers, which now negotiate for employer health plans, are expected to perform this function. How drugs are dispensedDepartment of Veterans Affairs: At V.A. pharmacies or via V.A.-run mail order suppliersProposed Medicare drug benefit: At retail pharmacies or by mail-order suppliers. (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); ELDER HEALTH (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); CHIROPRACTIC (69%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (65%); INSURANCE (60%); COUPLE COUNSELING (60%); MEDICAID (57%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; AGED; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: JIM INHOFE (55%) PEAR, ROBERT; BOGDANICH, WALT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



77 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Appeals Court Blocks Easing of Media Rules
A federal appeals court issued a surprise order blocking the Federal Communications Commission from imposing rules that would make it easier for the largest media conglomerates to grow bigger by moving into new markets and areas of business.
 The decision came a day before the new rules were scheduled to go into effect, preventing media companies from moving forward with plans to take advantage of the rules. It was a setback for the commission's chairman, Michael K. Powell. Page A1. 

Senator Attacks Boeing Deal
Senator John McCain attacked a proposed $21 billion Air Force plan to lease Boeing 767's for use as aerial refueling tankers, while Air Force Secretary James G. Roche resolutely defended the plan. The Pentagon's inspector general announced a formal investigation into whether a former Air Force top official who is now a Boeing executive improperly provided the company with proprietary data in the course of the deal's negotiations. C8.

Models for Medicare Are Ignored
Lawmakers have disregarded model prescription drug programs, like one at the Veterans Administration, in their effort to add prescription drug coverage to Medicare. A1.

Survey of Identity Theft and Costs
In its first national survey on identity theft, the Federal Trade Commission found 3.3 million consumers who were victimized in the last year at a cost of $3.8 billion. Businesses lost $32.9 billion to such theft. A20.

Data Point to Economic Growth
Business conditions perked up in the summer and construction spending climbed in July to the highest level since January. C9.

Stock Gauges Reach Fresh Highs
The Dow Jones industrials rose 45.19 points, or 0.47 percent, to 9,568.46. The Standard & Poor's 500 climbed 4.28 points, or 0.42 percent, at 1,026.27. The Nasdaq climbed 11.42 points, or 0.62 percent, at 1,852.90. C9.

The New York State comptroller proposed that big investors should work together to try to prevent corporate scandals. C8.

China Fears Too Much Success
While this week's visit by Treasury Secretary John W. Snow has focused attention on the value of China's currency, the worry in China is that the economy is overheating. One concern is reckless bank lending. A1.

Japan to Maintain Monetary Policy
Seeking to halt the sharp rise in long-term interest rates and the yen, the governor of the Bank of Japan, Toshihiko Fukui, left, said the central bank would maintain its policy of pushing short-term interest rates to near zero even if the economy improved. Still, with stock prices at 14-month highs and the economy gathering steam, some expect the strategy to be abandoned. World Business, Section W.

The Bank of Canada lowered its main interest rate today for the second time in less than two months. World Business, Section W.

Bertelsmann's First-Half Net Sinks
Bertelsmann of Germany reported a 10 percent decline in sales, and a 91 percent drop in net income in the first half of this year, as its music and book-publishing properties in the United States faltered in a harsh market. World Business, Section W.

The No-Frills Middle Class
The myth: profligate spending is plunging Americans into debt. The truth: housing and education are the culprits. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,568.46 up 45.19Nasdaq composite -- 1,852.90 up 11.4210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.59% down 0.03The euro -- $1.0845 up 0.0020The dollar -- 115.95 yen down 0.34 Graph "TODAY" shows the percentage change in factory orders from Jan.-June 2003.July figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.8% Graph tracks the share price of Boeing since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); IDENTITY THEFT (71%); VETERANS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); SCANDALS (68%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



78 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: For Schooling, a Reverse Emigration to Africa 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Najima and Nayaba Bawa were despondent when their parents first raised the subject of sending them home to Ghana. It was three years ago, one evening as their mother was braiding Nayaba's hair. Najima, then in junior high, had lost focus in school. Hanging out with friends had become more important than studying. She had even brought home a few C's on her report card.
 They had reached a decision, the girls' parents calmly informed them. They were sending them to the Akosombo International School, a boarding school in the eastern Ghananian town of Akosombo, northeast of the capital, Accra. 
 "We tried everything to get out of it," said Najima, 16, now preparing, along with her sister, to begin her third year there. 
Nayaba, 14, who like her sister grew up in Washington, said, "We wondered what we had done to be sent away." 
When they arrived at the Ghananian school and met the children of other Africans from the United States, they realized that their parents' decision was not uncommon. The Bawas, and other African families like them, have opted for a temporary reverse emigration for their children. In part it is an effort to help them maintain links to their African heritage. But it is also, many say, a conscious, protective response to adolescence in the United States.
American teenagers have more opportunity to get into trouble than those in Africa, where high levels of independence and materialism are less common, these families say. And the negative consequences of slipping through the cracks in the United States, they say they have observed, often disproportionately affect black children.
For their children to realize the American dream, many immigrant parents have decided, it may be best for them to leave the United States for a few years.
"During those tender years when so many African-American children are lost, it is seen as a beneficial absence," said Sulayman S. Nyang, a professor of African studies at Howard University. "Parents worry that the negative values of self-denigration that some children fall into here will hamper the quest for social mobility that is part of the immigrant experience."
According to the latest census, the African-born population in the United States totals nearly one million. There are no figures on the numbers of African families who choose to school their children in their home countries, but Professor Nyang and other academics and families interviewed said the cultural timeouts had been practiced since the African population in the United States began to swell in the late 1970's and 1980's. 
Though schooling back in Africa is impossible for refugees from the most unstable parts of the continent, it is a popular option for immigrants from African countries with relatively stable political and economic systems like Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal, Kenya and South Africa. 
Though some schools in Africa do not take girls, others, like Akosombo International, are co-ed, and require the girls to take rigorous academic programs with more language and science courses than are required in many schools in the United States. Some schools, which cater to families who want their children to attend college in the United States or England, offer international baccalaureate programs. About 20 percent of students enrolled in Akosombo International are from Ghanaian families living outside Ghana. 
Some families bring their children back to the United States in 12th grade, so they can take their SAT examinations and make sure they have all the necessary credits to apply to American colleges.
"We want to teach them that they can pick and choose from different parts of the American experience, like a buffet," said Mahama Bawa, the girls' father, who came to Washington from Ghana in 1983, and who owns an African clothing store in Adams Morgan, a neighborhood infused with African and Hispanic culture. "But to do that they need to be able to step back from it, to develop a broader perspective."
The Bawa sisters, who say they cannot wait to return to school in mid-September, say boarding school in Ghana is not devoid of normal teenage pressures. Though students wear uniforms, they still assess one another's coolness -- or lack thereof -- based on things like sneakers and backpacks.
But the girls said that the strict discipline imposed at their school -- dormitory and classroom inspections, mandatory 4 a.m. jogs on Saturdays, rigidly enforced study and play times -- relieved them of some of the pressure of having too many choices. 
"Here a lot of people are just focused on what party to go to," said Nayaba, who will soon have to cut off the fashionable braided hair extensions she got this summer and return to the close-cropped natural look, required of all the girls in her school. "In boarding school the goal is just learning, not to be average but to be at the top of the class. You feel out of place if you're not trying; that's sometimes not the case here." 
For many families, the relative affordability of boarding schools abroad is also a plus. One of the better private schools in Ghana, Akosombo International is far too expensive for the average Ghanaian. But tuition and board for a three-term school year totals about $750 for each child. 
The Bawas, who are Muslim, said they would probably have enrolled their daughters in a Roman Catholic school had they stayed here, but even the least expensive private schools in the Washington area would have cost around $5,000 for each child. 
The sisters say the experience is giving them a new view of their identity. Their mother, Tanya, a training and development manager for a federal credit union, is African- American. Ask the girls how they see themselves, and their response is decisive. "We are African-American -- literally," said Najima. 
Albouri Ndiaye, a senior at Michigan State University, says the benefits of his time abroad have become clearer to him now that he has been back in the United States four years. Mr. Ndiaye left an elementary school in Brooklyn for a Catholic school in Senegal at age 8. 
"The things you pick up don't seem so important to you at the time," said Mr. Ndiaye, 24, who is majoring in environmental economics and policy, "but it's little things like respect for elders, hospitality and a sense of community. I feel so happy now to have received those values. It has given me a bigger sense of myself." 
Silas Anamelechi, 29, says his parents' decision to send him back to Nigeria at age 15 might even have saved his life. Just 10 years old when his parents first moved to the United States, Mr. Anamelechi said he was teased mercilessly by the children in his predominantly black Washington school for having the wrong clothes, wrong haircut, wrong shoes and wrong accent. 
The things he did to gain acceptance -- cutting up in class, sneaking out of the house -- got him into trouble with his parents. The summer after ninth grade, his father took him back to Nigeria (for what the then-teenager thought was a summer vacation) and left him there at a boarding school. 
"I saw it as a punishment then," said Mr. Anamelechi, a Ph.D. student in atmospheric climatology at Howard. "Now I see it as a blessing. A couple of those friends I had started to run around with have been shot and killed." 
The pressure to be cool and to fit in during junior high and high school, said Mohammed Mahmoud, who just started 10th grade at a public school in Fort Washington, Md., is especially tough for kids from immigrant families. 
"When you're a freshman you get picked on anyway," said the shy 15- year-old, whose parents emigrated from Ghana. "But with me, people picked on my background, the way I talked and dressed. They said I should go back where I came from. I would say to them, 'Don't we all come from the same place?' But the things they said really hurt me inside." Then he looked up from his feet and added: "But they started leaving me alone after I switched my ways and started acting more like everyone else."
The boy's parents, Mohammed Sr., a painter at an auto body shop, and Habiba, a bank teller, twitched uncomfortably on their living room sofa as their son spoke. 
Over the summer, the couple decided that Mohammed and his younger brother Abdullah, 13, the two oldest of their four children, would start school in Ghana as soon as they could get them in. They were too late for enrollment this fall. 
"It is time, we think," said Mr. Mahmoud, anxiously rubbing at the deep furrow in his brow. "It is time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Americans being schooled in Africa include Najima Bawa, left, and her sister, Nayaba, with their father, Mahama, who lives in Washington. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); REFUGEES (64%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS 

PERSON: CLEMETSON, LYNETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (98%); GHANA (95%); NIGERIA (79%); KENYA (79%); SENEGAL (79%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



79 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: COUNCIL CONTESTS/28th District -- Queens; 
Written Off, an Incumbent Rejoins the Battle in Queens

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Several weeks ago, City Councilman Allan W. Jennings Jr. found himself off the ballot for the Democratic nomination for his own seat, the only incumbent whose re-election was considered virtually impossible.
 But politics, especially in New York City, is the art of the possible. So it is that voters in the Council district anchored in Jamaica, Queens, will have the chance on Tuesday to decide whether Mr. Jennings will run again for his seat in the Nov. 4 election. 
 Also running on Tuesday in the 28th Council District's Democratic primary are Yvonne Reddick, 62, district manager of Community Board 12 in Jamaica, and Inderjit Singh, 66, a retired economist who worked for the city and previously taught at the City University of New York.
Mr. Jennings, 36, brought drama to the race when he was removed from the ballot last month by a State Supreme Court judge for irregularities on the forms he had filed to qualify for the ballot. But just as his candidacy was declared over, Mr. Jennings won an appeal and was ordered reinstated, after a finding that the irregularities did not warrant removal from the ballot. 
That action has paved the way for a highly charged, vigorous, down-to-the-wire campaign.
In many ways it is a contest between Mr. Jennings and the Queens Democratic Party, which took the unusual step this year of supporting Ms. Reddick against the incumbent.
Mr. Jennings has never been a party favorite. Party officials and both of his rivals say that his behavior since taking office in January 2002 has been embarrassing, and that it could cost him his re-election.
They have pointed to a series of incidents, including Mr. Jennings's purchase of advertisements in two Chinese-language newspapers declaring his love for a new Taiwanese girlfriend while disparaging his former wife.
They have also reminded voters of Mr. Jennings's reaction when he was stripped of a committee assignment after voting against a property tax increase championed by the Council leadership. In a speech in the Council chamber, he compared his treatment by Speaker Gifford Miller to that of Jesus at the hands of Caesar.
Ms. Reddick and Mr. Singh also contend that Mr. Jennings has not paid enough attention to economic development issues in the 28th Council District, which also includes Rochdale Village and Richmond Hill.
Mr. Jennings denounces the attention given to those episodes as a distraction used by his opponents and the news media to obscure the significant work he has done. He said he had secured $7.5 million for laptop computers for third-, fourth- and fifth-grade pupils in each of the public schools in his district. He said he worked longer hours and provided better services for district residents than other council members.
"I am a full-time-and-a-half councilman," Mr. Jennings said. He added: "I have created four after-school programs, and I have provided scholarships for students in this district. And they are not just the top students. I also included a scholarship for the student at the bottom of his class, to give him encouragement."
But Ms. Reddick said the district's schools remained crowded and needed more after-school and child care programs for working parents. "People feel that his behavior has been inappropriate," she said. "But the biggest problem is that he has not focused on these issues in this district. We have needs beyond laptop computers."
The race is widely viewed as an intense competition between Ms. Reddick and Mr. Jennings. Mr. Singh does not have the party's endorsement, nor has he raised any money, according to his filings with the city's Campaign Finance Board.
Ms. Reddick's supporters include United States Representative Gregory W. Meeks; former Representative Floyd H. Flake; Helen Marshall, the borough president; and many other Queens Democrats. Ms. Reddick has raised $40,000 and received $57,000 in public matching funds from the Campaign Finance Board.
Mr. Jennings said the challenges from the Democratic organization had caused him to spend so heavily on legal fees that he had no money even to print campaign fliers. The Campaign Finance Board said that Mr. Jennings owes $37,000 from the 2001 race and that he has not filed any data with the board since July. 
"I think I have somewhere between $25 and $50 in my campaign account," Mr. Jennings said.
But he ran for City Council three times before winning in 2001, and he has been elected a Democratic district leader five times, so he has widespread name recognition.
"I am the underdog in this race," Ms. Reddick said. "He is the incumbent. So I understand that I have to work harder. And that's what I'm trying to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three candidates are competing for the Democratic nomination in the 28th Council District in Queens: Councilman Allan W. Jennings Jr., top, the incumbent; Yvonne Reddick, the district manager of Community Board 12 in Jamaica; and Inderjit Singh, above right, a retired economist. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) Chart:Median age: 33Median income: $41,203Owner occupied: 52%Unemployed: 11% White (non-Hispanic): 5%Black (non-Hispanic): 55%Asian (non-Hispanic): 10%Hispanic: 17% Foreign-born: 39%Noncitizen: 20% (Source by Census 2000 data) Map of Queens highlighting the 28th District.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); APPEALS (73%); JUDGES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (63%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (50%); PROPERTY TAX (50%) Primaries; Decisions and Verdicts

PERSON: Jonathan P Hicks; Allan W Jr (Councilman) Jennings; Yvonne Reddick; Inderjit Singh

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



80 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: BLOCKS; 
In Downtown Canyon, a Vibrant Social Scene Blooms

BYLINE:  By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
YOU can find signs of new life downtown if you look carefully. And listen.
 Listen for the sound of laughter over the gurgle of conversation along Stone Street. Once a grim rivulet in the canyons of Lower Manhattan, Stone Street is now a sea of umbrellas -- Heineken green, Guinness black, Stella Artois red, Amstel blue and Illy white -- marking eight restaurants, side by side, that fill almost every square inch of this 19th-century precinct. 
 Suddenly, surprisingly, the two blocks of Stone Street between Hanover Square and the Goldman Sachs headquarters at 85 Broad Street have become a social scene, crowded morning through night by Wall Streeters, tourists and neighbors pushing baby strollers or walking their dogs.
This overnight transformation was eight years in the making.
What made it possible were coordinated public and private measures, including a $2.3 million investment in the physical environment and a landmark designation that some property owners resisted. The result is different than its planners envisioned. So far, it is even better.
"It just makes you happy to go on that street," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, which runs the Lower Manhattan business improvement district and was heavily involved in trying to resuscitate Stone Street, a dingy back alley for buildings along South William and Pearl Streets, where it was once easier to buy drugs than lunch.
Today, a French pastry shop, Irish pub, French bistro, American grill and Italian, Chinese and Japanese restaurants occupy the ground floors of the small brick buildings. A Scandinavian sandwich shop, Smorgas Chef, is to open next week. Tables spill out to the sidewalks and stone-paved roadway, less than 20 feet wide, which is closed to traffic.
What is emerging is a classic village marketplace, where nominally competitive businesses profit from operating cheek by jowl, attracting outsiders to an insular quarter with the promise of variety.
"We all benefit from each other," said Harry Poulakakos, proprietor of Harry's at Hanover Square at the end of Stone Street. "You cannot eat at the same restaurant every day."
His son, Peter, who owns Bayard's restaurant (upstairs from Harry's), has opened two establishments on Stone Street in the last nine months: Financier Patisserie and Ulysses' pub, where his partner is Danny McDonald. "We're on the verge of making Stone Street a real destination," Peter Poulakakos said.
From its debut on Bloomsday, June 16, Ulysses' has stayed open until 4 a.m. and served Sunday brunch, which would have been almost unthinkable downtown not long ago. The four-year-old Waterstone Grill will probably open on weekends by the end of the year. "It looks like the demand has just about arrived," said Ronan Downs, a partner.
This is not the demand foreseen in 1995, when the Downtown Alliance and Landmarks Preservation Commission sponsored a master plan for Stone Street by the Praedium Group, as economic development consultants, and Beyer Blinder Belle, for design and preservation. Praedium called for a mix of restaurants and "sports clothing and gear stores, corporate gift shops, hair salons or dental clinics."
AS Mr. Weisbrod recalled it: "We were certainly anticipating one or two outdoor cafes. We could hardly have envisioned creating a street-length series of restaurants of different kinds working in a complementary and compatible fashion. There is no street like this in New York."
To ensure that Stone Street would keep its distinctive character, formed in large part during the rebuilding of New York after the great fire of 1835, the landmarks commission designated it a historic district in 1996. Since then, it has issued 18 permits for new storefronts, signs and awnings.
To spur economic development, the street was rebuilt with granite paving blocks, bluestone sidewalks and lampposts, at a cost of $1.8 million, financed by the federal government, the City Transportation Department, two other agencies and the Downtown Alliance.
Owners on Stone Street chipped in $170,000 to repair vaults under the sidewalks. Goldman Sachs and the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company contributed $350,000 to rebuild the adjoining Coenties Alley. 
Stone Street was repaved and relandscaped by the end of 2000. But like the rest of New York, it needed time to recover after the attack in 2001.
What amazes Jennifer J. Raab, who was chairwoman of the landmarks commission when Stone Street was designated, is not so much the scene -- though she said her jaw dropped when she first saw it -- as the fact that it survived Sept. 11.
"It's more precious because of that," she said, "a wonderful social experiment to see if you can bring back a historic district. To be able to do that after the most extreme crisis our city has faced is spectacular."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harry Poulakakos, left, and his son Peter, at Financier Patisserie, Peter's new pastry shop on Stone Street. (Photo by Mike Appleton for The New York Times) Map of New York highlighting Lower Manhattan: A two-block section of Stone Street has eight restaurants.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); RETAIL BAKERIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); DRINKING PLACES (69%) Restaurants; Area Planning and Renewal; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Sidewalk Cafes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



81 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Canada Gets Second Cut In Key Rate This Summer 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
The Bank of Canada lowered its main interest rate today for the second time in less than two months but signaled that with economic recovery on the horizon, the cut might be the last for some time. 
 Taken with the reduction in July, today's drop in the overnight lending rate, from 3 percent to 2.75 percent, reverses two controversial increases earlier this year when the central bank was more concerned about rising inflation than slackening growth. 
 The bank justified today's rate cut on the grounds that inflation pressures had eased and Canada's economic performance had been interrupted by a "number of near-term factors," including outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Toronto and mad cow disease in Alberta, last month's power failure in Ontario, and a spate of damaging forest fires western Canada.
Statistics Canada reported last week that the Canadian economy contracted at an annual rate of 0.3 percent in the second quarter, adjusted for inflation, compared with growth of 2.6 percent in the first three months of the year. The American economy, which has lagged its northern neighbor for the last four years, grew at an annual rate of 3.1 percent in the second quarter. 
But the central bank said that "there are clear indications that conditions are in place for a strengthening of economic growth," mainly because of a rebound in the United States, which buys about 85 percent of Canada's exports. 
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a report this week that the Canadian economy was likely to grow at an annual rate of 2.7 percent for 2003, accelerating to 3.4 percent next year. 
In spite of the brighter outlook, Dale Orr, managing director at Global Insight Canada, a Toronto consulting firm, said that Canada's record of outperforming the United States appeared to be over for the time being. 
Unlike the United States, Mr. Orr said, the Canadian economy would not receive any stimulus from military spending, and that Canadian businesses had less room to grow before hitting capacity constraints.
Recent currency movements also damped Canada's growth prospects, Mr. Orr said. "The United States is in the early stages of adjusting to a trade-weighted depreciation of about 10 percent," he said. "We're adjusting to an appreciation of over 10 percent. That's a big difference."
But the strong Canadian dollar is also holding down prices. Statistics Canada said today that the producer price index fell by 1.6 percent in the 12 months to July. Excluding the exchange rate impact, the index rose by 1 percent.
In spite of the narrowing gap between Canadian and American interest rates, the Canadian dollar strengthened slightly today to about 72.18 cents. The federal funds rate currently stands at 1 percent.
Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at HSBC Securities USA in New York, said that the Canadian currency was likely to appreciate further, based on "triple surpluses" -- in trade and services, in capital flows and in the Canadian government's budget. 
The O.E.C.D. estimates that, in spite of a recent improvement, average incomes in Canada lag those in the United States by about 15 percent. The agency ascribed the gap mainly to lower labor productivity in Canada caused by inadequate innovation and competition, and a shortage of skills.
According to the organization, "a key to greater dynamism is strengthening competition by eliminating remaining foreign ownership limits and barriers to internal and external trade, and continuing electricity deregulation."
The Canadian government restricts foreign ownership in several politically sensitive sectors, like the media. Each of the 10 provinces maintains numerous restrictions to discourage outside competition, and Ontario has backtracked in the last year from earlier moves to open the electricity market to competition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); POWER FAILURES (70%); SARS (69%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (61%); FOREST FIRES (53%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%) BANK OF CANADA 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



82 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Few Ways to Limit Farm Aid, Report Says 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
On the eve of global trade talks, the United States Department of Agriculture released a report today showing that there were few effective payment limits on the $20 billion that the country spends each year to subsidize farmers. 
 Poor and developing nations have complained that subsidized agricultural exports from rich nations destroy the livelihood of millions of farmers in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Farm subsidies will be the subject of negotiations at a World Trade Organization meeting next week in Cancun, Mexico. 
 Republicans lawmakers in Congress beat back a bipartisan move in the Senate to introduce payment limits in the 2002 farm bill, which was signed by President Bush. The administration took no stand on the issue during the debate.
In its annual report on global economic prospects also released today, the World Bank urged the United States and other wealthy nations to reduce subsidies as part of an overall plan to lift poor nations out of poverty through trade and investment. The World Bank's chief economist, Nicholas Stern, said the wealthy countries could "show leadership by reducing agricultural protection."
Big industrial-scale American farms, the ones most responsible for growing the surpluses of farm produce that are exported, are collecting an ever-greater share of the farm payments, according to a separate analysis released today by the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit organization.
In 1995, they received $3.98 billion, or 55 percent of all federal farm payments. In 2002, their portion increased to $7.8 billion, or 65 percent of all federal payments.
Acknowledging that payment limits are among the most sensitive and emotional issues in farm programs, Keith Collins, the chairman of the commission issuing the report, said his goal was to help Congress as it continues to debate whether to limit the payments -- which is the goal of smaller farmers -- or to leave them largely unfettered, which helps the biggest farmers.
"If your goal is to encourage exports, then maybe you don't like payment limitations," Mr. Collins said, summarizing the conclusion of the 10 member panel chosen by Congress and Ann M. Veneman, the secretary of agriculture.
The commission made no recommendations on the wisdom of limiting farmpayments, saying the decision rests with Congress.
The report points out that "those who view abundant farm production or increasing exports as primary goals of farm programs may well argue that there should be no payment limits at all, as any limits, if they are effective, might curtail production and therefore exports as well."
Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, said the new report on payment limitations was "important and sobering."
The report, Mr. Cook said, "strengthens the hand of reformers who want a more equitable farm program that doesn't distort trade and supports conservation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%) AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FARMERS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) ;STERN, NICHOLAS; BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); AFRICA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MEXICO (79%) AFRICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



83 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: A Heated Chinese Economy Piles Up Debt 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Looming through the gray smog of every big Chinese city these days, high above the incessant rattle of jackhammers, are the construction cranes, slowly swinging back and forth over huge steel and concrete boxes wrapped with fine lattices of bamboo scaffolding.
 The question here and across the country, though, is how much longer the cranes will stay busy, and with them an economy that is powering a big chunk of the world's growth and terrifying trading partners from Tokyo to Washington to Brussels. 
 While this week's visit by Treasury Secretary John W. Snow has focused attention on the value of China's currency, the yuan, the worry in China is that the economy is overheating. This is a particular worry in sectors that involve investments in new buildings and equipment.
Mr. Snow and his Chinese counterparts agreed today that China should eventually allow the yuan to be traded freely on world markets, but the Chinese reject calls to move quickly in that direction. Page A3. 
China's central bank expresses growing alarm that reckless bank lending, reminiscent of the pattern that preceded the American savings and loan collapse in the late 1980's, may be causing an unsustainable boom that could end badly. In a rare statement on Aug. 23, the central bank said its economic policy units "unanimously think that the loans right now are increasing too fast."
Chinese banks issued more new loans in the first seven months of this year than in all of last year, and the pace is still accelerating.
Yet in a sign that China remains stuck halfway between Communism and capitalism, the central bank has found itself with curiously little power to stop the runaway lending. Chinese financial markets are not well-enough developed for the central bank to do the kind of trading in overnight credit markets that the Federal Reserve uses to move short-term interest rates.
The bank has also renounced the authority that, under central planning, gave it the power to dictate how much could be lent to certain sectors of the economy, and by whom.
"The central bank is clearly concerned about signs of overheating," said Fred Hu, a Goldman Sachs economist with close ties to top Chinese economic policy makers. "There's not a whole lot they can do."
The lending is fueling rapid growth in capital investment. China's huge steel, chemical, construction materials and mobile phone industries are each forecast to double its capacity in the next three years. If that happens, another wave of Chinese exports can be expected.
But the scale of such investment will allow factories to increase output so much that prices for their products may fall, making it less likely that the projects will earn enough for the borrowers to repay the banks. This could set off another round of loan defaults, said Dong Tao, a China economist with Credit Suisse First Boston. While few economists predict the Chinese economy might actually shrink, lending problems could be a severe brake on growth for years, increasing unemployment.
Real estate has received a large share of recent investment, in part as Chinese repatriate profits from overseas. Yet even as new buildings rise, 17 percent of the modern offices in Beijing and Shanghai are empty and rents are slipping, according to a report by Jones Lang LaSalle, a big property company.
The government owns China's banking industry except for minority stakes in a few small and midsize institutions in the larger cities. While the banks might some day earn profits or sell stock to cover some losses, most of the costs of reckless lending are ultimately borne by taxpayers.
If Chinese banks go on making bad loans, the eventual cost will keep rising. But if the central bank overdoes its adjustments of banking reserve requirements, or if government inspectors of banks' books crack down too quickly on new lending, the economic and political damage could be enormous.
And any sharp slowing of Chinese economic growth would ripple through the global economy. Prices of commodities like oil and iron ore could drop because China's vast imports would slacken. American exports could also be expected to falter, hurting companies like Boeing and growers of crops like soybeans.
It is the domestic dangers that have prompted Chinese officials to allow brisk bank lending for so long. "Unemployment remains the primary concern," said Desmond Supple, managing director of Asian research at Barclays Capital.
After spending almost as much to clean up bad loans in the last five years as the United States did to rescue the savings and loan industry, the Chinese government is already facing calls from banks for another bailout. With a rising budget deficit, Beijing is ill prepared for the prospect that many recently issued loans could also end up in default.
Standard & Poor's estimates that borrowers have defaulted on nearly half of all bank loans in China. Bankers and economists say the banks continue to lend money to politically connected customers and make little effort to charge higher rates to riskier borrowers. A series of investigations has found evidence of inappropriate links between borrowers and lending officers.
So far, the banking system, awash in deposits, has held up. The economy has grown 8 percent a year, and Chinese households have among the world's highest savings rates. Most savers have few options except bank accounts, so the banks constantly receive fresh money to lend.
Indeed, almost all that money comes from Chinese citizens. Stock markets are small and shaky, and the bond market is underdeveloped. So savers, particularly in the countryside, have few other options, even though regulators have kept interest rates on deposits extremely low.
At least until recently, foreign investors have shown little interest in putting money into Chinese accounts earning less than 2 percent.
In the late 1990's, the central bank set up a monetary policy committee that resembled the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee. Trying to manage an economy that may be overheating, the bank appears to have copied some favorite maneuvers of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. 
Two months ago, it changed some rules and tightened the enforcement of others to encourage banks to demonstrate more prudence in lending to property developers and construction companies. Bankers and construction executives say, though, that the changes have had only limited effect.
"The growth is continuing in the construction industry," especially in Beijing, said John Wong, the China director of Gammon Skanska, a big Asia construction business.
When the central bank began trying on Aug. 23 to constrict the money supply for the first time in five years, it partly followed the script Mr. Greenspan used when he pushed up short-term rates in February 1994. It issued its first detailed statement on the economy. It also increased the share of each bank's assets that must be deposited as reserves by only one percentage point, to 7 percent, in an attempt to signal to the financial markets a new policy trend without causing too much alarm.
China's central bankers "have really tried to bring their operation to an international standard," said Joan Zheng, chief China economist at J. P. Morgan.
Raising reserve requirements is a blunt instrument, with unpredictable effects on lending, the money supply and economic growth. The Federal Reserve controls reserve requirements in the United States but has seldom used this power as a tool of monetary policy since the early 1980's.
The Chinese move is expected to hurt mainly smaller banks that have been keeping minimum reserves on deposit, and have been among the most active in the property market. By contrast, the bigger banks have kept more reserves on deposit than required, to the point that the average reserve for the entire system is 8.2 percent, well above the new requirement for individual banks.
The central bank granted an exception for rural credit cooperatives, which are still allowed to keep just 6 percent of their assets as reserves. By drawing huge deposits from the countryside and lending them mainly in urban areas, to borrowers with better political connections, the banking system pumps about $80 billion a year out of the countryside.
Shanghai, the hometown of many top Communist Party figures, has been the principal beneficiary of the politics-laden lending process at state-owned banks, booming in the last decade partly because of huge loans, many of them not repaid.
Guangzhou, a commercial hub of southern China, increasingly relies on lending by the more regulated banks in Hong Kong but also has many projects financed by state banks. Its skyline bears testimony to the perils of excessive lending -- dotted with the concrete shells of unfinished skyscrapers, a national problem, even as new towers continue to be built.
Guangzhou was stuck with dozens of these hulks in the late 1990's, but has managed to finish some of them lately because growth here has been among the fastest in China. Liu Yuan He, the city's executive vice mayor, said in an interview today that he was confident his city's businesses could continue growing strongly.
"Most of them borrow money from the state-owned banks, but there won't be a problem of repayment," he said at city hall, an ornate building that predates the Communist victory in 1949.
Gauging whether the Chinese economy is overheating is hard because official statistics show practically no inflation. A comparable frenzy of business activity in a Western economy would, if accommodated by the central bank, result in companies bidding up the prices of scarce materials and the wages of workers.
Oddly enough, official Chinese statistics show that the overall price level has changed little this year. But the figures may be deceptive; although China has not disclosed the basket of goods it uses to calculate its consumer price index, Western economists estimate that food accounts for as much as half of it.
Food prices have been falling, partly because China joined the World Trade Organization and is beginning to let in cheaper imported food. This may mask rising prices for other goods and for services.
Official data on economic growth may also underestimate the scale of the boom. Analyses by Goldman Sachs have found that China tends to smooth out its growth figures, overestimating them when growth falters but underestimating them when, as now, the economy seems to be expanding at a pace that Goldman puts at more than 10 percent.
Swift growth in bank lending, poor controls on who receives credit and a boom mentality among borrowers are all potential ingredients for a serious financial or economic crisis some day.
"Assets are overheated," Mr. Supple of Barclays said, "and that will inevitably spill over into the rest of the economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rapid urban growth is evident in Guangzhou, China, where bad loans and scant access to new money can mean bustling office towers and apartment buildings, or half-completed building projects and strewn lots. (Photo by Justin Guariglia/Contact Press Images for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); TRENDS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); AMERICAN SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF FLORIDA (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



84 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: In Gaming as in Life, the Undersold Female 

BYLINE:  By LYNN HARRIS 

 BODY:
IMAGINE a world where men and women are, in fact, created equal. They have matching mental and physical skills and comparable opportunities for advancement. Are the two sexes in this world equally valued? 
 Not even in fantasyland. Turns out the women there are less highly valued -- 10 percent less, anyway. New research by Edward Castronova, an associate professor of economics at California State University at Fullerton, indicates that people pay $40 to $55 more for the male characters that they use to represent themselves in the popular online fantasy role-playing game EverQuest. 
Gamers may invest considerable playing time in building up the skills and experience of their virtual characters, which are known as avatars. Often the goal is to make a profit from auctioning them on eBay to players seeking a character who will hit the ground running (or conjuring or foraging or mead-drinking) in Norrath, EverQuest's virtual world. 
 "There are no sex-based differences in avatar capabilities," Dr. Castronova wrote in a research paper. "Nonetheless, among comparable avatars, females do sell at a significant price discount." 
 He acknowledged that some people had responded to his paper, titled "The Price of 'Man' and 'Woman': A Hedonic Pricing Model of Avatar Attributes in a Synthetic World," with a resounding "Duh." EverQuest's player base is, after all, mainly single men ages 18 to 29: is a hedonic pricing model needed to show that boys will be boys?
 But that is precisely what is interesting to Dr. Castronova: that men do prefer to be men -- and will pay more for the privilege -- even when that privilege does not confer a measurable benefit. "The advantage that men perceive is not in the mechanics of the game -- it's in the society of the game," he said in a phone interview. "That says something about the different ways men and women are treated. My guess is that men's discomfort at being treated like a woman shows up in the price."
 Indeed, in terms of differences between the sexes, raw skill rarely tells the whole story. "Relations between avatars are gender-based," Dr. Castronova said, "and include chivalry, dating, and sex." 
 Furthermore, he said, "female avatars tend to be concentrated in highly sexualized Human and Elven races, with very few being present among such aesthetically challenged races as Ogres and Trolls." (A link to his research is at business.fullerton.edu/ecastronova.)
 Dr. Castronova has experienced Norrath's "societal" gender differences firsthand while playing a female character. "I told my wife I understand a little better what it's like for women: people just come up and give you things -- but then you feel like, I didn't ask for this and now I feel this sense of obligation," he said.
 When playing as a woman, Dr. Castronova has also found himself in situations akin to those depicted in movies about a sidelined girl who winds up defeating the boy at boxing. If a fight is brewing, he says, "occasionally there's a male character who'll say to me, 'O.K., you stand over there and when we need you to do that thing you do we'll tell you."'
Avatar gender-bending is actually not uncommon. Dr. Castronova estimates that 20 percent of the avatars in Norrath are in virtual drag, piloted without other players' knowledge by members of the opposite sex. 
 Kathryn Wright, a consulting psychologist for WomenGamers.com, said that male players she has surveyed say they enjoy fully exploiting a game's role-playing potential. 
 "After all, the whole point is to temporarily be something that I'm not," a player who identified himself as Bruce said in a survey. Others say playing the "weaker" sex effectively makes them stronger, as other players are reluctant to take female rivals seriously or to kill them. A survey respondent identifying himself as Scott said: "I get a fraction of a second of hesitation from some opponents at first. Which I gladly exploit."
 Dr. Castronova said the advantages of being a woman in Norrath should in theory balance out the disadvantages and thus erase the price difference between males and females. But attitudes and identifications don't shift or fade easily. 
 T.L. Taylor, an assistant professor of digital aesthetics and communication at the IT University of Copenhagen, said, "When you talk to people about their avatar choices, it becomes clear that even if they adopted a particular one lightly or to experiment, once they play for a while, they do begin to sense how the avatar comes to have meaning, both psychologically and socially."
 "Even if it remains unarticulated and unconscious, we are all aware of the way our bodies shape how we are treated and how we think about ourselves," she added. "While online games can provide interesting opportunities for experimentation, they just as often mirror back our culture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: DISCOUNT -- Female avatars from the role-playing game EverQuest are sold for lower prices than the males. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (78%); WOMEN (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); VIRTUAL REALITY (75%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (74%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (71%); COMPUTER GAMES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%) COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES; WOMEN; MEN; RESEARCH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: HARRIS, LYNN; CASTRONOVA, EDWARD (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



85 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Say Ahhh (and Watch the Monitor) 

BYLINE:  By JESSIE SCANLON 

DATELINE: HAWORTH, N.J. 

 BODY:
YOU sit down, you open your mouth, you say "ahhh." The dentist leans down and peers in, metal probe in one hand, angled mirror in the other, and starts poking. 
 That scene plays out in dentists' offices every day. But when Kevin McMahon sank into the chair in Examination Room 4 at Dr. Andrew Spector's office here for a routine checkup, the process was a bit different. 
Ilene Levine, the hygienist, reviewed Mr. McMahon's chart and images on her flat-panel display, then reached for a wandlike device called a Difoti. She positioned it above each tooth in turn. As she did, light passed through the enamel in a process called transillumination. Any cavities or other irregularities altered the light pattern, and the information was captured by the wand's sensor -- a charge-coupled device, the kind used in many digital cameras -- and transmitted to a display that she and Mr. McMahon were watching. 
 "This is one we need to monitor," Mrs. Levine said, pointing to what looked like a black-and-white photograph of a molar with an old silver amalgam filling. Shielded by the metal, the new decay wouldhave gone undetected by X-rays. 
 The Difoti (the name is an acronym for digital imaging fiber optic transillumination) is one of a range of new digital technologies that are helping to close what Dr. Spector calls the diagnostic void. "Now we're catching problems sooner," he said -- for example, when a cavity is too small to be seen by the naked eye or even picked up by a traditional X-ray. "These days kids have fewer cavities, and adults aren't ending up with major crowns."
 Lasers, sonar, digital radiography and rapid manufacturing are making dental work more efficient, less painful, and of better quality. Even offices that have not made the switch to digital radiography are starting to scan their X-rays; the digitized images can be stored electronically and sent easily to specialists or insurance companies. 
 Moreover, companies like Logicon, a division of Lockheed Martin, and Trophy, now owned by Kodak, have introduced software that can enlarge and enhance images for specific detection tasks. "It's the difference between radio and television," Dr. John Flucke, a dentist in Lee's Summit, Mo., said of the collection of new tools. "The technology allows practitioners to see what we used to ascertain by experience and feel." 
 Some dentists also say that imaging technologies play an important role in their relationship with patients. The buzzword is "co-diagnosis," and the idea is that patients will gain a better understanding of their periodontitis if they can see it on a wide-screen monitor. (Hence Mrs. Levine's narrated walk-through of Mr. McMahon's mouth.) Though many patients would rather forgo the viewing pleasure, the premise is that they will be more willing to go ahead with a root canal if they have witnessed the sorry state of the root.
 Another advantage of these powerful detection and imaging techniques is that they can sometimes help to reduce the discomfort of examinations and treatments. The drill, the workhorse of dentistry for more than a century, may not disappear, but several companies are hoping to sideline it. 
 One alternative is the soft-tissue laser, which Dr. Paul Feuerstein, a dentist in the Boston area and the technology editor of Dental Economics, calls "the big boy of minimally invasive tools." First used for whitening, diode lasers are increasingly being used to shape the gum line and treat gum disease because they are much kinder to the tissue than a scalpel, and patients require no anesthetic when they are used. 
 Dr. Larry Emmott, a dentist and technology consultant in Phoenix, had a patient with chronic gum disease who was not responding to traditional treatments. "The periodontist we'd been collaborating with on the case said she'd just have to get dentures," he recalled. Instead, Dr. Emmott successfully treated the problem by cutting away the infected layer with a soft-tissue laser. 
 Then there is the Cerec 3D, a two-foot tower with a swiveling monitor and a small keypad, which aims to make getting a crown a less daunting prospect. 
 The standard crown procedure involves a couple of anesthetized hours during which the dentist drills away 30 percent of a tooth, takes an impression and cements on a temporary crown. Then there is usually a two-week wait for a lab to produce the crown, and another afternoon of numbness and drilling when it is attached. 
 Cerec, introduced earlier this year by Sirona, lets dentists preserve more of the original tooth structure and create a crown while you wait. 
 For Michele Shafer, whose home is an hour and fifteen minutes from Dr. Spector's office, that meant making only a single trip for a crown; she spent more time in her car than in the chair. 
 Dr. Spector began Mrs. Shafer's procedure with an injection of anesthetic through a digital syringe that slows the flow of medication when it senses pressure, thereby making the injection almost painless. He used the Cerec infrared camera to create an optical impression of the original tooth. That step replaces the green paste and uncomfortable metal trays that are typically used to make an impression. 
 Dr. Spector then removed the diseased tissue and took a second image, which the Cerec combined with the first to create a rough 3-D model of the crown on the screen. Using a trackball, he tweaked the design, smoothing contours and adjusting the fit. He then sent the data to the milling chamber, which produced the crown in 17 minutes. 
 Not only is the process more convenient than waiting for the lab, Dr. Spector said, it also produces a stronger crown. Instead of enamel, the crown is made of compressed porcelain "40 percent stronger than what a lab can press," he said. "And the material has the same properties as enamel -- it wears away at the same rate, and it has the same thermal coefficient, so when you drink hot coffee it will expand just as much as the teeth around it." It leaves more of the original tooth intact because the material can be cemented directly to the tooth with no metal interlayer.
 "No one loves getting a crown," said Dr. Jeffrey Katz, a San Francisco dentist. "They hate the Novocain. They hate the gooey stuff. This transforms the whole experience." 
 "The biggest thing for me is the control," said Dr. George Maryniuk, a prosthodontist in Brookline, Mass. "My father was a lab technician, and I have high expectations. Now I'm guaranteed to get the results I want."
 But with its $100,000 price tag, the Cerec does not make sense for every practice. The math works out for Dr. Maryniuk, who was paying $5,000 a month in lab expenses, most of which Cerec eliminated, and now pays $2,000 a month to the Cerec leasing company. The machine reduces his costs for a crown, for example, to $30 from the usual $200 and saves him the expense of second appointments.
 That savings will have no effect on the patient's pocketbook, because dentists depend on the margin to cover their Cerec payments and the other myriad overhead costs of a high-tech office. For instance, a digital X-ray machine costs some $18,000, compared with about $4,500 for a conventional one, but dentists don't charge any more for the service, and insurance companies don't make a distinction. 
 "When I get a claim form for a crown, I don't know if it was lab-processed or Cerec," said Max Anderson, the national oral health advisor for Delta Dental, one of the nation's largest insurers. In the system, a crown is a crown. Most insurers don't even cover new diagnostic services like the Difoti, meaning that the dentist must somehow absorb the $20,000 cost.
 So dentists must analyze their needs before investing in the machines. A dentist who does few crowns or other restorations might be better off sticking with the labs, many of which are starting to use the Cerec technology. In any case, in an already capital-intensive business, the new devices put pressure on the bottom line.
 That in turn could be leading to some unnecessary treatments. "The question is, does a dentist make the same clinical decisions when he has a $20,000 machine to pay off," Dr. Anderson cautioned.
 Aided by their digital cameras, Dr. Feuerstein said, some dentists are selling cosmetic procedures that they might not have suggested before. "It's like the extreme makeover reality shows," he said. "Dentists will take a patient with 'ugly' teeth and show them what they could look like with facades and laser-shaped gums."
 On balance, most dentists view the new dental technologies as a positive force. "Today, cavities are a universal disease," said Dr. Frederick C. Eichmiller, director of the Paffenbarger Research Center of the American Dental Association. "In the future, it won't be." Dr. Eichmiller and his team in Gaithersburg, Md., are developing toothpastes and rinses that will help teeth repair themselves, as skin or bones do. They are also working on "smart fillings" that will detect decay and release a healing mixture of minerals.
 What will that mean for the high-tech dentist? "Remember," Dr. Katz said, "the goal of dentistry is to put ourselves out of business." 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Circuits on Thursday about high-tech dental equipment misstated the price of one tool, Difoti, a digital imaging system for detecting tooth decay. It is $6,495, not $20,000.
The article also referred imprecisely to another tool, Cerec, used to create crowns. Its basic technology was developed in the early 1980's, and a machine on which it is used in many dentists' offices, the Cerec 3, has existed since 2000; Cerec 3D is the latest software for it, introduced this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: EARLY WARNING -- Using a dental imaging system, Dr. Andrew Spector can discover budding problems that might be missed by traditional X-rays or visual examination. (Photo by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times))(pg. G1); DIGITAL TWEAK -- Dr. John Flucke, near right, can create a crown in minutes with a device that displays a model on a monitor and then mills it to his specifications. (Photographs by L.G. Patterson for The New York Times)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); DENTISTRY (90%); CAVITIES (89%); LASERS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); PERIODONTAL DISEASES (73%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (70%); FIBER OPTICS (70%); PHYSICS (69%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (67%); INSURANCE (50%) TEETH AND DENTISTRY; FIBER OPTICS; LASER (LIGHT AMPLIFICATION BY STIMULATED EMISSION OF RADIATION); X-RAYS 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (52%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: SCANLON, JESSIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



86 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; 
101st Airborne Scores Success In Northern Iraq

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: RABIYA, Iraq 

 BODY:
Col. Michael Linnington's brigade fought its way across Iraq. But one of his most unusual missions took place in this remote northwestern corner of the country.
 His orders were simple -- to work out agreement between local sheiks and Iraqi customs officials to restore trade with Syria. What was unusual was that the decision had been initiated not by the State Department or civilian administrators in Baghdad, but by Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander of the Army's 101st Airborne Division and the dominant political figure in Mosul and the surrounding areas in northern Iraq. 
 Three months later, there is a steady stream of cross-border traffic, and the modest fees that the division set for entering Iraq -- $10 per car, $20 per truck -- have raised revenue for expanded customs forces and other projects in the region. 
A five-day trip through the 101st Division's large area of operation showed that American military, not the civilian-led occupation authority based in Baghdad, are the driving force in the region's political and economic reconstruction.
The ethnic makeup of the north -- a diverse blend of Arabs, Kurds, Turkoman and tribes -- is less hostile to the American presence than the troublesome Sunni triangle around Baghdad, although it has the potential for ethnic strife. But that only partly explains the military's relative success here.
Other elements are the early deployment of a potent American force large enough to establish control, the quick establishment of new civil institutions, run by Iraqis, and a selective use of raids to capture hostile groups or individuals while minimizing the disruption to local civilians.
Another factor has been an American commander who approached so-called nation-building as a central military mission and who was prepared to act while the civilian authority in Baghdad was still getting organized.
An Army general who holds an advanced degree in international relations from Princeton, General Petraeus was steeped in nation-building before he arrived in Iraq. He served as the assistant chief of staff for operations for SFOR, the international peacekeeping force in Bosnia. His division is also well suited for its mission. Unlike an armored unit, it has lot of infantry soldiers -- nearly 7,000 -- to conduct foot patrols and stay in touch with the local population. It also has 250 helicopters to travel across northern Iraq.
"We walk, and walking has a quality of its own," the general says. "We're like cops on the beat."
Under General Petraeus, the 101st established an Iraqi governing council for the city of Mosul and the larger Nineveh Province before L. Paul Bremer III, the head of the Coalition Provisional Authority, arrived in Baghdad. 
The 101st has also established an employment office for former Iraqi military officers, found grain silos for local farmers and trained the local police.
In some cases, like the creation of an internal Iraqi security force, the 101st developed policies that Mr. Bremer's authority only recently embraced.
"If there is a vacuum in the guidance from Baghdad or from Washington, Petraeus will study the situation and take action," said Gordon Rudd, the historian for the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance, the civilian authority in Iraq before Mr. Bremer's appointment.
Dr. Hunain M. al-Qaddo, a member of the Mosul city council and chairman of its committee on humanitarian assistance, said he has never met with representatives from Mr. Bremer's occupation authority; the real authority, as far as he is concerned, is the 101st.
"They work hard to do the right thing, though sometimes they are inclined to impose their will on us," he said.
Dick Naab, the northern coordinator for Mr. Bremer's occupation authority, said in an e-mail response that General Petraeus "has been key to setting up and running the Nineveh government."
But Mr. Naab noted that the occupation authority had provided millions of dollars for the 101st's reconstruction efforts, had helped by identifying potential projects and is involved in several cities outside Mosul.
"The 101st is 20,000 plus larger than C.P.A. North," Mr. Naab added, using the initial for his northern office. "We are a very small force, but we do our part very well."
The 101st Division's sense of mission is swiftly apparent at General Petraeus's command center inside a Mosul palace.
"We are in a race to win over the people," reads a sign. "What have you and your element done today to contribute to victory?"
The 101st has beefed up its team of military lawyers and focused on civil projects. In the last three months, the division has spent more than $17 million on reconstruction and other civil tasks, using funds provided by Mr. Bremer's authority.
"Money is ammunition," reads one of the division's briefing slides. When his units exhaust their funds, General Petraeus arranges for additional cash from Mr. Bremer's authority or from the division's coffers.
Each morning, General Petraeus receives a status report from his commanders in an hourlong radio call. Told recently that a nationwide project to buy police vehicles and radios for the police was held up in Baghdad, he told his soldiers to press ahead.
"Buy them with my funds," he ordered.
In terms of security, this region does not present as great a threat as the Sunni triangle near Baghdad. But northern Iraq has its dangers and challenges. It was soldiers from the 101st Airborne who surrounded the Mosul house where the sons of Saddam Hussein, Uday and Qusay, were discovered and who fired the 12 Tow missiles that killed them after commandos from Task Force 20 withdrew under a hail of gunfire. That same week, six of the division's soldiers were killed in guerrilla attacks, two more than died during the fight to Baghdad.
The 101st's soldiers still come under attack by rocket-propelled grenades and improvised explosive devices. Each day, there are about three to five "hostile contacts."
In general, however, the division has stressed the selective use of force. When the 101st mounts a raid, its soldiers do not burst in. They surround the house and then go to the door and knock. When Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez, the chief allied commander, said recently that he planned to abandon the use of huge dragnets because they were alienating the Iraqi public, he was taking a step toward an approach the 101st has sought to use from the start.
Paying compensation is part of the division's strategy to discourage revenge killings. When the division's soldiers recently got into an exchange of gunfire with a small group of looters and killed one, it paid $1,000 in reparations to the dead man's family. Money is also paid for damage to Iraqi homes. More than $200,000 in reparations has been paid so far.
Overseeing Mosul was just about the last thing the 101st had in mind when American forces invaded Iraq. General Petraeus was convinced that his soldiers would be among the first to get to Baghdad. But after the American military was attacked by paramilitary forces in the rear, the 101st was ordered to clear the southern Iraqi cities of Najaf and Karbala before moving north. The Army's Third Infantry Division got to Baghdad first. 
After its soldiers followed the Third division to Baghdad, the 101st was ordered to secure Mosul, a city of nearly two million people. It was also to take control of the territory to the west that stretches to the Syrian border, as well as Kurdish areas to Mosul's north and east.
Col. Joe Anderson, the commander of the Second Brigade of the 101st, said he arrived on April 22 to find Mosul in a state of upheaval. A local businessman had proclaimed himself the head of the region. Marines from the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit, who were initially ordered to secure the city, had ignited a popular uproar by raising the American flag over the mayor's office. The marines later left for the airfield on the outskirts of the city after exchanges of fire that Iraqis said claimed 17 civilian lives.
Colonel Anderson quickly moved more than 1,600 soldiers into the city center. The next step was political. Within a few days, General Petraeus began negotiations with the various ethnic groups and tribes to form a local governing council. A caucus was convened, and a mayor was picked on May 9.
To guard against an abuse of power, the new mayor is not allowed to run for re-election. The makeup of the rest of the interim council is an ethnic balancing act; while the mayor is an Arab, his chief deputy is a Kurd.
Throughout this period there was little guidance from the American-led occupation authority in Baghdad, which was focused on working in the capital. Even today, Mr. Bremer's authority has no permanent representatives in about half of the 18 provinces in Iraq.
For the division, the absence of guidance from Baghdad was not a problem.
One early example of its readiness to take action was paying government workers. There were funds in the Central Bank but no government to authorize their disbursement. So General Petraeus wrote a letter -- stamped by the division's notary public -- decreeing that the funds be provided.
The division has also pushed to amend national policies where it sees fit. More than 100 professors at the university in Mosul were barred from returning to work because of the occupation authority's ban on hiring former high-level members of Mr. Hussein's Baath Party. The professors argued that they had been required to join the party, and that the university had been unable to complete the school year without them. The 101st Division persuaded Mr. Bremer's authority to make a temporary exception.
Outside of Mosul, other brigade commanders have been immersed in the effort to build trust and thus a new Iraq. Near Quarriya, Col. Ben Hodges, commander of the division's First Brigade, encountered so many Iraqis who believed that the sunglasses and night vision goggles the soldiers wear enable them to see through women's clothes that he invited local sheiks to come to his base and try out the equipment.
For Colonel Linnington and his soldiers of the Third Brigade, reopening the border with Syria was a priority. Salaries in Mosul were about to be paid using American dollars, and General Petraeus believed that that would spur inflation unless the supply of goods expanded. 
The 150 Iraqi customs officials who used to run the border crossing insisted on keeping their jobs, while the local Shamir tribe also wanted control. Financed by the border crossing fees, an additional 100 positions were given to the tribe.
The next step was to notify Syria that trade was to be resumed. The division's lawyers drafted a letter, which was handed across the border. It was signed by General Petraeus.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, commander of the 101st Airborne Division, met with local sheiks in the northern Iraq village of Jedalla Sofla, where he attended the reopening of a medical clinic and an elementary school. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A15) Map of Iraq shows the location of Rabiya: A G.I. colonel in Rabiya helped restore Iraqi trade with Syria. (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); POLITICS (70%); RELIGION (70%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (61%); AGRICULTURE (60%); TRENDS (60%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%); HELICOPTERS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; GRAIN; FARMERS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLICE; SUNNI MOSLEMS 

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (89%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; PETRAEUS, DAVID H (GEN); BREMER, L PAUL III 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (93%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ); MOSUL (IRAQ); SYRIA; NINEVEH PROVINCE (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



87 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Something to Talk About 

BYLINE:  By Matthew Miller; Matthew Miller, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, is author of "The 2 Percent Solution: Fixing America's Problems in Ways Liberals and Conservatives Can Love."

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
When the Democratic presidential contenders meet in Albuquerque tonight for the first of their official fall debates, they'll be hamstrung not only by their "nine dwarfs" tableau and by President Bush's popularity, but also by a loss of ambition that has perversely narrowed the boundaries of domestic debate.
 Consider one of the most pressing issues, health care. John Edwards and Joseph Lieberman have unveiled plans to expand coverage that are more modest than the proposal offered by President George H. W. Bush in 1992 (which would have covered 30 million of the then 35 million uninsured). On the supposedly "liberal" side, Howard Dean, John Kerry and Richard Gephardt say they eventually want to cover everyone. But in the years ahead their various plans would reach perhaps 30 million of today's 41 million uninsured. No serious Democratic contender today would endorse Richard Nixon's plans from the early 1970's for universal health coverage and a minimum family income: Nixon's package was far too liberal. 
 Health care may be the most glaring example, but the same timidity characterizes Democratic talk on schools, wages and more. Millions of poor children, for example, are systematically warehoused with the nation's least qualified teachers, making a mockery of Washington's pledge to "leave no child behind." Yet no Democrat is offering a serious plan to raise teachers' salaries to lure a new generation of talent to urban schools. Fifteen million people live in poverty despite being in homes headed by full-time workers. Yet no Democrat has presented anything bolder than a modest hike in the minimum wage that might bring its value, adjusted for inflation, to what that wage was worth in the late 1970's. 
What happened to the Democratic Party's willingness to take on the problems facing ordinary people? Since 1994, when the Clinton health care plan imploded in a fiasco that cost the party control of Congress, Democrats have been too scared to think big again. Republicans, emboldened by this timidity, have reacted by pushing harder on their traditional priorities of cutting taxes and regulations. As a result, a commitment to two longstanding American ideals -- equal opportunity and a minimally decent life for citizens of a wealthy nation -- has been lost.
Bringing these ideals back to the political mainstream requires a fresh approach. Democrats need to frame these issues as matters of common sense, not as part of any particular ideology. Democrats also need to realize that the means by which the nation achieves these goals is less important than a shared commitment to results. For instance, if we can give uninsured families generous vouchers (or tax credits) to buy health coverage at group rates from regulated private insurers, we should do it -- not hold out for a traditionally liberal, government-centered solution. This is a moment for pragmatism in the service of ambitious goals, not doctrinal purity that remains marginalized.
What American politics urgently needs, in other words, is not a new left, but a new center. Democrats need to refocus domestic debate around a handful of fundamental goals on which all Americans can agree -- goals that in turn become the new basis for setting fiscal priorities and tradeoffs.
Yes, there will be fights over details. But if we first ask what equal opportunity and a decent life in America mean, can't we agree that anyone who works full time should be able to provide for his or her family? That every citizen should have basic health coverage? And that special efforts should be made to make sure that poor children have good schools?
Fixing these problems will take federal dollars, an amount of cash that is mistakenly viewed as "unaffordably liberal" under existing terms of debate. In fact, an agenda that covered the uninsured, subsidized a new living wage of $9 an hour and adequately compensated teachers would cost less than two cents on the national dollar, or 2 percent of the nation's gross domestic product.
Such new angles of vision are necessary if we're to get serious about America's biggest domestic problems. But the first step is for Democrats to climb out of their decade-long crouch. Republicanshave been allowed to frame the conversation for so long that the terms of public debate have become surreal. After all, Margaret Thatcher would have been tossed from office if she'd proposed anything as radically conservative as Bill Clinton's health plan -- which still would have left several million people uncovered and had the private sector deliver the medicine. 
As Democrats start sprinting toward their primaries, the candidate who can take what the Republican Party denigrates as "wild-eyed liberal dreams" and reframe them properly as simple common sense will have the best chance to beat President Bush -- and of deserving to. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); FAMILY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); POOR POPULATION (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); CHILD POVERTY (71%); CHILDREN (71%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); POVERTY RATES (64%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (78%); RICHARD NIXON (78%); JOHN EDWARDS (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) MILLER, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (90%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



88 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Small Businesses, Big Growth 

BYLINE:  By Alexander von Hoffman; Alexander von Hoffman, senior fellow at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard, is author of "House by House, Block by Block: The Rebirth of America's Urban Neighborhoods."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Believe it or not, the little guys in the so-called outer boroughs could help revive New York City's economy. Small businesses have emerged as a strong growth sector in the city -- and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg should find new ways to support them.
 While financial services and other sectors still languish, according to the National Association of Purchasing Management-New York, small businesses, often owned and patronized by immigrants and minorities, have been growing. Leading this expansion are specialty and ethnic-food manufacturers, like the bakeries that produce rolls for high-end restaurants and sausage makers that serve immigrant neighborhoods. Over the last year the number of people these businesses employ grew by almost 8 percent -- probably more, since many firms go unreported. 
 Food producers are only the most visible among many small-scale industries that are thriving and poised to expand. Evidence, albeit fragmentary, suggests there is growth in construction, specialty apparel, medical instruments and luxury consumer goods like jewelry.
Unfortunately, New York offers few programs aimed at such businesses. To its credit, the city government recently announced it would develop 10 sites in Brooklyn and the Bronx for much-needed industrial space. There are also some tax incentives, like credits for utility bills and waivers for manufacturers trying to develop facilities. Reflecting New York's labyrinthine regulatory environment, the city also offers help dealing with its own agencies, including the departments of sanitation, health and police.
Most small manufacturers, however, will not use these services. They are too busy running their business, and some may fear that if they contact the government, officials will interfere with their business or workers.
So what can New York do to reach these business owners? A useful lesson can be found in Los Angeles, where in the early 1990's small manufacturers helped bring some prosperity to urban neighborhoods there.
After the devastation left by the riots of 1992, Los Angeles and California officials looked to large corporations to revive the city. As head of an ad hoc reconstruction agency, Peter Ueberroth (the former baseball commissioner and current candidate for governor of California) tried to persuade many chief executives to move some operations to the inner city. The oil, aerospace and movie industries were all staggering in the 1990's, however, and Mr. Ueberroth had little success.
But his successor, Linda Griego, sensed life in the inner city. Ms. Griego, a former chili stand operator and deputy mayor for economic development, commissioned a door-to-door survey of businesses operating in South Central Los Angeles and other forsaken areas.
To nearly everyone's surprise, inner-city Los Angeles turned out to be an industrial beehive. Its 15,000 companies employed more than 360,000 people -- mainly immigrants and minorities -- and generated more than $54 billion in sales annually of everything from tortillas to bicycling outfits. But -- as in New York -- most of the proprietors knew little about government programs and sometimes operated outside government rules.
Ms. Griego, along with the nonprofit Community Development Technologies Center and eventually the city government, adopted an unusual strategy to deal with the mom-and-pop entrepreneurs. They worked directly with the small manufacturers to help them organize trade associations, navigate government regulations and upgrade the skills of their workers. In the end, small manufactures succeeded where large industry failed: they helped rescue the economy of inner-city Los Angeles.
Of course, Los Angeles is not New York. New York is far larger -- both in terms of population and the size of its government -- and it has not relied on industry to drive its economy the way Los Angeles has. But the Bloomberg administration can certainly do more to encourage small-scale manufacturing.
To begin with, economic development officials must learn about the city's disparate manufacturers and identify the issues they face. Government officials, perhaps in cooperation with a business association or nonprofit group, should undertake a systematic study of small industry in the city -- mindful of the need for street-by-street canvassing because corporate records and permits may not reveal every business.
Having identified the most important industries, the city government could help organize trade associations. Since many small-business owners are so intently focused on their company, they are notoriously isolated from one another. Together, manufacturers can overcome their shared problems. Owners of small ethnic-food businesses in Los Angeles, for example, lobbied the state to block a steep hike in inspection fees -- something they could never have done without banding together.
New York's government should also go beyond the tax waivers and credits it now provides and actually reduce the taxes on small businesses. This would ensure that costs of operating in New York do not prevent companies from expanding -- and it would also increase the rate of tax collection because fewer businesses would dodge taxes. Finally, the Bloomberg administration should reduce the bureaucracy and red tape that often make running a legitimate enterprise in New York City a logistical nightmare.
By taking such steps, Mayor Bloomberg can unleash the energies of small-fry entrepreneurs busily operating in the boroughs -- and help them revive the economy of New York City.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Red Nose Studio) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); RIOTS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); BAKERIES (75%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); FOOD MFG (75%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (70%); MEDICAL DEVICES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); BASEBALL (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) VON HOFFMAN, ALEXANDER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



89 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Universal To Cut Prices Of Its CD's 

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
Battered by online piracy, the Universal Music Group, the world's largest record company, said yesterday that it would cut prices on compact discs by as much as 30 percent in an aggressive attempt to lure consumers back into record stores.
 The deep price cut -- the only one to apply to new CD's since the format was introduced in the early 1980's -- represents a gamble by Universal that more consumers will buy more CD's once the price dips below $13. It also reflects the profound degree to which Internet file-trading has managed to undermine the music business, Universal executives said. 
 "We are in the middle of a terrible situation where our music is being stolen," said Doug Morris, chairman of Universal, which includes labels like A&M and Island Def Jam and artists like Eminem, Elton John and U2. "We need to invigorate the market, and as an industry leader we felt we had to be bold and make a move." 
Under the new pricing scheme, Universal would lower its wholesale price on a CD to $9.09 from $12.02. The company said it expected retail stores to lower CD prices to $12.98, from the $16.98 to $18.98 they now charge, and perhaps to as low as $10. When CD's first arrived on the market they cost $15.98, and have climbed from there.
The result could be a broadening of the music market, which has contracted as prices have increased. Music consumers have complained for years that CD prices are too high, and many people who copy music online without paying for it cite high prices as the main reason.
"Music is not supposed to be an elitist product," said Josh Bernoff, an analyst at Forrester Research. "We're not talking about Lexus here. It's better to have more people buying music at a lower price than to have it priced out of the market."
But the move will put even greater pressure on Universal's profit margins at a time when the company is experiencing sharp revenue declines. And some music industry analysts caution that high prices and piracy are not the only reason CD sales have dropped off.
Some of the research on older consumers shows that "not finding what they want is more of a reason for not buying than pricing," said Russ Crupnick, vice president of the NPD Group, a market research firm. "They still need to put out content that's appealing to people," he said, referring to the record companies.
Whether price cuts will revitalize the company's sales will depend largely on how retailers pass them on to consumers. A spokesman for Tower Records said no one was available to comment last night, but large retailers have traditionally sold new CD's at a discount from the suggested list price.
Universal also plans to shift tens of millions of dollars in advertising revenue from in-store promotions to television and print ads featuring the $12.98 price in an effort to drive consumers into stores.
Several other major record labels said they had no comment on Universal's price cuts. But industry analysts said it was probable that others would follow the company's lead.
Universal, which is owned by Vivendi Universal, sees the price cuts as part of a larger strategy to discourage people from copying music using file-swapping programs like KaZaA. The Recording Industry Association of America, the industry's trade organization, is expected to file suit next week against hundreds of people suspected of illegally trading music online. 
The labels have also begun licensing their music to online music services like iTunes of Apple Computer, which allows songs to be downloaded for 99 cents each.
"What we're trying to show people is that music is a good value, even if you have to pay for it," said Zach Horowitz, president of Universal Music.
But some analysts said the price cut signaled a long-awaited recognition that the music industry needed to adjust its business model to fit a world where music can be sold or copied song by song. That might mean the industry needs to sell more music for less to make the same amount of money.
"This is a step toward realizing the reality of what business conditions are today," said Hal Vogel, author of "Entertainment Industry Economics"(Cambridge University Press, 1998). Mr. Vogel said that some estimates indicate that the record industry's revenues worldwide had declined to $30 billion from $40 billion a year in the late 1990's. "The cuts are going to put a squeeze on profit margins but it will allow them to start building a relationship with the public again," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Universal Music plans to trim prices on its CD's by as much 30 percent in an effort to lure consumers back into stores like this one in New York. (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MUSIC STORES (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); MATURE MARKET (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (60%) MUSIC; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDINGS (AUDIO); COMPACT DISCS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%) SIC3652 PRERECORDED COMPACT DISCS; 

PERSON: DOUG MORRIS (73%); ELTON JOHN (58%) MORRIS, DOUG; HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



90 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Schumer Acts to Help Workers Form Unions 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Citing organized labor's declining membership, Senator Charles E. Schumer introduced legislation today that would overhaul federal laws to make it easier for workers to join unions.
 The senator's action comes as labor leaders openly question the future of the labor movement now that union membership has fallen to 13 percent of the work force, from 35 percent in the 1950's. 
 The bill introduced by Mr. Schumer, a Democrat from New York, would require companies to recognize unions once a majority of their workers signed pro-union cards in a process known as card check. He noted that 32 percent of the work force was unionized in Canada, where federal labor law and many provincial statutes allow workers to engage in the card check process.
"With the economy in the tank and incomes of average Americans stagnant, workers need unions like never before," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%) Labor; Organized Labor; Law and Legislation

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (92%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



91 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: For the Democrats, No Lack of Advice 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your headline "Worried Democrats See Daunting '04 Hurdles" (front page, Aug. 31) seems to sum up much that is wrong with the Democratic Party. 
 You refer to party leaders as "fearful of what they view as President Bush's huge advantage going into next year's election." 
What exactly is that "huge advantage"? I see a president with falling approval ratings, a quagmire in Iraq equal to the most pessimistic prewar estimates, increasing deficits, staggering unemployment figures and an arrogant disregard for the environment. 
All of this from a man who didn't even capture the popular vote!
Defeating George W. Bush is not only possible, it should be easy, as long as there is a candidate willing to say that the Bush presidency has been a disaster for this country and that we cannot afford another four years of it. 
The Democratic Party seems to feel that this is a message that the country is not ready to hear. The average voter is less craven than the party leadership and well understands how vulnerable Mr. Bush is.

KATHLEEN GULLEY
New York, Aug. 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TERRORISM (59%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PUBLIC OPINION; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) GULLEY, KATHLEEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



92 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Bertelsmann Encounters Some Turbulence 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
A day after the French media conglomerate Vivendi Universal struck a deal with General Electric to exit the global entertainment business, Europe's other big media empire, Bertelsmann of Germany, demonstrated the costs of staying in that business.
 The company reported a 10 percent decline in sales, and a 91 percent drop in net income in the first half of this year, as its music and book-publishing properties in the United States faltered in a harsh market. 
 The Bertelsmann Music Group, in particular, hit rough water, reporting operating losses of 117 million euros ($126 million) in the first half, nearly triple its losses in the period last year.
The music group's dismal numbers are a fresh headache for Bertelsmann's top executives in Gutersloh, who are negotiating with AOL Time Warner to merge the music business with the Warner Music Group. 
Executives at both companies say the talks have bogged down over how to value their respective assets. In its first formal offer in late August, AOL proposed a joint venture that would be 60 percent owned by Warner. Bertelsmann, seeking a 50-50 venture, balked at that proposal, according to these people.
While BMG, as the music division is known, is smaller than Warner in sales, it arguably has a higher profit margin on its sales, which could be a highly useful negotiating lever for Bertelsmann. Today's results, however, may weaken its bargaining position, industry executives said.
BMG attributed the red ink to a combination of delayed album releases, write-offs of costly recording contracts with Whitney Houston and other stars, and the industry's broader battle against piracy.
"We're in a situation where there are a number of issues working against us, and piracy is just one of them," said Michael Smellie, BMG's chief operating officer. "They are having a devastating effect."
The turmoil in the music industry is a major reason Vivendi did not auction off its Universal Music Group, along with the film studio, cable television networks and theme parks. The company felt that it could not command a decent price for the unit.
The talks between BMG and Warner, already fluid, could become more tangled with rumors of interest by another major record company, EMI, in striking a deal with Warner.
Industry executives said a bid by EMI, which has circled several music companies, was a long shot. They noted that Bertelsmann and Warner had agreed to extend for several weeks an agreement to negotiate with each other exclusively.
Some industry executives regard a joint venture between BMG and Warner as a way for Bertelsmann to extricate itself from music. The company's chairman, Gunter Thielen, insists that he remains committed.
"We believe music will recover in two to three years," he said in an interview in July. "There will be music in 50 years."
Still, the view from Germany, where piracy is rampant, is unremittingly bleak. Mr. Smellie noted that the German recording industry's sales plunged 21.5 percent in the first half of this year. Sales fell 10.5 percent worldwide, while they fell 7.8 percent in North America.
Nearly half of BMG's losses resulted from write-downs of recording contracts of artists signed to one of its labels, Arista. Those contracts had to be renegotiated after the departure of Arista's founder, Clive Davis, in 2000. Mr. Smellie said the slow sales of recent albums by these performers, including Whitney Houston and Toni Braxton, proved the deals were too generous.
BMG was also hobbled by a delay in the release of albums by popular bands like Outkast and the Strokes. Mr. Smellie said those albums, plus 20 other new releases from performers like Britney Spears and Rod Stewart, would help BMG recover in the second half of this year.
He said BMG was confident of meeting its goal of matching 2002's operating profit of $125 million.
Bertelsmann's other major American division, Random House, is also counting on a sales surge to lift it out of a hole. Its sales fell 26 percent in the first half, to 747 million euros ($805 million), compared with 2002, while operating profits shrank 57 percent, to 29 million euros ($31 million).
In a letter to employees, Peter W. Olson, the Random House chairman, said the results were pulled down by "currency exchange rate fluctuations, ongoing difficult retail marketplace conditions, and the weak economy."
Mr. Olson said some Random House imprints delayed new books to spare them the hostile retail market. In the fall, when book sales traditionally crest, Random House plans to publish hardcover fiction by John Grisham, Toni Morrison and Danielle Steel, and a memoir by the singer Sting.
In his memo, Mr. Olson said he was confident that Random House would have a "good full fiscal year," though he stopped short of saying the company would meet its targets.
Mr. Thielen has not backed off his promise that the parent company will generate more operating profit this year than it did last year. In the first half, it reported net income of 142 million euros ($153 million), on sales of 7.8 billion euros ($8.5 billion).
To do that, Bertelsmann will depend heavily on its European television group, RTL, which had a 44 percent increase in profit in the first half. RTL now accounts for the bulk of the parent company's profit.
Bertelsmann's results confirm what people inside and outside the company have been saying since its boardroom shake-up last summer: The United States has become the weak link in a far-flung empire.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Delays in the release of new albums by the Strokes, above, and Outkast were part of the troubles experienced by the Bertelsmann Music Group. (Photo by Jeff Vespa/WirelImage.com); Gunter Thielen, chief executive of Bertelsmann, remains confident the company's music unit will regain its footing in the coming years. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); JOINT VENTURES (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); BOOK PUBLISHING (71%); RECORD RELEASES (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (61%) COMPANY REPORTS; MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (93%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (91%); AOL INC (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (56%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BERTELSMANN AG 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (93%); VIV (BIT) (93%); AOL (NYSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (91%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (56%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: WHITNEY HOUSTON (79%) LANDLER, MARK; THIELEN, GUNTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (58%) EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



93 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Suez Is Expected to Sell Off Its Water Treatment Division 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Suez, the French utility, is expected to announce on Thursday that it is selling Ondeo Nalco, its water treatment and environmental service business, to an alliance of private equity investors for about $4 billion, people close to the negotiations said today.
 Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the Blackstone Group and Apollo Management are expected to buy Ondeo Nalco, with each buyer taking an equal share. Suez, which is the world's second-largest water company, will probably announce the deal on Thursday during the presentation of its first-half results, these people said. 
 Ondeo Nalco provides chemicals for water treatment and other processing services to industries like paper manufacturing, mining and oil refining. The company has 60,000 customers and had about 50 million euros ($54.3 million) in net profit in 2002, according to estimates by Merrill Lynch.
Like many other utilities, Suez expanded rapidly in the late 1990's through a series of richly priced deals, and has spent this year paring down and selling assets. On Tuesday, Vivendi Universal, which began the last decade as the water and waste company Compagnie Generale des Eaux, said that it was in exclusive talks to sell its Universal entertainment division to NBC, a division of General Electric.
Suez announced a plan in January to reduce the company's 26 billion euros of debt ($28 billion), streamline the organization and pull out of emerging markets. Suez reported a net loss of 863 million euro or $938 million for 2002. Since the plan was announced, the company has sold assets worth about 6 billion euros.
The Ondeo Nalco division of Suez includes the company's water treatment businesses Nalco, which Suez acquired in 2000 for 4 billion euros ($4.34 billion); Calgon, which was acquired in 1999 for $425 million; and a part of Aquazur, Suez's own water treatment division. Private equity companies and banks have been big buyers of water companies and utility assets this year, particularly in Britain.
Suez has been quietly shopping these assets for about a month. Goldman and Apollo joined the Blackstone Group after Suez approved Blackstone as a buyer. The French utility and Blackstone have a 15-year history of doing deals together. In 1990, Blackstone, a private equity fund, aligned itself with Banque Indosuez, an investment bank owned by Suez, to focus on corporate mergers and other deals in France and the United States.
Analysts said they were puzzled by the timing and the nature of the sale. Suez is "getting out for a lot less than they got in for," because the company is selling in a slow economy, said Chris Rogers, a Merrill Lynch analyst who rates Suez stock as neutral.
The Ondeo Nalco deal raises more questions about Suez's overall strategy, Mr. Rogers said. Many of the assets Suez has sold this year have been core operations in stable countries, rather than emerging market units, he said. Suez sold 75 percent of Northumbrian, a British water utility, in May for $3.7 billion. It sold Compania Espanola de Servicios Publicos Auxiliares, a Spanish industrial waste company, in August for $579 million.
"Why are they selling these assets when they have plenty of other ones?" Mr. Rogers asked. "They're giving up growth." The deal also increases the portion of Suez capital invested in emerging markets, contrary to the company's intentions in its January plan, he said.
Suez, which was formed 150 years ago as the Suez Canal Company, reported group revenue of 20.7 billion euros for the first half on July 31, a 4.3 percent increase from the year before. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (90%); EURO (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); PAPER MILLS (55%); PAPER MFG (55%) WATER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: NALCO HOLDING CO (92%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); VIVENDI (69%); VEOLIA WATER SA (58%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); BANQUE INDOSUEZ SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SUEZ (CO); ONDEO NALCO; GOLDMAN SACHS CAPITAL PARTNERS; BLACKSTONE GROUP; APOLLO MANAGEMENT LP 

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (84%); VIV (PAR) (69%); VIV (BIT) (69%); APO (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (92%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (69%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS237110 WATER & SEWER LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (58%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: TIMMONS, HEATHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



94 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Bodybuilder's New Goal: Learning Curve on Policy 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
The hosts of the debate tonight had considered placing an empty chair and a placard reading "Arnold Schwarzenegger" at the end of the table to highlight his absence. But in the end, they thought it wiser to ignore Mr. Schwarzenegger, who was400 miles away, than to pay him notice.
 Still, his critics have tagged Mr. Schwarzenegger as an actor riding his Hollywood popularity rather than a substantive candidate for governor with intellectual bona fides. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger is playing catch-up. He works more than 12 hours a day educating himself on everything from the power grid to school construction. He did not duck the debate because he was uninformed or unsure, his aides said, but because he had little to gain. 
"Is it in his interest to get pilloried as the front-runner?" asked a senior strategist for Mr. Schwarzenegger who added that internal polls showed him ahead of Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante by five percentage points.
"He'll get better out there, when he's comfortable with material, when he knows timber and water policy," the strategist said. "He's getting there."
The education goes on daily, with an endless procession of policy experts traipsing to his headquarters in Santa Monica. Sometimes, they go to his home for coffee discussions or to Schatzi, his beachside restaurant, for dinner conversations.
People at the briefings say Mr. Schwarzenegger prefers to read along with his tutors' policy papers. An aide takes notes, and after hours of questions and answers, Mr. Schwarzenegger breaks down complicated issues into digestible catchalls like: "Special interests have a stranglehold on Sacramento. Here's how it works. Money comes in, favors go out. The people lose." 
Those words have made it into a new 15-second television advertisement with this coda, "We need to send a message: Game over."
His director of policy research and writing, Paul Miner, said that what the candidate lacked in knowledge, he made up for in buoyancy and desire. 
"We concentrate a little more on the basics, the fundamentals," Mr. Miner said. "There are some things, admittedly, that he hasn't thought of as a private citizen. But it's a benefit. He brings a regular-guy, common-sense view to it." 
Mr. Schwarzenegger's advisers characterize him as nimble-minded and a voracious reader. He bases his pro-growth, low-tax values in part, he says, on the work of the economist Milton Friedman and the philosophy of Howard Jarvis, author of "I'm Mad as Hell," the California antitax manifesto.
Edward E. Leamer, an economics professor at the University of California at Los Angeles, is one of 18 people Mr. Schwarzenegger brought together as his Economic Recovery Council. "I'm on record suggesting tax increases, and he is against them," Professor Leamer said.
The professor, who opposed recalling Gov. Gray Davis but now views the vote as an opportunity for fundamental changes, met Mr. Schwarzenegger at his home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. They discussed a bloated civil work force, a bond rating that costs the state hundreds of millions of dollars a year in interest and a shrinking employment market.
Professor Leamer credits him for at least listening for three hours. "He strikes me as a can-do kind of guy, a cheerleader," he said. "It's not about specifics with him. It's about a new, more optimistic attitude, convincing citizens and business leaders that he'll hold the line on spending and growth will improve." 
Steve Smith, director of Californians Against the Costly Recall, a group that Mr. Davis set up, said Mr. Schwarzenegger dodged the debate tonight, sponsored by news media outlets, at the behest of his handlers.
"They are clearly concerned about getting the exact right thing for him," Mr. Smith said. 
Mr. Schwarzenegger has accepted an invitation for one debate, from the California Broadcasters Association late this month in Sacramento. The debaters will be given the questions in advance.
"The only debate he accepted is the one that gives you the question the day before the test," said Bob Mulholland, campaign adviser to the California Democratic Party.
Mr. Schwarzenegger promised to be a different kind of politician when he announced his candidacy last month on "The Tonight Show" with Jay Leno. He was going to "pump up Sacramento." But at times, he sounds downright conventional. 
For instance, he flip-flopped on his promise not to take contributions from special interests. State records show that he has accepted money from some of the wealthiest people in California, many of whom have business before the state.
"I get donations from businesses and individuals absolutely, because they're powerful interests who control things," he said on Monday at the state fair in Sacramento.
Mr. Schwarzenegger's camp has tried to clarify his position. His Web site, joinarnold.com, says he does not accept contributions from "single-issue trade associations" or "public employee union PAC's."
"He's a work in progress," said William Bradley, a political writer and former adviser to the California Democratic Party. "His strength is his optimism and that he is an alternative to the political class, which is discredited. But at moments, when he is feeling particularly ebullient, caution can go to the wind."
When confronted by the news media on the campaign trail, Mr. Schwarzenegger sometimes becomes flustered and forgets to "stay on message."
If he is asked about his admissions of drug use and group sex in his salad days as the world's ultimate body, his strategists have instructed him to say he said outrageous things to sell the sport of bodybuilding.
But when asked last week about a raunchy interview he gave 25 years ago to a men's magazine, Oui, Mr. Schwarzenegger said, "I don't know what you're talking about." 
But the night before, on talk radio, he dismissed the article as bluster.
The senior strategist concedes Mr. Schwarzenegger has growing to do.
"He's learning policy and all the tangents," the strategist said. "It's not normal to learn on the job. It's exhaustive and difficult."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arnold Schwarzenegger yesterday in Long Beach, Calif. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (75%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); WRITERS (61%); TAX LAW (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) DEBATING; RECALL (ELECTIONS); ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (93%) LEDUFF, CHARLIE; SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; MINER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



95 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: California Hopefuls Debate, but Schwarzenegger Sits Out 

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY and JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WALNUT CREEK, Calif., Sept. 3 

 BODY:
With Arnold Schwarzenegger absent, five other top candidates vying to replace Gov. Gray Davis squared off today over taxation, immigration and campaign finance, in the first debate of the California recall campaign. 
 The 90-minute debate provided a rare face-to-face confrontation in a contest that has dominated the national political scene for much of the summer. 
 With the state's economy in a funk and its leaders battling a chronic budget deficit, some of the most heated exchanges focused on questions of how heavily Californians should be taxed and whether the state's 25-year-old limitations on property taxes should be tinkered with.
The debate's most conservative participant, State Senator Tom McClintock, a Republican, pledged never to raise taxes and attributed the state's woes to "stupid acts of government." Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante, a Democrat who is one of the front-runners in most opinion polls, declared that big businesses were not paying their fair share and pledged to go after them. 
Mr. Bustamante, generally considered the candidate with the most to win or lose from the televised debate, was also asked to answer for large donations he has received from Indian tribes. On Tuesday, one of the state's most politically active tribes announced that it would donate $1.5 million to his campaign and spend an additional $500,000 on his behalf. The contributions were among the biggest to any candidate in the recall race.
"I think they are showing their friendship by helping me level the playing field," Mr. Bustamante said. "I don't have that kind of wealth."
Arianna Huffington, running as an independent, promptly declared that he was engaging in "legal bribery," an accusation that led Mr. Bustamante to reply, "Tell me how you really feel."
While California's recall election has at times been mocked as a circus because 135 replacement candidates are on the ballot, the debate was in large part somber. The candidates, sitting side by side, all pressed their own cases and made only a handful of references to the missing Mr. Schwarzenegger. They also largely ignored the subject of Governor Davis.
Without the Schwarzenegger factor, the pressure was particularly intense on Mr. Bustamante, some political analysts said, because of the balancing act he needed to perform with Democratic voters. Mr. Bustamante is the only prominent Democrat on the list of possible successors to the Democratic governor.
The two men have tried to maintain at least a semblance of working in unison, with Mr. Bustamante telling supporters to vote against the recall but to support him, in the event that the recall of Mr. Davis succeeds. 
Asked today to explain how he differed from Mr. Davis, he pointed to the way the governor had handled the California energy crisis of 2000-1.
"I think I would have called their bluff," he said of a threat by energy companies to let the state go dark.
"My competition actually is these folks here on the stage," Mr. Bustamante said. "My job here is to distinguish myself with my ideas with the folks who are here and the guy who is not."
The forum generally provided an unusual front-and-center platform for both Ms. Huffington and Peter Camejo, a Green Party candidate who ran against Governor Davis last November. Both have fared poorly in recent opinion polls and have been treated largely as long shots.
In several cases, the plain-speaking Ms. Huffington directly challenged the answers of the others, at one point receiving a reprimand from the moderator for not following the agreed-upon format. Mr. Camejo, meanwhile, suggested that none of the major-party candidates was up to the task of making the tough decisions needed in California.
"There is no will," Mr. Camejo said. "Democrats and Republicans are at the service of the people who fund them. That is the difficult problem we face."
The fifth candidate, Peter V. Ueberroth, a Republican, said overspending was the state's biggest problem.
"We have been on a spending binge," Mr. Ueberroth said. "Tighten the belt."
Four of the five candidates said they had voted against Proposition 187, a 1994 ballot initiative denying basic social services to illegal immigrants. Only Mr. McClintock expressed support for the measure, which was ultimately struck down by the courts.
Though Mr. Davis was not part of the formal debate, he played the role of warm-up band, taking questions for 25 minutes ahead of the candidates' encounter. It was an important opportunity for him to speak directly to the voters in a forum that was televised statewide from a civic auditorium here about 25 miles east of San Francisco.
Mr. Davis adopted a contrite tone in his opening remarks and in responding to five citizens chosen by the debate's organizers to question him. He said he was aware of the public anger at him, and vowed to change if he is permitted to complete the four-year term to which he was elected last November.
"This has been an awakening for me," said Mr. Davis, whose approval rating in recent polls has been barely above 20 percent. "I know people are upset. It's not fun hearing it day in and day out."
He said the biggest change he would make would be to listen more closely to voters, spending less time in Sacramento and more time conducting public meetings.
"Governing should be a two-way street," he said.
The governor admitted that he had acted too slowly and too timidly in responding to the energy crisis. But he also said energy companies like Enron had manipulated the state's energy markets and caused the brownouts and huge increases in electricity costs here.
He also blamed Republicans in the State Legislature for refusing to consider tax increases to address the state's $38.2 billion budget deficit, one of the major factors that fueled the recall drive.
"They would rather shoot their mother than raise any taxes," Mr. Davis said. "I say that figuratively."
The 90-minute debate that followed ranged across the issues of taxes and tax cuts, education, immigration and campaign finance. But a shadow was cast over the session by the man who was not there: Mr. Schwarzenegger, who was hundreds of miles away in Los Angeles. Officials of his campaign said he had a family commitment and could not attend, although advisers have acknowledged that as the front-runner among Republicans, he stands to gain little in any case by appearing at more than the one debate where he has promised to participate, on Sept. 24.
Even in his absence, Mr. Schwarzenegger attracted extraordinary attention once again today, when he was struck in the shoulder with an egg during an appearance at the Long Beach campus of California State University. 
Though the debate and Governor Davis's remarks received widespread media coverage, the event's scheduling during the afternoon commute -- it was broadcast live from 4 o'clock to 6 -- most likely cut into its audience, making the post-debate coverage possibly more important than the session itself.
"The real impact is the sound bites that come out of it and the kickback in the press," said Prof. Walter J. Stone, chairman of the political science department at the University of California at Davis.
The debate was the first of at least three planned before the election. Sponsored by The Contra Costa Times, television station KTVU and KQED-FM, it was broadcast across the state, and televised nationally by C-Span.
With 135 people lined up as possible successors to Governor Davis, organizers of the debate had narrowed the field on the basis of two criteria. Invitations went to candidates who received at least 4 percent support in an opinion poll conducted last month by Field Research or who received at least 4 percent of the popular vote in last year's election for governor. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the debate, from left, Lt. Gov. Cruz M. Bustamante, Arianna Huffington, Peter Camejo, Peter V. Ueberroth and State Senator Tom McClintock. (Photo by Pool photo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); IMMIGRATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%) DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; RECALL (ELECTIONS); ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (58%) MURPHY, DEAN E; BRODER, JOHN M; SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); BUSTAMANTE, CRUZ (LT GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003 



96 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4696 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by Times critics of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "THE AMERICAN EFFECT: GLOBAL PERSPECTIVES ON THE UNITED STATES, 1990-2003," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Oct. 12). Exploring ways that artists throughout the world react to the United States as a superpower, this show of documentary films, videos, installations, photographs, paintings and objects by 47 artists and filmmakers and 3 collaborative groups runs from sunny side up to deep despair. There are reflections on America's military might, its industrial clout, its treatment of minorities, its consumerism, its justice system, its marketing strategies, its religious evangelism, its celebrity worship and its interference with other governments. On the other hand, there are more positive expressions of admiration for the freedoms, the opportunities and the material achievements of a country unfettered by ancient traditions. A wacky installation by a French artist, Gilles Barbier, in the form of life-size figures, offers a wry take on the United States through its aging comic book heroes, viewed in the setting of a nursing home and in the last stages of decrepitude. In a very different key is a video projection dealing with the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas in 1963; the work, by a Serbian artist, Zoran Naskovski, is accompanied by a poignantly chanted tribute. The show has its weak spots but is provocative and visually compelling over all. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50, students and 62+ (Grace Glueck).

"ANSEL ADAMS AT 100," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Nov. 3). This exhibition of 113 of Adams's photographs, in celebration of the 100th anniversary of his birth, has been traveling around the world for two years. In these warehouse galleries it has a strangely random and homely feel. The photographs look small and lost. Maybe it's the setting. Maybe it's because the show, organized roughly thematically -- austere peaks, plants, peaks with plants, grand vistas, rocks -- doesn't have a clearly focused concept. Or maybe it's because the curator wanted to tamp down Adams's bombast and replace it with something quieter, smaller and subtler. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays to 7:45 p.m. Admission: $12; $8.50 for students and 65+ (Sarah Boxer).

* MAX BECKMANN, Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 45-20 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through Sept. 29). Like Beckmann, this retrospective of that German genius is dense, frequently revelatory and exhausting: all that heavy-handed symbolism and claustrophobia. Beckmann can seem like a truculent master, glaring balefully at us from his self-portraits, disappointed by our moral turpitude. It is easy to get bogged down in the miasma of his obscure allusions. But he also puts brush to canvas with surprising tenderness. Color is luxurious, not garish. The humor is sly and black. Finally, he is unavoidably compelling. Hours and admission: See above (Michael Kimmelman).

* "BLACK PRESIDENT: THE ART AND LEGACY OF FELA ANIKULAPO-KUTI," New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 28). The Nigerian composer, musician and activist Fela Kuti (1938-1997) invented the musical style called Afrobeat, relentlessly assailed political corruption and repression in Africa and beyond through his records and performances and led a scandalous private life very publicly. This taut, vivacious exhibition is less about the man himself than about how 30 contemporary artists, most of them African or African-American, respond to his blazing, goading lodestar presence. Their reactions range from celebratory to critical, and few are simple, but his vision of a rejuvenated Africa still shines bright. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students, artists and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

"LOUISE BOURGEOIS: THE INSOMNIA DRAWINGS," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Sept. 21). In an eight-month run of sleep-short nights, the sculptor Louise Bourgeois turned the draggy hours to productive use, setting down thoughts, visions and memories that rose from the floor of her consciousness. What resulted are 250 drawings, considered one work by the artist, that range from simple to complex images: among them water, mazes, clocks, houses, abstract doodles, personal comments and fragments of texts. In short, a miscellany of clues to her inner and outer worlds, a scrap bag of images that may prompt her work. But while the dense, insistent visual environment they create is a bit of a phenomenon, the viewer does not really come away with a deeper understanding of the work, whose relationship to Ms. Bourgeois's deeply mined psyche is very evident in her realized art and in statements and interviews she has given over the years. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

"SALVADOR DALI: DREAM OF VENUS," Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700 (through Sept. 21). While images of the 1939 New York World's Fair in Queens remain ingrained in the American collective memory, one attraction, relegated to the "Amusement Zone," was largely forgotten until now: Dali's "Dream of Venus," a tacky Surrealist fun house with live, semi-nude women. This exhibition consists mainly of photographs that document the project from start to finish. Featuring the handsome, charismatic artist; his enigmatic wife, Gala; and lots of voluptuous, unclothed models, this show and its catalog tell a fascinating tale of idealism, opportunism, provocation and censorship. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for students and 55+ (Ken Johnson).

"DRAWN HOME: FRITZ VOGT'S RURAL AMERICA," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through Sept. 21). During the last decade of the 19th century, Vogt, a German immigrant, supported himself by making portraits of homes in upstate New York. A homeless itinerant who preferred to sleep in his patrons' barns, Vogt made wonderfully lucid, formally ingenious drawings of farms with multiple outbuildings and of elaborately decorated Victorian showpieces with manicured grounds. The 26 drawings here tap into an American ethos that elevated domestic prosperity to something like a national religion. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Admission: $9; $7, students and 62+ (Johnson).

* "EGYPT REBORN: ART FOR ETERNITY," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (permanent installation). The second and final phase in the museum's reinstallation of its world-renowned holdings of ancient Egyptian art, this dazzling display rounds up more than 600 objects -- from king-and-queen-size monuments to tiny rings and amulets -- from the predynastic period to the 18th dynasty. Viewing it together with the first phase, which opened in 1993 and covers later Egyptian art, visitors will now be able to trace the entire course of this brilliant and complex civilization from its beginnings to its absorption by the Roman Empire in 30 B.C. The heart of the new installation is an introductory gallery that provides a wonderful summation, with a survey of sculptural styles and displays of weapons, pottery, cosmetics, jewelry, furniture and funerary arts. The adjacent galleries are devoted to an extensive chronological survey. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students and 62+ (Glueck).

* "FROM EXPRESSIONISM TO THE BAUHAUS: HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART," Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 (through Sept. 15). Borrowed from the Museum of Modern Art, this economical, powerfully resonant exhibition of German Modernist artworks from the first third of the 20th century includes Expressionist paintings by Ludwig Kirchner, Otto Mueller and Emil Nolde; mordantly satiric New Realist paintings by George Grosz and Otto Dix; and sumptuously elegant utilitarian objects by Marcel Breuer and Marianne Brandt. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+ (Johnson).

"FROM PICASSO TO POLLOCK: CLASSICS OF MODERN ART," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Sept. 28). This selective anthology of perennial in-house favorites in a major museum has much to be said for it. The bait is irresistible, the promised classics turn up here and there, and both the young and the not-so-young have a fine time on the ramps. In addition to fine examples by Kandinsky, Picasso, Leger, Chagall, Kokoschka and Malevich, there is an enormous piece in ceramic tiles by Joan Miro. Begun in 1965 and finished in 1967, it is largely in black-and-white, but every touch of color sings out. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $15; $10 for students and 65+ (John Russell).

* "GREAT WAVES: CHINESE THEMES IN THE ARTS OF KOREA AND JAPAN," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sept. 21). Basically a collection reinstallation with a novel mix-and-match approach, this show, spread over both the Chinese painting and Japanese galleries, traces the flow of influence from one culture to the other. Most of the action takes place in the Chinese galleries, where the art is arranged by motifs -- seascapes, landscapes, floral images -- that emerged early in China and circulated to Korea and Japan. The model proposed will provide grist for many scholarly mills in the future; the show itself is tremendous fun to look at. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

JOSE ANTONIO HERNANDEZ-DIEZ, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 21). Born in Venezuela in 1964, Mr. Hernandez-Diez is one of several urbane Latin American artists whose work might be described as a kind of vernacular conceptualism, a physically reductive, idea-rich art made from scraps of everyday consumerist life. His New Museum solo incorporates skateboards, household furniture, a stuffed pet dog, fake fingernails, baseball bats and photographs of designer sneakers, all put to unexpected uses. The results can be read in terms of local associations, but the real focus is on commonly shared experiences: appetite, rootlessness, faith and delusion, violence, the collective unconscious of globalized culture. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

ELLSWORTH KELLY, "Red Green Blue," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Nov. 2). Mr. Kelly was the Chet Baker of the new, cool painters of the post-Abstract Expressionist generation. From the late 50's to the mid-60's he produced a series of paintings using the colors red, blue and green. On view in this show, they still sing. With their optically dazzling, high-keyed colors, their catchy, simplified designs and their satiny, brush-free surfaces, the paintings communicate the excitement of a new hedonistic optimism that did so much to make the 60's what it was. Hours and admission: See above (Johnson).

"LEGENDS OF OUR TIMES: NATIVE RANCHING AND RODEO LIFE ON THE PLAINS AND THE PLATEAU," National Museum of the American Indian, George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700 (through March 7). This lively account of man, woman and horse among the native people in Western reaches of the United States and Canada proves that a cowboy can be an Indian, and vice versa. The show depicts native peoples not as objects of exploitation by the white man but as ranchers, cowboys, entertainers and rodeo performers. It displays more than 700 objects -- saddles, bead and quill works, paintings, photographs, blankets, clothing, horse gear, hunting implements, roundup equipment, headdresses and other ceremonial garb -- from the 18th century to now. At least half of this huge show provides an engaging and comprehensive account of rodeo, but nonrodeo fans will probably have more fun with the bedazzlement of objects depicting the more traditional side of American Indian life. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m. Free (Glueck).

"MATERIAL DIFFERENCES: ART AND IDENTITY IN AFRICA," Museum for African Art, 36-01 43rd Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-7700 (through Oct. 6). Part Art Methods 101, part Advanced Connoisseurship, this handsome, thoughtful show examines the potent connection between matter and meaning in diverse African cultures and shows them to be organically connected. The material is spiritual in these cultures, and the show's 130 mostly ceremonial objects, arranged strictly according to materials and techniques, reflect the power of that belief. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

"NOGUCHI -- THE BOLLINGEN JOURNEY: PHOTOGRAPHS AND DRAWINGS, 1949-1956," Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum (temporary space), 36-01 43rd Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 204-7088 (through Oct. 13). More than 100 photographs and drawings recreate Noguchi's travels from 1949 to 1956, on a grant from the Bollingen Foundation. The project was for an ambitious book (never completed) on the spaces and structures -- religious, monumental, classical and communal -- of familiar as well as less-documented societies. Besides providing an elegant travelogue, the photographs give some idea of the many sources that Noguchi drew on for his work. Hours: Mondays, Thursdays and Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50 for students and 65+ (Glueck)

"THE PERFECT GAME: AMERICA LOOKS AT BASEBALL," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through Feb. 1). This sweet and nearly pitch-perfect show is not a documentary of the sport. It is an elaborate illustration of a shared loved affair with a game, expressed, as love often is, through art. Joe DiMaggio and Cy Young do not tip their caps anywhere in it. But George Sosnak does. A retired minor league umpire, he intricately decorated baseballs with India ink, elaborately annotated, in his spare time. John Tracy, a Union soldier in a Confederate prison, carved baseball scenes onto a cane to pass time and save himself from going nuts. Ray Materson sewed pictures of his favorite Yankees while serving a 15-year sentence for armed robbery. And David Mellor, who is in charge of the grounds at Fenway Park in Boston, rolls the grass into fantastic patterns for the folks in the stands to enjoy. Call it folk art for the masses, which is not a bad definition for baseball, by the way. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

"PULP ART: VAMPS, VILLAINS AND VICTORS FROM THE ROBERT LESSER COLLECTION," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Oct. 19). This murky exhibition showcases the small, gaudy, largely unappreciated paintings commissioned for the covers of the pulp magazines that ruled the newsstands between the wars. While ultimately a bit repetitious, their overheated depictions of sharp-jawed heroes, compromised heroines and various human and nonhuman villains highlight talents like George Rozen and Paul R. Frank. They also give vent to the dark, violent, libidinous underbelly of the American psyche, to the same degree that Norman Rockwell's paintings bless its wholesome, repressed, preternaturally sunny side. The show is essential viewing for anyone interested in popular culture past or present. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

"REMEMBERING THE FORGOTTEN ONES: MILTON ROGOVIN," New-York Historical Society, 2 West 77th Street, (212) 873-3400 (through Oct. 12). Mr. Rogovin, who is 93, has been photographing the residents of Buffalo's Lower West Side, a largely black, Latino and immigrant neighborhood, since the 1950's. Wonderful images have emerged: a benignly smiling elderly man pushing a baby in a carriage; alert kids dressed in cool street styles; a teenage mother standing with her infant in front of a wall bearing the chalk-written words "I love you God." At regular intervals, Mr. Rogovin has rephotographed some of his original subjects, and he displays the updates in four-picture sequences that he calls quartets. In them, couples marry and have families; change homes, partners and eras; gain weight, gain perspective, disappear. Sad, traumatic or sweet, these visual versions of oral history are the highlight of the show. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $3 for students and 65+ (Cotter).

"VIETNAM: JOURNEYS OF BODY, MIND AND SPIRIT," American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, (212) 769-5100 (through Jan. 4). For many Americans who came of age before or during the 1960's, Vietnam was the name of a place you didn't want to go to. Even today the prevailing impression of this part of Southeast Asia seems to be a composite of remembered news clips and scenes from "Apocalypse Now." More than a quarter-century after the war, the image is due for revision, and that is the basic idea behind this show, a lavishly illustrated anthropological field trip through Vietnam today. Using objects, videos and photographs, it examines popular traditions associated with marriage, death and religion, often to vivid effect, in a lively, serpentine installation. And even with many important political and social questions left unasked and unanswered, there is a wealth of information here. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Admission: $12; $9, students and 60+ (Cotter).

Galleries: Uptown

"BAUHAUS/NEW BAUHAUS," Ubu Gallery, 416 East 59th Street, (212) 753-4444 (Thursday through Oct. 4; by appointment through Wednesday). A selection of 79 photographic works by 30 artists who taught or studied at the Bauhaus in Germany (1919 to 1933) and the New Bauhaus in Chicago (founded in 1937), this richly informative show evokes a euphoric excitement about all the new things that could be done with photography. From Laszlo Moholy-Nagy's experiments with the photogram to Aaron Siskind's classically austere picture of industrial silos, it takes us back to one of the more exciting futures of this world-altering medium (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

* HELMUT FEDERLE, "Works on Paper," Peter Blum, 99 Wooster Street, (212) 343-0441 (through Sept. 13). From the mid-1970's to the late 1990's, the Swiss-born painter Helmut Federle extended his imagery from geometricized but lush mountain peaks to the freest of signs and markings. The 200 drawings on view here trace his progress. Although the work remains in a highly reductive geometricized mode, it is sometimes quirkily dreamy and sensuous, with more than a touch of whimsy. In these 200 drawings, which gain strength from being grouped together, Mr. Federle's many and varied passes at the paper range from the precise scientific textbook rendering "Constellation" (1983) to more relaxed and painterly grids like "Untitled" (1992), in which eroded bright blue bands are dragged across a white ground. He is a great performer; even his most fragmentary wisps hold the eye (Glueck).

Galleries: Chelsea

* "IN FULL VIEW," Andrea Rosen, 525 West 24th Street, (212) 627-6000 (through Sept. 13). A show that invites visitors on a pluralistic treasure hunt for 18 artworks that tease one's limits of visual perception. Look for Christopher Chiappa's Ford Taurus gas-tank door built into the wall; Maurizio Cattelan's roosting stuffed pigeons; Vincent Shine's tiny, gold Brancusian wasp; Jim Hodges's jewelry-chain spider web; and Charles Ray's classic "Rotating Disc" (Johnson).

ANDREI MOLODKIN, Kashya Hildebrand, 531-539 West 25th Street, (212) 366-5757 (through Sept. 13). This skillful Russian draftsman has a heavy-handed way with popular and political symbols. He draws giant parodies of "I Love N.Y." or "I Love Sex" bumper stickers, replacing the valentine heart with anatomically accurate skulls. Also on view is a double portrait of Lenin and Stalin. What's most interesting is not the imagery but how these enormous drawings are made: entirely with a blue ballpoint pen (Johnson).

"THIS IS LAGOS: YABIS NIGHT, MUSIC AND FELA," Skoto, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 352-8058 (through Sept. 20). If you crave a second fix of the charismatic Nigerian musician Fela Anikulapo-Kuti after seeing "Black President" at the New Museum, Skoto is the place to go. Much of this gallery's fine summer show is devoted to vivid pictures of Fela by the Nigerian photographer Femi Bankole Osunla, who was part of Fela's inner circle from the early 1970's to the musician's death from AIDS in 1997. This work is complemented by a handsome series of color images of Africa by the American photographer Howard T. Cash, two heads sculptured by Osaretin Ighile and an altarlike installation by the young American artist Sol Sax (Cotter).

* "TODAY'S MAN," John Connelly Presents, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 337-9563 (through Sept. 13). This dandy group show includes some 50 small pieces by as many artists, from senior figures like Alex Katz and A. A. Bronson, to a raft of youthful prodigies. The theme, men making art about men, naturally raises expectations of a "gay" show, which "Today's Man" both is and is not. Explicit homoeroticism is all but absent. Most of the artists who are gay are too young to have experienced AIDS and the identity politics of the 1990's first hand, and have scant interest in we're-here-we're-queer declarations. A result is an unassuming, shorthand new-talent survey of some of the masculinities currently operating between the presumed opposites of gay and straight (Cotter).

"VACATION," Spike, 547 West 20th Street, (212) 627-4100 (through Sept. 20). Innocence and experience collide in the works of Norm Magnusson, who outlines juvenile, coloring-book-style images over gridded fields of pages from pointedly selected books. Jesus offering guidance to a little boy is drawn over pages from Bulfinch's "Mythology," for example, and paper-doll clothes over "Lolita." Also on view: Buck Henri's engaging photographs of exotic dancers, old cars, mannequins, small-town parades and other subjects; Alan Schmer's illustrative paintings of farm animals; and Melissa Stern's pedestal-size figurative sculptures that blend Surrealism and primitivism (Johnson).

Other Galleries

"MIRACLE IN THE SCRAP HEAP: THE SCULPTURE OF RICHARD STANKIEWICZ," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, (212) 554-4818 (through Sept. 25). Welded together from scrap metal, Mr. Stankiewicz's slyly figurative semi-abstract sculptures from the mid-1950's were early warning signs that Abstract Expressionism was losing traction, and more worldly subjects, materials and ideas were bubbling up all around. His ingeniously composed works lived up to titles like "Kabuki Dancer," "Urchin," "Marionette," "Middle-Aged Couple" and "Family Portrait" with the spine-tingling accuracy of unusually art-savvy cartoons. They expanded upon Cubism, rebuked the prevailing lugubriousness of postwar sculpture and predicted many aspects of Pop and Minimalism. But they were too respectful of tradition to withstand the double-barreled onslaught of those movements. Organized by the Addision Gallery of American Art at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., this thoughtful show is the first Stankiewicz retrospective in New York. His penchant for compositional complexity, cartoonish figuration and the two-timing of the abstract and the representational seem pertinent and full of possibility (Smith).

Last Chance

"BOYS OF SUMMER," ClampArt, 531 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (646) 230-0020 (through tomorrow). If you like to look at men, stop in. Standing out among the crowd of pictures by more than two dozen photographers are "Bruce in His Car," a 1981 portrait of a skinny bohemian in his big red convertible by Nan Goldin; a beefy, shirtless young football player celebrating with his team, by Brian Finke; men in leather, by Barbara Nitke; and, by Malerie Marder, a large color image of a mixed-sex group of naked people relaxing in a California bathhouse (Johnson).

* "HENDRICK GOLTZIUS, DUTCH MASTER (1558-1617): DRAWINGS, PRINTS AND PAINTINGS," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). Goltzius (1558-1617) was one of the hottest of hotshot Dutch artists. He was particularly celebrated for his engravings, many of them mythological tableaus of pumped-up gods and pinup goddesses, rendered in the Mannerist way with flabbergasting elan. But he was also one of the great draftsmen of his age -- his landscape drawings prefigure Rembrandt and Ruisdael -- and became a virtuosic painter whose primary subject was bare human flesh: its texture, its color, its chemistry. To some eyes he remains strictly a period artist; to others he connects to the present in interesting ways. This Met show offers the raw materials for both reactions. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "LANDSCAPE OF MEMORY: THE ART OF MU XIN," Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400 (through Sunday). The artist and writer Mu Xin, born into a wealthy aristocratic family in China, received a classical scholar's education and early exposure to Western culture. Targeted as a dissident during the Cultural Revolution, he was held in solitary confinement for 18 months, and he secretly wrote a series of first-person meditations now called "Prison Notes," which he carried out of jail sewn in his clothes. Under house arrest several years later, he executed a remarkable series of small landscape paintings in which traditional Chinese themes meet Leonardo da Vinci. The paintings and some of "Prison Notes" are brought together in this lean, penumbral exhibition, organized by the Yale University Art Gallery and the David and Alfred Smart Museum of Art at the University of Chicago. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

"SPLIT," Sandra Gering, 534 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (646) 336-7183 (through tomorrow). The best thing in this six-person show is Xavier Veilhan's bigger-than-life skeleton woven in wicker; it slouches casually in a corner of the gallery, a marvel of exotic faux-folk art. Note, too, a dense mix of cartoon characters and abstract patterning painted collaboratively in gouache by Christian Schumann and Gary Panter (Johnson).

"WILLEM VAN TETRODE: BRONZE SCULPTURES OF THE RENAISSANCE," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Sunday). This exhibition introduces a neglected Dutch artist who flourished amid the cultural ferment of 16th-century Italy, when the rediscoveries of monumental Classical marbles helped fuel a passion for mythological themes, the rise of private collecting and a new sense of physical and emotional drama in sculpture. Prodigiously talented, he navigated his own path between Classicism and Mannerism with beautifully detailed bronzes, most notably a splendidly muscled and bearded Hercules. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $12; $5 for students; $8 for 62+ (Smith).

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Mask" (1958), by Ellsworth Kelly, at the Whitney Museum. (Photo by David P. Robinson/Ellsworth Kelly); Men making art about men: A partial view of the 50-artist exhibition "Today's Man" at the John Connelly Presents gallery in Chelsea. (Photo by John Connelly Presents) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (97%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); RELIGION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); COMPANY STRATEGY (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); ASSASSINATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



97 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
If the Actual Amazon Is Far Away, Invent One Nearby

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
You probably won't need 98 minutes to get the point of "The Origin of the Night: Amazon Cosmos," a film by the German Conceptualist Lothar Baumgarten. A beautiful, elegiac but largely unsuspenseful meditation on the Brazilian rain forest and the creation stories of the Tupi Indians, this rarely seen movie was made between 1973 and 1977. It is being shown in New York for the first time, in continuous screenings at the Whitney Museum of American Art.
 The film is an evocative and affecting work, even if you're not familiar with its arcane narrative about an ancestral fall from grace that cast the world, until then sunny around the clock, into darkness for half of each day. (Mr. Baumgarten took the story from Claude Levi-Strauss's book "From Honey to Ashes.") 
 Centering exclusively on a damp swamp setting, the film intimates a geographical location with an opening massing of the names of Amazon Indian tribes and indigenous plants and animals. It proceeds to examine the terrain, mostly at close range, as time cycles from darkness to light and back to darkness -- coming noisily to life and then closing down for the night. 
But long before the end of "The Origin of the Night," you'll probably figure out that it was shot not in the Amazon at all, but somewhere in the Northern Hemisphere. At that point you will either walk out or await official confirmation in the closing credits: these specify the Rhein-Walder, forests along the Rhine near the artist's home in Dusseldorf, Germany. (He also has a home in New York.) 
This film offers an important piece of the expanding puzzle of 70's art, but it also tries your patience. After all, it harks back to a time when artists were looking at the natural world with a new directness and taking their time about it. Testing your patience was part of it; the only good time was real time, or something close. 
Mr. Baumgarten, who is nearly 60, is a former student of Joseph Beuys and represented Germany at the 1984 Venice Biennale. He has been known since the late 1970's for scattering the names of vanished or vanishing North and South American Indian tribes across the walls, and occasionally the floors, of museums and galleries. 
His primary subject is the passage of time and the changes it brings: in nature, human knowledge, economics and power. The most basic form of power is the power to name, to separate out and identify parts of the world; or, in the case of colonialism, to claim them by renaming. Thus Mr. Baumgarten selects words that evoke the peoples, places and cultures that have been adversely affected by Western civilization and the march of what is sometimes called progress. His intent is simultaneously to raise social and political consciousness and expand our sense of the world's richness through a spatial and visual experience of language. 
This experience is often moving as well as elegant, even dazzling. It was especially prominent in what is possibly his largest, most widely reproduced work, "America: Invention," created in 1993 for the Guggenheim Museum in New York. Covering the museum's entire interior with large letters spelling out tribal names and turning its spiral rotunda into a dynamic vortex of language, this installation was part memorial, part anthropological index, part advertising and part art. 
There is a selfless, saintly aspect to much of Mr. Baumgarten's work that makes you long for an outburst of ego and temperament. But his generation was in many ways more transfixed by reality and sheer information than by art.
This film reminds us that Mr. Baumgarten is a kindred spirit to a group of artists who, basically, took the painting out of landscape painting, transferring its grandeur to various combinations of language, film, sculpture, photography and the great outdoors itself. The generation included Richard Long and Hamish Fulton, who combined words and photographs, as Mr. Baumgarten also has upon occasion, and Robert Smithson, who was mesmerized by entropy. It also included Nancy Graves, whose lifesize sculptures of camels might almost -- but not quite -- fit into a natural history museum diorama and whose films of flocks of birds sweeping back and forth against the sky have an accumulating power and monotony that relates to Mr. Baumgarten's film. 
In "The Origin of the Night," the camera flits deftly among images of dense undergrowth, tree trunks and leafy tops. Sometimes you sense a structuralist impulse to constantly reiterate the film's surface with close-ups of natural ones. The camera also zooms in on frogs' eyes and a turtle's shell and skin almost to the point of abstractness. The clouds range from pink to stormy and at one point deliver a violent thunderstorm.
No humans are visible, although occasionally you see the tip or side of the artist's red-and-blue inflated canoe; he's a solitary explorer in the wilderness. Mainly there is water, sometimes black and brackish, sometimes sparkling, whether with the light of the moon, the pinkness of dawn or the golden glow of sunset. The water can be dotted with powwowing frogs or squadrons of water spiders and is rife with fish, fallen trees, vines and floating leaves. Some of the most beautiful images silhouette birds on bare branches against the late afternoon sky.
The film's rhythmic scannings are accompanied by the clamor of jungle life -- unseen monkeys, parrots, growling beasts, woodpeckers. But as time passes, you begin to notice the absence of genuinely tropical trees and undergrowth; the drab coloration of the few visible birds and reptiles; the bits of trash underfoot; and the frequency of low-flying jumbo jets overhead. 
Some of the words that periodically appear on the screen -- mimicry, imitation -- may start to raise your suspicions about the assumptions encouraged by those clusters of names that appeared at the film's beginning. As the the fictive power of the camera becomes increasingly evident, we also experience firsthand the primacy of language, one of Mr. Baumgarten's central themes, and its ability to trick the eye. The distance between the "civilized" and "natural" collapses; notions of the exotic and of otherness emerge as necessary fantasies of the mind, especially the Western mind. You may even begin to admire the artist's cleverness and wonder at your own gullibility.
In the end, it is Mr. Baumgarten's fiction and sense of abstract beauty, not his grasp of reality or his reverence for the Tupi, that is most interesting in "The Origin of the Night." And, thankfully, the hint of postmodern irony erodes the prevailing piety of his work. He is a precursor of the set-up photography that emerged in New York in the early 1980's, especially as developed by artists like James Casebere and James Welling. Another good reason for the Whitney to be showing this film. 

Lothar Baumgarten's "Origin of the Night: Amazon Cosmos" is on view at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600, through Nov. 30.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two images from Lothar Baumgarten's film "The Origin of the Night: Amazon Cosmos" (1973-78), at the Whitney Museum of American Art through November. Shooting near his home in Germany, the artist evoked the Amazon rain forest. (Photographs from the Marian Goodman Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%) ART; REVIEWS; MOTION PICTURES 

ORGANIZATION: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; BAUMGARTEN, LOTHAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

TITLE: ORIGIN OF THE NIGHT, THE: AMAZON COSMOS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



98 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Weekender Bellport, N.Y.

BYLINE:  By BETHANY LYTTLE 

 BODY:
INITIALLY, the understated beauty of the place -- the classic white houses with green trim, the shady streets lined with prim picket fences, the quaint main street and the water views -- attracts weekenders to Bellport. But in the end, this Long Island town's proximity to Manhattan and its beach on Fire Island persuade daydreaming city dwellers to become loyal part-time residents.
 Bellport, 60 miles from Manhattan, offers all the beach-and-fresh-air allure of a Long Island getaway without the scene and the traffic associated with the Hamptons. It has an active film society, a first-rate playhouse and numerous programs for children and teenagers. It also has the occasional drawback that comes with popularity: There is an eight year waiting list for a boat slip at the local yacht club. 
 "The village is quiet, and privacy is respected, but most people who come here do so because they value beauty and a sense of a community," said Thomas O'Brien, president of Aero Studios Ltd., a Manhattan design company, who first visited Bellport in 1990 and now owns a house there. 
Jane Wilton, a lawyer from Manhattan who spends weekends in Bellport with her husband, Ron Ridon, and their three children, said: "It's the kind of place where you can drop in on a friend. There's a lot of back and forth between each other's houses. It's like the suburban life I had when I was growing up. The kids can just hop on their bikes and go."
The influx of weekenders begins on Friday night. At the Bellport restaurant (159 South Country Road), tables begin to fill up early in the evening. "You should see them," said Patricia Trainor, who owns the restaurant with her husband and its chef, Taylor Alonso. "They fall in with these exhausted faces, but by the time they're ready to leave, the place is abuzz with lively chatter."
Second home to prominent members of the fashion and design industries, as well as investment bankers and lawyers, journalists and artists, the village has a history of playing host to vacationing Manhattanites. From the mid-1800's until the late 1930's, it was an active summer resort with grand hotels and boarding houses. Though most of these structures were torn down by the 1940's, Bellport retained a consistent, if smaller, summer resident population. The 1980's saw a revived interest in the village, and many of the handsome houses that are now prized by residents were restored at that time.

The Scene
Driving along Station Road on the way to Bellport, you pass through North Bellport, a relatively depressed town characterized by small, run-down homes and the occasional corner market. Once you cross the railroad tracks, however, things change. A left turn onto South Country Road, which divides the village of Bellport in half (geographically and economically), leads to a blocklong shopping area.
A turn onto Bellport Lane reveals a stately drive flanked by large trees and grand houses, many built by sea captains who lived and worked here during the town's whaling days. The lane leads to Bellport Bay, where it loops around the Bellport Bay Yacht Club across from Fire Island. In summer, outdoor film screenings and music events are held beside the water.
Proud of its history and intent on preserving it, the Village of Bellport has an officially designated, and growing, historic district, which includes Bellport Lane. The village also has an architectural review board, which must be approached before structural changes can be made to buildings in the area.
Created in 1969, the Post-Morrow Foundation procures undeveloped land as well as properties and buildings of regional significance. Acres of surrounding wetlands, creeks and other riverine areas have been protected by the foundation.
"There's a strong bias toward keeping things as they were," said Paul Allan, an owner and the producer of the Gateway Playhouse (215 South Country Road), who with his sister, Robin Allan, is overseeing the reconstruction and renovation of a large colonial-style house on the property.

Pros
Ho-Hum Beach (called Bellport Beach by most residents) is the jewel of the village. Situated 2.2 miles away on Fire Island, it can be reached by the village-owned 42-passenger Whalehead Point ferry or by private boat.
A season-long family ferry pass is $348. The beach, which is open to residents, is prized for its privacy. Bordered by national seashore, it is rarely crowded, with 60 visitors considered unusual. Following local custom, residents and weekenders line up their sandals and sneakers at the head of the stairs that lead down to the beach.
The town sponsors a number of programs that are ideal for families. They include sailing, golf and tennis lessons for children. A biweekly film series is offered by the Bellport Film Society.
Bellport has an annual outdoor art fair and a summer concert series at the village band shell. In winter, the bay is transformed into a skating rink for sailboat-size iceboats, or "scooters." The vessels, which are wind-propelled, have been gliding across Bellport Bay since 1874.
The 500-seat Gateway Playhouse is in its 53rd season, currently featuring "The King and I." Its proximity to New York City allows the theater to attract a high caliber of talent.
Bellport has a wide range of shops, among them the old-style Variety Mart, the Donna Waters boutique and the whimsical Pippers America. Wallen's IGA and Bellport Paint & Wallpaper are two of the many stores that appear much as they did 60 years ago.
In addition to the Bellport, restaurants include the dining room at the Bellport Country Club. Painters, a former catering hall that has been updated with downtown decor, offers continental food and the kind of family-friendly atmosphere you might find in TriBeCa.
Bellport's commitment to conserving land, protecting architecture and limiting growth has much to do with what makes it attractive to homeowners.
Travel to Bellport is relatively swift because the exit to Bellport is off the Sunrise Highway before the bottleneck farther east. The Long Island Railroad stops in Bellport.

Cons
Even in economic downturns, Bellport property values have held steady or risen, real estate agents say. As a result, "a lot of people who would be willing to contribute to this community can't afford to live here," said Joseph Varsalona, who lives in East Patchogue, a neighboring village that is considered part of Bellport but is slightly less expensive.
Bellport's desire to preserve its village character is seen by some as too controlling. Business owners in the village must balance their commitment to small-town values with a need for profit, and for homeowners who wish to make changes to their homes or expand their properties, the bureaucracy can be frustrating. Weekenders who want a property that doesn't require a lot of attention may find Bellport too restrictive.
To some, the village is in a state of transition. "Corporate America is beginning to have an impact," said Thomas Schultz, owner of Kitchen and Coffee, a coffee shop in town. CVS, the drugstore chain, has moved in, and residents, both part-time and full-time, "will have to make a decision about the direction the town is going to take," Mr. Schultz said.
Visitors may find the quality and range of the produce at the local supermarkets limited. Unlike the Hamptons, the village lacks farm stands, produce markets or speciality food shops.

The Real Estate Market
Finding a property in Bellport requires persistence. "There are only three or four building sites left in the area, most listed at about $495,000," said Mark Petheram, a broker and owner of Old Purchase Properties (126 South County Road, 631-286-2424; www.oldpurchase.com).
Generally speaking, the closer to the water, the more expensive the houses. It is not atypical for older houses, like the neo-Classicals and Victorians on Bellport Lane, to be priced at more than $2 million.
This week, listings at Old Purchase Properties included an early 1900's cedar-shingle Cape Cod with a 50-foot in-ground pool, four bedrooms and gardens for $1,075,000. A four-bedroom early 1900's colonial-style house with a wraparound porch is listed for $740,000. Less expensive properties are farther from the water, like a 1975 three-bedroom ranch-style house on a half-acre lot for $369,000.
To the south, the average house price is about $750,000. To the north, buyers can expect to pay $350,000 for a midcentury ranch or Cape Cod that needs updating. At Eileen Green Realty (153 South Country Road, 631-286-3366; www.eileengreenrealty.com), listings include a four-bedroom 1920's Dutch Colonial by the bay, with a guest cottage and screened porch on a three-quarter-acre lot for $899,000, and a well-maintained 1950's Cape Cod with four bedrooms for $395,000.
According to Mr. Petheram, property values have risen about 25 percent each year for the last five years. Ms. Green quoted a similar statistic.
Though limited, housing stock in Bellport is in good condition, something brokers and residents attribute to the 20-year-old trend in period restoration.

LAY OF THE LAND
Quieter and Closer Than the Hamptons

POPULATION: 2,800; about 25 percent are weekend homeowners.

SIZE: 1.4 square miles.

NUMBER OF HOUSES: 1,120.

NEIGHBORS: Charlie Rose, Isabella Rossellini, the artist Malcolm Morley and the former governor of Massachusetts William Weld.

MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: $350,000 north of South Country Road; $750,000 south of South Country Road.

RECENT SALES: They include an 1880 colonial-style house with six bedrooms and an in-ground pool for $814,000; a 1970's colonial with four bedrooms and an in-ground pool for $680,000; a three-bedroom 1968 ranch-style house for $225,000.

DISTANCE FROM NEW YORK: About 60 miles.

TRAVEL TIME: In light traffic or by train, about 90 minutes.

GETTING THERE: From Manhattan, take the Long Island Expressway to Exit 64. Take Route 112 south, then go east on Route 27 (Sunrise Highway). Take Exit 56, turn right on Station Road and then left on South Country Road. The Long Island Railway stops in Bellport, as well as in Patchogue. Lorraine's Bellport Taxi (631-286-0239) will pick you up.

WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING: The Great South Bay Inn (160 South Country Road, 631-286-8588), a bed-and-breakfast in a restored late-19th-century house at the village center, has six rooms, four with private baths; $115 to $135 a night.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BAREFOOTING -- Beachgoers shed shoes at Mothers' Beach in Bellport, a sandy stretch that overlooks the Great South Bay and is a welcoming spot for children.; PEACEFUL -- Old houses and shady streets are part of the allure of Bellport, on Long Island about 60 miles from Manhattan. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) Map of Long Island highlighting Bellport.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (86%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); RESORTS (72%); CITIES (72%); SUBURBS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: AERO STUDIOS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: THOMAS M O'BRIEN (51%) LYTTLE, BETHANY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) BELLPORT (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



99 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Paris Journal; 
The End of Chocolate (as a Chocolatier Knows It)

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
First, Christian Constant created a towering sculpture in solid chocolate, dozens of stylized chocolate bars soaring in a turbulent column skyward, out of an immense cracked chocolate egg. The Renaissance of Chocolate, he called it.
 Next, he draped the doorposts of his store, along Rue d'Assas in Paris, in black as a sign of mourning. 
 The symbols reflected the mix of emotions these days among French lovers of chocolate who know their criollo from their gianduja, and relish the difference. The symbolism became ever more complex after the monument to rebirth, softened by Paris's withering heat, slowly leaned, like some Hershey's Tower of Pisa. 
In August, French connoisseurs of chocolate definitively lost a battle against the bureaucrats of the European Union. Up to 5 percent of the cocoa butter in chocolate may be replaced by other vegetable fats -- Mr. Constant refers to them as "bad margarine" -- and still be called chocolate.
"Chocolate is no longer chocolate," said Mr. Constant, perched in the tiny coffee bar next to his store.
The struggle began in the 1970's, after Britain sought entry into the European Union and set as a condition the acceptance by the rest of Europe of a law that would permit the addition of vegetable fat, a customary practice in British chocolate. 
For the French, it was an assault on the world's finest cocoa-based products, which for them meant French chocolate.
Indeed, the French love of chocolate is such that it has even become an affair of state. This week, the State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, referred disparagingly to four European countries, including France, that met earlier this year for what he described as a little bitty summit to discuss defense policies more independent of the United States. Mr. Boucher dismissed them as "the chocolate makers."
In France, that is a proud thing to be. Chocolatiers like Mr. Constant picketed European institutions in Brussels and Strasbourg. They argued from taste; they argued from global economics. If less chocolate were used, the economies of cocoa-producing countries like Ivory Coast would be ruined. Their efforts, helas, were ultimately undermined by a fifth column: France's own industrial chocolate makers. 
Pure chocolate, Mr. Constant explained, consists essentially of cocoa, sugar and cocoa butter, which is extracted from cocoa beans and is very expensive. "Vegetable fats are 10 time cheaper," he said. The big chocolate industrialists, he complained, like Nestle, Kraft Foods, the maker of Toblerone, and Suchard, "employ only one argument: price. You have to make it less expensive."
For their part, the industrialists are treading cautiously. A spokesman for Kraft Foods in France acknowledged it was a bit like genetically modified crops, which the French also detest. "Even if they're authorized," he told the daily Le Monde, "the public reaction is such that for the moment no one is going to use them."
According to a survey this summer by the Sofres polling group, fully 30 percent of the French acknowledge a "faithful and passionate relationship with chocolate."
One of the faithful, and passionate, is Jean Colaneri, the secretary general of the Club des Croqueurs de Chocolat -- roughly, the Club of Chocolate Munchers -- an exclusive band of French chocolate connoisseurs who meet four times a year, taste new creations from famous chocolatiers, and vote approval or disapproval with a show of hands.
"In Europe, in any case, habits of consumption are very different," Mr. Colaneri said. "In Scandinavia, Denmark, England, it's a product of daily consumption. In others, France above all, there's a sort of tradition among the producers, it is part of a grand crafts tradition. There are certain specificities, pleasure, conviviality. Who does not like chocolate?"
Before retiring, Mr. Colaneri, 77, headed the association of chocolate producers, so he knows both sides of the fence. The Croqueurs, who publish a Zagat-like guide to French chocolatiers (they rank Mr. Constant with three of five possible chocolate bars), opposed the new directive, though he offered a compromise: distinguishing chocolate from chocolate products, thus maintaining chocolate's purity while allowing vegetable fats in such chocolate products as the chips in tollhouse cookies.
He wonders aloud whether unscrupulous manufacturers might not stop at 5 percent, but add even more vegetable fats. After all, testing methods for fat content are highly unreliable. "It's like the petroleum industry," he said. "It's complex chemistry."
What he fears most, he suggested, are cheap imports, say, from eastern European nations about to enter the European Union.
Mr. Constant's faithful clients, of course, scoff at the idea of vegetable fats. "I don't agree at all," said Jean-Marc Godard, 50, cradling a large chocolate cake he had just bought in the shadow of Mr. Constant's leaning monument. "Everyone would pay a little more to get real chocolate."
For Mr. Constant, it is the start of a slope as slippery perhaps as cocoa butter. "Now we have evoked the problem of creating a precedent," he said, sadly. "If chocolate, why not 5 percent vegetable fat in butter? Or wine? You could add water, or colorant, and still call it wine."
"The poor European chocolate law," he said. "It's sad, because we're assuring a move toward a more synthetic world, in all domains."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The European Union has ruled that chocolate can contain some vegetable fats, and Christian Constant, right, just can't swallow that. Chocolate on a conveyer belt, above, at his Paris store. (Photographs by Ed Alcock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OILS & FATS (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); COCOA FARMING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); AGRICULTURE (68%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (68%); FOOD MFG (67%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (50%) CHOCOLATE; OILS AND FATS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (51%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (51%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (51%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; CONSTANT, CHRISTIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (95%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) PARIS (FRANCE); EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



100 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Worker Productivity Grows at a Fast Clip 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Companies are supplying an expanding economy with more cars, computers, machinery and services while cutting jobs and getting more out of remaining workers, reports released yesterday showed.
 Productivity, a measure of how much work an employee performs, grew at a 6.8 percent annual rate in the April-June period, triple the first-quarter pace, the Labor Department said. 
Initial jobless claims rose last week to 413,000, the highest in more than a month, the department also reported. 
 Factory orders rose 1.6 percent in July, the third consecutive increase, the Commerce Department said. Services, which account for more than 80 percent of the economy, grew in August for a fifth consecutive month, a private report said. 
"The silver lining is that as companies become more profitable from these efficiencies, they'll be more willing to invest, and that will help to create jobs," said Jade Zelnik, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital in Connecticut.
The second-quarter rise in productivity came after a 2.1 percent rate of increase in first three months and was the fastest since 9.3 percent in the first quarter of 2002.
First-time claims for state unemployment benefits rose 15,000 last week, to 413,000. The four-week moving average, a less volatile indicator, rose to 401,500. Some economists consider 400,000 the dividing line between job market expansion and contraction.
The 1.6 percent increase in factory orders for July to $329.4 billion came after a revised 1.9 percent gain in June, the Commerce Department said. Economists had expected factory orders to rise 0.8 percent. Excluding transportation equipment, orders rose 2.1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



101 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Crops in Plains Wither In Scorching Drought 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: EVEREST, Kan. 

 BODY:
Kevin Compton, a 48-year-old grain farmer, recently walked into his corn field to inspect the damage from a summer-long drought. He tore open an ear of corn and grimaced.
 "Look at this little bitty ear," he said, revealing a stunted, partly rotted corn cob. "This won't amount to nothing. Everything's gone." 
 Mr. Compton then hopped in his Ford Explorer and drove a mile east to inspect some soybean acreage. It was even worse.
"You see these spots?" he said, fingering a withering, pale-green soybean pod. "These are dying. When you look at these pods, you see about 8 or 10. Normally, you'd have 30 or 40."
Farmers all over the state are making similar assessments because of what state officials say is one of the worst droughts in the Plains states in decades. This community in northeastern Kansas is one of the areas hit hardest.
For the second straight year, Kansas and parts of Missouri and Nebraska have suffered through an extremely dry summer that has brought back memories of the 1930's Dust Bowl. A shortage of rainfall and a series of 100-degree days have destroyed crops on millions of acres and dried up streams, creeks and rivers, state officials said.
All over Kansas there have been scenes of loss and despair. Farmers have been harvesting corn that matured too early and turning it into animal feed. Ranchers have been hauling water to cattle grazing on shriveled pastures. Even grain sorghum, which is considered more drought-resistant than other crops, is dying in the fields. 
Recent downpours that flooded the eastern part of the state came too late to save many crops, state and agriculture officials said.
"The rains were beneficial, but they didn't save anything," said Mary Knapp, the Kansas state climatologist. "We need continuing rains to end this."
Some farmers have had to take drastic steps. "Farmers are cutting their corn for silage because it's not good enough to grow," said Lisa Taylor, a spokeswoman for the Kansas Department of Agriculture. 
Farmers had hoped this year would be better than last, when they lost more than $1 billion worth of crops to drought. The losses could be as high this year. Congress offered about $200 million in drought aid in 2002. This year, state officials are planning to ask the federal government for more relief.
Indeed, the United States Agriculture Department's weather crop report recently showed that about 55 percent of the state's corn crop and 61 percent of its soybean crop were "poor to very poor."
One of the few bright spots for Kansas farmers was last winter's wheat crop, which resulted in an unusually good harvest. Many farmers who expect huge losses from this summer's corn and soybean crops are hoping for another strong winter wheat crop, which is planted in October and harvested in June.
There is already a rush to buy seed for winter wheat, agricultural officials here say.
Kansas ranchers are also faring well by selling their cattle early to take advantage of a strong demand for beef. 
"Market prices are extremely good," said Todd Domer, a spokesman for the Kansas Livestock Association. "They're near all-time highs." 
The pessimistic report from the Department of Agriculture came at the end of August, when parts of Kansas were suffering through 11 consecutive days of 100 degree heat; on Day 12, the temperature was 99.
Parts of Kansas were so dry that restrictions on water use and rules against trash burning were put into effect to conserve water and prevent wildfires. Some reservoirs were 14 to 20 feet below normal levels.
Along Interstate 70, which stretches in this state from Kanorado, near the Colorado border, east to Kansas City, there are dying trees, acres of stunted soybeans and fields of deformed, earless corn. Corn fields that typically average 150 bushels an acre are now yielding just 30 or 40, local farmers say. The harvest began weeks ahead of schedule because farmers wanted to salvage part of the corn.
Here in the northeastern part of the state, the remaining corn is so brittle that a recent wind storm knocked over huge fields of it.
Soybean farmers are not much better off. Many soybean crops look as though they have stopped growing altogether. The dark greens have gone pale, like some tree tops.
"This is the second year in a row," said Kenlon Johannes, a spokesman for the Kansas Soybean Association. "It was bad in 2000; 2001 was O.K., 2002 was bad, and this year is bad. Three out of the last four years have been tough."
After going nearly two months with little or no precipitation, people in Kansas were joking that they would not know rain if it hit them smack on the head.
"Rain, what's rain?" said Stanley McCauley, a farmer driving a pickup truck on Main Street in nearby Highland, just before the downpours.
At Ernie's restaurant and pool hall in downtown Highland, everyone had something to say about the weather.
"People are driving trucks up and down the Nemaha River," said Artie Lucas, an insurance agent who was eating chicken strips and potatoes. "That's a tributary of the Missouri River."
Someone in the crowded hall called on Wilbur Winter, 87, to comment on the drought. Mr. Winter, a retired farmer, sought to put things in historical perspective.
"I remember '36," he said. "That was the Dust Bowl. We had 36 days over 100 degree temperatures. This isn't as bad as then, but this is bad."
In a state dominated by farmers and the business of farming, the drought has rippled through the economy.
"Everyone's tightening up,' said Emmett Cole, who operates a grain and fertilizer business in Highland. "They've quit spending money, and they're cutting back on their farm inputs."
While the rains came too late for the summer crop, they could help the winter wheat. 
In Everest, the first rains came late in the afternoon. People all over town ran outside, as though they had never seen rain.
Lanette McKee, the postmaster, went out and stood in front of the post office to marvel at the sight of raindrops pounding the sidewalks.
"I can't believe this is rain," Ms. McKee said. "Boy, is it coming."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the worst droughts in the Plains in decades has been been devastating for crops. Kevin Compton, standing amid his shriveled corn stalks, showed what the lack of rain had done to an ear of corn. (Photographs by Reed Hoffman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAIN FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); WEATHER (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); WHEAT FARMING (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%) AGRICULTURE; DROUGHT; WEATHER 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (96%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) KANSAS; MISSOURI; NEBRASKA

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



102 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Future Network Expanding Into Consumer Magazines
No publishing company flew higher than Future Network USA in the late 1990's, propelled by the booming new economy magazine Business 2.0, and few fell harder in the bust. But two years after a restructuring, a chastened Future is poised for another growth spurt in the United States, this time with a twist.
 Future is expected to announce today that it is buying Guitar World magazine and three other publications from Harris Publications for $16 million. The purchase of the Guitar World properties is an effort by the publisher to broaden its base into the less cyclical consumer-enthusiast field. Page C6. 

CD Industry Responds to Price Cut
Universal Music's decision to lower the prices of its CD's and its promotional subsidies to stores left the rest of the music industry scrambling to respond, and debating whether the effects would help or hurt struggling music stores. C2.

Drug Makers Influence Medicare Bill
A lobbying campaign is paying off for the pharmaceutical industry as Congress reconciles differences in two versions of a Medicare drug benefit. The main provision of the benefit -- the use of private health plans to deliver Medicare prescription drug benefits -- is tailor-made to the industry's specifications. A1.

Senator Seeks to Trim Tanker Lease
Senator John W. Warner, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, called on the Pentagon to scale back a $21 billion Air Force plan to lease 100 Boeing 767 tankers. C2.

U.S. May Bar a Tenet Hospital
The government has notified Tenet Healthcare that it will hold proceedings to bar its Redding Medical Center from federal health care programs because of accusations that potentially hundreds of patients received unnecessary heart tests and surgery at the hospital. C3.

Signs of Growth in Advertising
There are signs that ad spending is picking up. The chief economist at Standard & Poor's estimated spending will increase 4.8 percent this year. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C6.

PeopleSoft Raises Profit Estimate
PeopleSoft increased its estimate of 2004 profits before some costs to 90 to 95 cents a share. In June, PeopleSoft had predicted earnings of 84 to 92 cents. Net income will be 57 to 62 cents a share, the company said. Peoplesoft, which is trying to fend off a $7.25 billion hostile bid from Oracle, said Oracle's bid was no longer scaring away customers. C5.

S.&P. Reaches a 14-Month High
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose to a 14-month high for the third consecutive day, closing up 1.70 points, at 1,027.97. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 19.44 points, to 9,587.90, and the Nasdaq composite index increased 16.07 points, to 1,868.97. C6.

Productivity Growth Picks Up Speed
Productivity grew at a 6.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter, triple the first-quarter pace, the Labor Department said. C3.

Stock Firm Accuses Paper of Libel
The Financial Times, the newspaper owned by the conglomerate Pearson, is battling legal action by a brokerage firm that contends the newspaper hurt its reputation by making public accusations made by a former employee. World Business, Section W.

Some Ahold Investors Object to Pay
Shareholders of Royal Ahold voted to appoint Anders C. Moberg chief executive, but some of them objected to his pay. Mr. Moberg, who was appointed in May, will earn more than 6 million euros ($6.5 million) for his first two years on the job. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,587.90 up 19.44Nasdaq composite -- 1,868.97 up 16.0710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.51% down 0.08The euro -- $1.0923 up 0.0078The dollar -- 116.77 yen up 0.82 Graph: "TODAY" shows unemployment figures since February 2003.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: 6.2% Graph shows PeopleSoft share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (88%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MUSIC STORES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (67%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (66%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); AIR FORCES (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FUTURE PLC (92%); ORACLE CORP (64%); BOEING CO (54%)

TICKER: FUTR (LSE) (92%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (64%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (64%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (64%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (64%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (64%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: JOHN WARNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



103 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: 100,000 Could Lose Housing Subsidies, Advocates Warn 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
More than 100,000 low-income families could lose their rent subsidies next year under a spending bill passed today by a Senate committee and recently approved by the House, housing advocates said.
 The advocates cited a new study by the Congressional Budget Office. 
 If the nonpartisan budget office's forecast of housing costs next year proves accurate, it could be the first time in the 30-year history of the federal housing voucher program that Congress has failed to renew all existing vouchers. Under the program, known as Section 8, the vouchers pay the difference between the market rent of an apartment and 30 percent of a household's income. 
The program subsidizes more than two million families who generally earn less than $20,000 a year.
The House appropriated $11.7 billion for the vouchers this year. That would be enough to provide for 1.78 million vouchers under the House estimate of the average cost of a voucher, $6,575. But the budget office last week set a higher figure, $7,068, taking into account housing costs around the country. At that rate, the same sum of money would mean 114,000 fewer vouchers in the coming year. Because the law sets the voucher formula, any shortfall would result in fewer vouchers rather than small reductions in each voucher.
The Senate Appropriations Committee voted today to spend $150 million less on Section 8 than the House. But the panel included instructions to the administration to return to Congress with a supplementary spending request if the amount is inadequate to renew all vouchers.
Republican appropriators in the House say they provided a 7 percent increase in spending for the vouchers this year, considerably more than the 4 percent that the Bush administration recommended. Representative James T. Walsh, the New York Republican who is chairman of the subcommittee that controls spending on housing, said he believed that amount would be adequate to renew all vouchers, though he had not seen the new figures from the budget office.
An assistant housing secretary Michael Liu, whose office administers Section 8, said the administration believed that no one would lose a voucher based on the appropriation and questioned the forecast by the budget office.
"At the present time," Mr. Liu said, "we believe what has been allocated will be sufficient to take care of the number of vouchers we have. Frankly, we're not sure what C.B.O. based its estimates on."
Housing advocates said rapidly rising costs combined with high unemployment had pushed up the costs of subsidies beyond the increase approved by the House. The cost of a voucher increases when rents go up and income levels decrease.
"The appropriations committees are operating under extremely narrow confines of what they can do," said Sheila Crowley, president of the National Low Income Housing Coalition in Washington. "Now they're not even spending enough money to sustain the number of people who currently pay for housing through the voucher program. It's an unprecedented break in the commitment made when the program was founded in 1974."
To ensure that all vouchers were paid for, Congress has in previous years often appropriated more money than necessary. This year, Congress changed the financing to focus on the target of vouchers more closely. The new formula requires an extremely accurate prediction of costs to keep all vouchers renewed.
Barbara Sard, director of housing policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington that has studied Section 8 appropriations, said Congressional estimates for low-income housing had not kept pace with rents and other costs.
"The House relied on old data to predict what vouchers would cost," Ms. Sard said. "But this funding is for the future, and there are a lot of reasons why costs have dramatically increased recently." 
The Congressional Budget Office predicted that the cost of a voucher would increase by more than 5 percent, and that there would be less turnover of families who use the vouchers than the Congressional committees had assumed. In difficult economic times, families tend to rely more heavily on subsidies, and there are fewer instances of families earning too much to qualify for vouchers. Overall, the office said, the cost of renewing all vouchers will be $900 million more than the House allocated.
Some large urban housing authorities like the one in New York City have long waiting lists for Section 8 vouchers. Others have far more turnover. New York issues more than 110,000 vouchers a year, with nearly 150,000 families on the waiting list.
Mr. Walsh said the tax cuts were not linked to the housing bill.
"We provided a 7 percent increase, which is more than the president requested," he said. "I don't know how anyone can say that's related to the tax cuts." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (92%); APPROPRIATIONS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); APPROVALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%) HOUSING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RENTING AND LEASING; VOUCHERS 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: JAMES T WALSH (57%) FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



104 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: France and Free Trade 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As a third-generation steel worker who after 39 years of service has found himself unemployed, I read with some interest the account of France's protection of its "agri-culture" ("A French Roadblock to Free Trade," editorial, "Harvesting Poverty" series, Aug. 31). 
 I haven't figured out whether the French are deserving of admiration or ridicule. Personally, I like going to my grocery store and having the opportunity to buy virtually anything there is to eat or drink, including French wine. 
The French and their European neighbors have done everything in their power to tear down trade barriers in the United States in an effort to gain market share with their steel products at the expense of the domestic steel industry and our Midwest manufacturing "culture." It seems to me you can't have it both ways.
Free trade has become like Christianity and capitalism, embraced by many but practiced by relatively few. 

JOHN HYNES
Poland, Ohio, Aug. 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (88%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (80%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); MARKET SHARE (52%); RELIGION (50%) Agriculture; Protectionism (Trade); Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: John Hynes

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (67%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



105 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: France and Free Trade 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "A French Roadblock to Free Trade" (editorial, "Harvesting Poverty" series, Aug. 31) scapegoats France as the major roadblock to agricultural free trade, but does not mention a farm bill, passed last year, which increases American agricultural subsidies by 80 percent (almost $82 billion over the next decade) and is negatively viewed by Latin American and African nations as having the same "dumping" effect that France's policy produces. 
 A deeper analysis would reveal that the United States and the European Union are not the only nations to use agricultural subsidies, but that in fact many of the world's richest nations subsidize their farmers to the detriment of the developing world. Before agricultural free trade becomes a reality, the economic heavyweights must relinquish their subsidies and allow comparative advantage to take hold.

MAINA TILTON
New York, Sept. 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); AGRICULTURE (88%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; International Trade and World Market; Protectionism (Trade); Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: Maina Tilton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) France; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



106 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: AROUND THE LEAGUE; 
For 42 Years, Modell Has Watched, and Helped, the N.F.L. Grow

BYLINE:  By Thomas George

 BODY:
Long before pro football became America's favorite sport, it was Art Modell's passion. 
 Modell, the majority owner of the Baltimore Ravens, who turned 78 on July 23, will watch on television Sunday from his home when the Ravens open the season at divisional rival Pittsburgh. 
 He lives near the Ravens' complex in Owings Mills, Md., attends most practices in a golf cart and walks well with a little assistance. He recalls National Football League events of the past four decades and beyond with ease and retains his trademark humor. That despite quadruple bypass surgery in 1983 that left him in intensive care for 17 days. Last year he had a heart attack in April and a stroke in July. 
"As far as the hospital was concerned last year," quipped Modell at practice one day earlier this week, "I was on the monthly plan."
This will be Modell's 43rd and final season as a majority owner in the N.F.L. But that number alone, he said, is not magical.
What moves Modell are the friends he has gained and lost, the players, coaches and workers in his organization who over so many years became extended family and, finally, watching the N.F.L. grow into a powerful and model business entity.
He won a championship in Cleveland in 1964 but moved his team to Baltimore for the 1996 season. His team would lose in the championship game in 1965, '68 and '69 and in the American Football Conference title game in 1986, '87 and '89. It would win the Super Bowl capping the 2000 season. 
For 31 years Modell was the leader in the N.F.L.'s television negotiations and helped pave the way for the current $18 billion TV deal the league enjoys.
His father died when he was 15 and Modell dropped out of high school to work and help support his family. He later completed high school by attending night classes. Modell joined the Air Force and fought in World War II.
After the war, Modell built a successful career in advertising and television producing. In 1961, he bought the Browns for $4 million, combining his assets with money raised from bankers and other financiers. Some people said at the time that he had overpaid.
He sold the Ravens to Baltimore businessman Steve Bisciotti for $600 million in 2000 with the agreement that this season would be Modell's last as majority owner.
Giving up a nearly half-century love affair required at least that much time to digest.
"The principal reason I sold my team is to put my estate in order and provide for my children and grandchildren so they won't have to worry a day like I did growing up," Modell said. "During my father's time, the Depression was brutal and it wiped out his business, a chain of radio stores. During my time as owner, I've done many deals and made millions and lost millions, but this is the first time in my life I've been economically free. I'm out of the debt and out of that pressure. It's something every man works for and I worked 43 years for it, to build that for my family."
It was the reason, Modell said, that he had to move his team to Baltimore, an act that still riles people in Cleveland even though the Browns name was left behind and an expansion team has been back in business for four complete seasons.
"I understand there is anger at me that remains in Cleveland," Modell said. "I understand that when the Ravens won the Super Bowl, there was tremendous hostility toward me and my family." 
But Modell insists he had no choice.
"I could not go bankrupt," he said. "We built up so much debt in that old stadium. I had to do something to salvage my franchise and my family. I was not trying to hurt them; I love those people in Cleveland, but not the politicians and not the business community."
The controversy has prevented Modell from being voted into pro football's Hall of Fame. There is no doubt, considering his expansive career, that he belongs, his players say.
"Oh man, this is one of the greats of the game, someone who loves the game and loves his players and is genuine about it; his heart is pure," said Ray Lewis, the Ravens linebacker. "Our entire team feels this way, especially the guys who have been around awhile. He just loves pro football and every player here is like one of his kids. It's just a beautiful thing."
Even after his retirement, Modell plans to remain with the Ravens. Bisciotti has insisted that Modell keep an office next door to his, and Modell said he would act as a consultant though he wants "no title and no salary and will speak when asked to speak and just play the whole thing by ear."
After 43 years, who knows the perfect blueprint for what follows?
"The magic comes in winning, and even though we're young, we've got a chance to get back and win that Super Bowl," Modell said. "This is going to be an exciting and rewarding year for the league. We've stabilized our league and we've got a great game that can still grow. 
"I used to say there is nothing like 1 o'clock on Sunday afternoons," Modell said. "But now you can say, with the growth of this league, that there is nothing like Monday nights, Thursday nights, Saturday afternoons. That's the magic, too."

Two Are Enough
Traditionalists in the N.F.L. have long preferred to keep three quarterbacks on their rosters. This season, however, seven teams will enter the season with only two quarterbacks.
Those teams are Indianapolis, Washington, San Diego, Denver, Buffalo, Atlanta and Miami. The final two on that list will add a third in a month or two when injured quarterbacks return. But the other five have decided that two are enough.
Some are leaning that way because of salary-cap issues. Others are doing so to create more depth at particular positions, especially at defensive back.
But it is a risky trend. Seven teams started three different quarterbacks last year, primarily because of injuries. 
A few teams may look for another player to fill in as a third quarterback. In Denver, for example, the third-string quarterback is receiver Rod Smith.
If the gamble pays off, those teams with two will have saved money while strengthening themselves at other critical positions. It is a high-risk-high-reward decision that will be closely monitored by other teams.

Defending a Streak
Indianapolis holds the league record for defensive touchdowns scored in consecutive opening-day games with four. When the Colts travel to Cleveland on Sunday, they will look to extend the streak.
All four games ended in victories for the Colts by an average margin of 13.5 points. Since 1970 only three teams have managed three straight years of defensive scores in opening-day victories: Washington (1973-75), the Houston Oilers (1991-93) and the Giants (1997-99).
The team with the current best opening-game winning streak is Miami with 11.

From Arena League to N.F.L.
Proving once again that players come from many different places and that hidden gems exist, the Arena Football League has produced five players who earned a spot on N.F.L. rosters: Dwaine Carpenter, a defensive back in San Francisco who played for the A.F.L.'s Buffalo Destroyers; Antonio Chatman, a kick returner/receiver in Green Bay who played for the Chicago Rush; Chris Horn, a receiver in Kansas City who played for the Arizona Rattlers; Mike Furrey, a receiver in St. Louis who played for the New York Dragons; and Kevin McLeod, a fullback in Cleveland who played for the Orlando Predators.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Art Modell, entering his last season as the majority owner of the Baltimore Ravens, still defends moving the team from Cleveland. (Photo by Associated Press); Green Bay receiver/returner Antonio Chatman played in the Arena League. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); GOLF (78%); FAMILY (76%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (75%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); HEART DISEASE (70%); WORLD WAR II (61%); AIR FORCES (61%) Football

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FAVORITE CHICKEN CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE RAVENS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%) Baltimore Ravens

PERSON: STEPHEN BISCIOTTI (58%) Thomas George; Art Modell

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



107 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Plans to Use Tax-Free Bonds for Midtown Tower Cause a Stir 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Plans to build a 50-story headquarters for Bank of America on 42nd Street have stirred opposition from some real estate executives and civic groups because of the bank's request for $650 million in tax-exempt bonds allocated for post-Sept. 11 rebuilding.
 The critics do not object to the construction of the 2.1-million-square-foot tower near the Avenue of the Americas. But they said they do oppose the state and city using special subsidies designed to encourage the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan for projects in Midtown, particularly because some of the new office space will compete for tenants with acres of vacant office space downtown. 
 "The bonds were supposed to spur economic development in parts of the city that need it," Bettina Damiani, project director for Good Jobs New York. "The fact that they want to use them in Midtown is mind-boggling. What other area on the face of the planet is less needy?" 
A major real estate executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to antagonize Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, also objected. "It sends the wrong message," he said. "It looks like they're more focused on Midtown than down here."
City officials and some business groups countered that the Bank of America building, a joint venture with the developer Douglas Durst, would solidify New York's position as an international financial center, thereby making it a good candidate for the special tax-free financing known as Liberty Bonds.
"Their decision reinforces New York's pre-eminent position as a financial center," said Andrew M. Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. "We're happy to help them consolidate and grow their presence here."
The Bank of America project is scheduled for a public hearing on Sept. 29. The city has indicated that the project could get an unspecified amount of tax breaks.
A second project in Midtown has also set off criticism. Forest City Ratner has asked city officials for $400 million in Liberty Bonds for its part of a new building on Eighth Avenue, between 40th and 41st Streets, which it is developing in partnership with The New York Times Company. But city and state officials said they have not decided what to do with Forest City's application.
The Times Company and Forest City Ratner reached an agreement with state officials more than two years ago to build a 52-story tower as part of a deal in which the newspaper got $26.1 million in sales-tax breaks and other incentives. Now Forest City claims it needs the Liberty Bonds because it cannot obtain construction financing for its part of the tower.
In 2002, the federal government provided up to $8 billion in Liberty Bonds for residential, commercial and utility projects to revive New York's economy after the September 2001 terror attack. The legislation for the bonds set aside up to $2 billion for commercial projects outside Lower Manhattan.
So far, state and city officials have approved $400 million in bonds to rebuild 7 World Trade Center and $113 million to erect an office building in Brooklyn for Bank of New York, which was forced to move some of its operations away from Lower Manhattan after the attack. So there is plenty of bond money available, but critics contend the special financing was never intended for thriving areas like Midtown.
Bank of America had more than 400 employees at the World Trade Center, as well as more than 2,000 in Midtown. After the bank announced plans to consolidate its operations in Manhattan, state and city officials tried unsuccessfully to persuade the company to move downtown. Instead, the bank focused on a proposal by Mr. Durst to build a new tower at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas.
Under the terms of its joint venture with Mr. Durst, the bank would move its investment banking and asset management operations to about 1.1 million square feet in the tower from two buildings in Midtown. The bank has told state and city officials that it would add 500 to 1,000 jobs.
"This is a very positive step in our economic recovery from 9/11, when financial services took a huge blow," said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership. "It in no way conflicts with the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan."
But critics argue that the bonds were not intended for Midtown office projects, or speculative office space.
Councilman Alan J. Gerson, who represents Lower Manhattan, said it was "an abuse of the program" to use Liberty Bonds where they were not needed, rather than in areas hit hardest by the aftermath of 9/11.
At a private meeting at the Carlyle Hotel last month with Mr. Alper of the Economic Development Corporation, William C. Rudin, John E. Zuccotti and other downtown property owners argued against using Liberty Bonds in Midtown, according to executives who attended the meeting. And at a meeting with members of the Real Estate Board of New York, other real estate executives voiced their opposition to Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff. Carl B. Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, did the same in a meeting with the Economic Development Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan highlighting proposed Bank of America building: Projects in Midtown compete with post-9/11 rebuilding downtown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CITIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); SALES TAX (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (62%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Area Planning and Renewal; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (80%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%) Charles V Bagli; Douglas Durst

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



108 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; 
Publisher That Went Bust Is Hoping to Go Boom Again

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
No publishing company flew higher than Future Network USA in the late 1990's, propelled by the booming new-economy magazine Business 2.0, and few fell harder in the bust, done in by disappearing ad dollars and corporate hubris. But two years after a drastic restructuring, a chastened Future is growing again in the United States, this time with a twist.
 Future is expected to announce today that it is buying Guitar World magazine and three ancillary publications from Harris Publications for $16 million. 
 The purchase of the Guitar World properties is an effort by the technology-obsessed publisher -- the owner of MacAddict, Maximum PC, PC Gamer and magazines for the PlayStation and XBox formats -- to broaden its base into the less cyclical consumer-enthusiast field. The strategy also mirrors that of its parent company, Future Network P.L.C., a publicly held publisher that dominates the music-enthusiast market in Britain. But the company still plans to increase its technology holdings. Beginning in January, the company will begin publishing Mobile PC, a monthly consumer magazine dedicated to wireless technology and devices. 
But it is sometimes difficult to tell whether Future is imprisoned by its past or has learned from it.
"We have become the hunter instead of the hunted," said Jonathan Simpson-Bint, president of Future Network USA. "We rehabilitated the U.S. business back from the brink." Future's United States division, which lost $20 million in 2001, made $7 million in profit last year.
"We have returned to our core competency, which is focusing on a narrow and deep audience hungry for knowledge about specific passions," Mr. Simpson-Bint said. "They are people that are willing to pay a premium price for a premium product."
That credo was part of the company's initial foray into United States publishing in 1993, when Chris Anderson, the founder and former chief of the company, purchased a controlling interest in GP Publications, a small North Carolina-based publisher of computer and interactive-entertainment magazines. Mr. Anderson had racked up considerable success in Britain, in large part by obtaining high newsstand prices for his magazines by packaging them in bags holding cassettes and floppy disks with free game previews. He thought a similar strategy would work in the United States, and in 1994, he sold his interests in the British company to Pearson P.L.C. to concentrate on the United States market.
Mr. Anderson's approach, despite significant skepticism when he arrived, connected with American consumers. The company, renamed Imagine Media, moved to San Francisco and adopted the culture -- the extravagant parties and taste for risk -- of many of the nascent technology companies in the area. In June 1998, Mr. Anderson was part of a management-led buyout of Future in Britain and the company then went public on the London Stock Exchange in 1999.
Business 2.0, one of a number of new-economy business titles that was started at the time, was an immediate hit, racking up $30 million in profits just three years after its start. The money was used to fuel a huge expansion in the United States in 2000, including five more magazines -- the computer publications T3, DigitalFOTO, Maximum Linux, along with Revolution, a techno-music publication, and Total Movie, a film magazine that adopted some components of the so-called lad magazine formula. 
But then accounting irregularities in the French division of the business, along with a huge drop in advertising sales in the technology industries the company depended on, led to a depressed stock price and near collapse. Business 2.0 was sold to Time Inc. for $68 million in 2001. (Time Inc. combined the magazine with its own new-economy magazine, eCompany Now, and took the name Business 2.0 along with its list of subscribers.) After the sale of Business 2.0, Mr. Anderson left, the five new magazines were closed along with the company's extensive Web sites, and the board in Britain began asking fundamental questions about the viability of the American business. 
"Chris was a great innovator and hugely successful," Mr. Simpson-Bint said. "But when the dot-com collapse occurred, it was like that moment in 'Star Wars' on the Death Star when all four exit doors start closing at the same time on Harrison Ford. Chris was more exposed than most, and he got clobbered."
It fell to Mr. Simpson-Bint, 36, who had been with the company for 10 years, to examine the pieces and see if they could be put together again. Of the 100 remaining employees, 20 were declared "stakeholders" and shown the books so they understood the challenges ahead. The company, which once held a retreat in Yosemite that cost $100,000, shifted its morale-building efforts to a camping trip with free beer and little else, at a total cost of $2,500. Accounting people became collectors, editors were squeezed for ever more productivity, and costs were cut at every turn.
At the same time, management worked to find a ladder out of the deep hole that it was in. In November 2001, the company won the rights to be the official magazine of Xbox, Microsoft's entry into the video gaming market. While XBox, with 6.2 million sold in the United States, is still dwarfed by Sony's PlayStation, the magazine results so far have pleased both Future and Microsoft. 
"Future came in and really believed in the Xbox," said Bill Nielsen, director of Xbox brand marketing at Microsoft. "They are very sharp guys and were willing to take a big risk on Xbox when most people didn't think we would be around after a couple of years."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Turning a Profit From Lower Sales"After a round of severe cost-cutting, Future Network USA, which publishes specialty magazines like PC Gamer, had strong results last year. Figures in millions Revenue'01: $74'02: 63 Adjusted operating profit*'01: -$20'02: +7 *Before taxes, interest and amortization(Source by Future Network)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); PUBLISHING (58%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%) MAGAZINES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: FUTURE PLC (84%); FUTURE NETWORK PLC (69%); PEARSON PLC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FUTURE NETWORK (CO); GUITAR WORLD (MAGAZINE); HARRIS PUBLICATIONS; MOBILE PC (MAGAZINE); BUSINESS 2.0 (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: FUTR (LSE) (84%); PSON (LSE) (62%); PSO (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (62%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: CARR, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



109 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: The China Syndrome 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A funny thing happened this week: the Bush administration, with its aggressive unilateralism, and its contempt for diplomacy and international institutions, suddenly staked its fortunes on the kindness of foreigners.
 All the world knows about the Iraq about-face: having squandered our military strength in a war he felt like fighting even though it had nothing to do with terrorism, President Bush is now begging the cheese-eaters and chocolate-makers to rescue him. What may not be equally obvious is that he's doing the same thing on the economic front. Having squandered his room for economic maneuver on tax cuts that pleased his party base but had nothing to do with job creation, Mr. Bush is now asking China to help him out. 
 Not, of course, that Mr. Bush admits to having made any mistakes. Indeed, Mr. Bush seems to have a serious case of "l'etat, c'est moi": he impugns the patriotism of anyone who questions his decisions. 
If you ask why he diverted resources away from hunting Al Qaeda, which attacked us, to invading Iraq, which didn't, he suggests that you're weak on national security. And it's the same for anyone who questions his economic record: "They tell me it was a shallow recession," he said Monday. "It was a shallow recession because of the tax relief. Some say, well, maybe the recession should have been deeper. That bothers me when people say that." 
That is, if you ask why he pushed long-term tax cuts rather than focusing on job creation, he says you wanted a deeper recession. It bothers me when he says that.
Of course, nobody says the recession should have been deeper. What critics argued -- correctly -- was that Mr. Bush's economic strategy of tax cuts for the rich, with a few token breaks for the middle class, would generate maximum deficitsbut minimum stimulus. "They" may tell him it was a shallow recession, but the long-term unemployed won't agree.
And the fact that even with all that red ink the recovery is still jobless should lead him to wonder whether he's running the wrong kind of deficits. 
Instead, however, he's decided to plead with the Chinese for help.
Admittedly, it didn't sound like pleading. It sounded as if he was being tough: "We expect there to be a fair playing field when it comes to trade. . . . And we intend to keep the rules fair." Everyone understood this to be a reference to the yuan, China's supposedly undervalued currency, which some business groups claim is a major problem for American companies. 
By the way, even if the Chinese did accede to U.S. demands to increase the value of the yuan, it wouldn't have much effect unless it was a huge revaluation. And China won't agree to a huge revaluation because its huge trade surplus with the U.S. is largely offset by trade deficits with other countries.
Still, even a modest currency shift by Beijing would allow Mr. Bush to say that he was doing something about the loss of manufacturing jobs other than appointing a "jobs czar." And so John Snow, the Treasury secretary, went off to Beijing to request an increase in the yuan's value.
But he got no satisfaction. A quick look at the situation reveals one reason why: the U.S. currently has very little leverage over China. Mr. Bush needs China's help to deal with North Korea -- another crisis that was allowed to fester while the administration focused on Iraq. Furthermore, purchases of Treasury bills by China's central bank are one of the main ways the U.S. finances its trade deficit.
Nobody is quite sure what would happen if the Chinese suddenly switched to, say, euros -- a two-point jump in mortgage rates? -- but it's not an experiment anyone wants to try.
There may also be another reason. The Chinese remember very well that in Mr. Bush's first few months in office, his officials described China as a "strategic competitor" -- indeed, they seemed to be seeking a new cold war until terrorism came along as a better issue. So Mr. Bush may find it as hard to get help from China as from the nations those same officials ridiculed as "old Europe."
Sic transit and all that. Just four months after Operation Flight Suit, the superpower has become a supplicant to nations it used to insult. Mission accomplished! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); CURRENCIES (83%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AL-QAEDA (71%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (56%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



110 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
Bush Foreign Policy and Harsh Reality

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Few administrations enjoy making midcourse corrections in their foreign policies, much less admitting to making them. But this week it has become unmistakable that President Bush's team has had to rethink its approaches on Iraq and North Korea after a succession of setbacks and pressures at home and abroad.
 In Iraq, the deadly bombings of late summer spurred a longstanding effort by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, bubbling under the surface since July, to widen the roles of the United Nations and American allies in the increasingly troubled occupation of Iraq. 
 On North Korea, the administration, which initially had insisted that there would be no concessions to the government of Kim Jong Il until a complete dismantling of its nuclear program had been accomplished, now says a step-by-step process could yield interim benefits for the North. Again, State Department officials who had long advocated a more conciliatory approach appear to have strengthened their hand. 
Even as they declare that both these changes are evolutionary, administration officials acknowledge that after a grueling war in Iraq, a pendulum has begun to swing in the direction of diplomacy. "When negotiations start to meet reality, positions have to evolve," a senior administration official said today.
The harsh reality of Iraq, where the American military proved easily able to win a war but cannot yet fashion peace, has all but overwhelmed other calculations, not only in the administration but in Congress. Lawmakers entering a campaign season returned from summer recess this week after hearing constituents' questions about the casualties and costs that have mounted since the war.
The doubts and questions in Congress have enhanced the stature of Mr. Powell. Even Pentagon skepticism about the international approach waned as the strain imposed on the American forces by the occupation of Iraq became increasingly evident to military commanders. 
The secretary was said by other officials to have seized on a delicate and painful moment to convince Mr. Bush in recent weeks that American allies are essential to paying the military and economic cost of securing and rebuilding Iraq, not to mention bringing troops home next year.
While Mr. Powell's hand has been strengthened, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, the hero of the successful invasion of Iraq in March and April, is now facing tough questions over why the United States seemed ill prepared for the postwar period.
In the background of Washington's sodden and sullen September is a budget deficit approaching $500 billion for the next year, even before the cost of Iraq operations is added in, and an anemic economic recovery accompanied by no sign of an easing of joblessness.
With Mr. Bush entering what could become a tough re-election fight, the White House can ill afford to look as if it is staggering overseas.
Help has to be sought in Iraq, but other nations will demand a say in how their resources are mobilized. Allies in Turkey, India and Pakistan were asked to send troops, but insisted on a United Nations mandate.
Now, Mr. Rumsfeld has even spoken of giving others a seat at the table. But from the indications of France, Germany and Arab nations -- all of which opposed the war -- they want that seat to come with a vote.
"The question is whether the world is ready to pick the United States up off the floor and dust them off," said a senior Western envoy involved in discussions on Iraq. "A lot of people aren't ready yet."
The United States is now circulating a resolution that would give the United Nations increasing authority over the future of Iraq, though not over the military command.
With about 140,000 American troops in Iraq and 21,000 non-American troops -- about half of them British -- the number of fresh foreign troops by next year is probably not going to exceed 15,000 or so, a senior American official said.
Given the unsettled situation in Iraq, that number may not be enough to help Mr. Bush even to start bringing troops home before the election next year.
France, Germany and other European nations where anti-American and anti-Bush sentiments run high are not likely to send troops.
But they may be able to help defray some of the economic costs, which administration officials say have, if anything, been a bigger factor than the military situation in forcing the turn to the United Nations.
The Pentagon estimates that the military occupation has been costing nearly $4 billion a month.
This week, international experts enlisted by the American-led occupation authorities estimated that the loss of oil revenues and cost of operating a civilian government in Iraq is projected at $20 billion for 2004.
That figure was given to diplomats from potential donor nations in Brussels this week, and by all accounts they were stunned. 
"Think of it this way," said an official familiar with the Brussels session. "You'd be putting more than a third of the world's development assistance in 2004 into a country with the second largest oil reserves in the world. Imagine what that does to the rest of the poor countries in the world. All of Africa doesn't get that much money."
This official said the United States would have to "dramatically trim" its requests and put up a huge sum to goad other nations into donating.
But a senior administration official said: "We expect billions of dollars out of the rest of the world. Billions."
American officials recognize that in order to secure anything like those amounts, L. Paul Bremer III, the chief American administrator in Iraq, might either have to step aside or at least have to share his task of running Iraq with a successor to Sergio Vieira de Mello, the special envoy who was killed in the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on Aug. 19.
While the Iraq situation has unfolded, the administration has also made a big adjustment on North Korea. 
China and to a lesser extent South Korea -- and to an even lesser extent Japan -- advocate a policy of some actions if North Korea seems headed toward the goal of giving up its nuclear arms and programs.
"Everybody is realistic enough to know that you can't have a negotiation where one side does everything before the other side does anything," a senior official said. "I've never seen a negotiation like that. Even with the Japanese surrender after World War II, we said immediately that the emperor could stay." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); BUDGETS (66%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); KIM JONG IL (57%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHINA (79%) IRAQ; NORTH KOREA; CHINA; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



111 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Would Aid North Korea If It Gives Up Nuclear Arms
President Bush has authorized American negotiators to say that he is prepared to take a range of steps to aid North Korea -- from easing sanctions to a peace treaty -- if North Korea will begin to surrender its nuclear weapons and all the facilities to develop them. A1

Rumsfeld Seeks More Iraqi Help
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld arrived in Iraq and said his highest priority was to accelerate the recruitment, training and deployment of former Iraqi officers to combat disorder and violence. A1

Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain acknowledged that his government was facing a tough time, but asserted that he still thought Britain was right to go to war in Iraq and insisted he would forge ahead with an ambitious domestic agenda. A10

The leaders of France and Germany said their countries would not support an American draft of a Security Council resolution that would authorize an expanded international force under American control and financial assistance for Iraq. A9

Afghan Troops Rout Militants
Afghan soldiers claimed success in a two-week campaign against the Taliban in the southeastern mountains. American Special Forces soldiers also took part in the operation alongside Afghanistan's government troops. Dozens of Taliban fighters died in the fighting. A6

Pakistani Man in U.S. Custody
The wife of a Pakistani man who disappeared two months ago said she had received a letter from her husband, Saifullah Paracha, saying he was in American detention in Afghanistan. In Manhattan, their son was charged with trying to help an associate of Al Qaeda obtain travel documents to enter the United States. A11

Abbas Demands Support
Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime minister, challenged the Palestinian parliament to back his agenda or dissolve his government, seeking to broaden his authority over security in hopes of renewing peace talks with Israel. A3

NATIONAL A12-17

Appeals Court Nominee Withdraws After Long Fight
Miguel Estrada, whose nomination by President Bush to an important federal appeals court post was blocked by an extraordinary filibuster mounted by Senate Democrats, gave up his two-year struggle. A1

Democratic Candidates Debate
Democrats seeking the nomination to run against President Bush met in Albuquerque for the first of six official party debates. A1

Signs of Hope for Davis
There is a growing sentiment among Democrats and many political analysts that Gov. Gray Davis of California has a fighting chance of surviving the effort to oust him. A15

Celibacy Issue Flares in Church
Several leading American bishops released letters defending mandatory celibacy for priests as a vital church tradition, adding to the debate among Roman Catholics. A12

Government to Cut Lie Tests
The Energy Department said that it was sharply cutting the number of lie detector tests it will give to people with access to nuclear secrets, particularly at the nation's weapons laboratories. A17

Many Could Lose Subsidies
More than 100,000 low-income families could lose their rent subsidies next year under a spending bill passed by a Senate committee and recently approved by the House. A15

Republicans Split on Medicare
Senior Republicans in Congress appeared to be far from agreement after working to thrash out their differences over a bill adding prescription drug benefits to Medicare. A16

Bush Defends Economic Policy
President Bush opened a new campaign to try to persuade the nation that his economic policies were working and to counter Democratic criticism that he had provided tax cuts for the rich while millions of Americans lost jobs. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Backup Power Availability Drove Restoration Plan
The decision after last month's blackout to restore power first to Westchester County and the city's outer boroughs and then at last to Manhattan was dictated by the location of available alternative sources of electricity, the president of Consolidated Edison said. B2

A key element in the blackout may have been the inability of the Midwest Independent System Operator to learn for 64 minutes prior to the collapse about transmission line failures in Ohio and to adjust the system to compensate. A14

Sentencing U.N. Gunman
A Federal judge in Manhattan postponed the sentencing of Steve Kim, a Korean-born postal worker who admitted he fired a gun at the United Nations in 2002. Prosecutors said a lenient sentence would set a bad precedent for terrorism cases. B3

Dismissal Causes Conflict
A decision by a federal judge to dismiss the indictment against a white federal drug agent who shot an unarmed black suspect to death led the Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, to promise an appeal. B1

Town Hearing on Volleyball
East Hampton is considering a bill that would limit the number of people who can gather for residential parties. The measure is a response to weekend backyard volleyball games held by Latino immigrants. B1

WEEKEND E1-26; E27-34

ESCAPES F1-12

OBITUARIES C11

SPORTS D1-8

Tennis Tournament's Bad Luck
Foul weather has transformed this year's United States Open into a comedy errors. The dominant image has been maintenance workers wiping away puddles. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Agreement at Verizon
Verizon and its unions announced their agreement on a tentative contract that includes a one-year wage freeze and retains strong job security protections that the company had sought to eliminate. C1

S.E.C. Looks Into Mutual Funds
The commission has asked big mutual fund companies to provide their policies on who can trade in their shares late in the day and who can jump in and out of funds quickly. C1

Committee Blocks Networks
A Senate committee approved a provision that would block a new rule that allows the nation's largest television networks to grow bigger by buying more stations. C1

Severance Bonanza Challenged
Federal regulators demanded that Freddie Mac treat two top executives who left the company in June as if they were fired, which would strip them of more than $50 million in severance and other benefits. C1

Price Cuts Shake Up Industry
Universal Music Group's decision to slash the prices of its CD's left the industry scrambling to respond. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Mutual fund misdeeds; Miguel Estrada bows out; the stalled Middle East peace plan; umbrellas anyone?

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof; Paul Krugman.

Crossword E21
TV Listings E24
Public Lives B2
Weather B7

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); FILIBUSTER (86%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); IRAQ WAR (71%); AL-QAEDA (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); RELIGION (62%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); JUDGES (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TONY BLAIR (54%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



112 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2983 words

HEADLINE: Industry Fights to Put Imprint on Drug Bill 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and GARDINER HARRIS 

 BODY:
In the thick of the 2000 presidential campaign, executives at Bristol-Myers Squibb, one of the nation's largest drug companies, received an urgent message: donate money to George W. Bush.
 The message did not come from Republican campaign officials. It came from top Bristol-Myers executives, according to four executives who say they donated to Mr. Bush under pressure from their bosses. They said that they were urged to donate the maximum -- $1,000 in their own name and $1,000 in their spouse's -- and were warned that the company's chief executive would be notified if they failed to give. 
 Bristol-Myers said no one was forced to donate. But elsewhere in the drug industry, the message about the election was much the same. At some companies, officials circulated a videotape of Vice President Al Gore railing against the high price of prescription drugs. A torrent of contributions for Mr. Bush and other Republicans resulted. And the money kept flowing, right through the elections of 2002. 
Those donations may soon pay off handsomely for the pharmaceutical business. Four years ago, a Democrat was in the White House and the industry was bitterly fighting a prescription drug proposal that it said would have led to price controls. Today, a Republican-controlled Congress is preparing to send a Republican president a measure with a central provision -- the use of private health plans to deliver Medicare prescription drug benefits -- that is tailor-made to the industry's specifications.
The story of how pharmaceutical manufacturers helped shape the Medicare drug benefit is, in part, that of a calculated decision by a lucrative industry to throw its financial weight behind one political party -- with $50 million in campaign contributions over the last four years, the vast majority to Republicans. It is also the story of a dogged, mostly unseen campaign that included a small army of lobbyists in Washington and a network of industry-financed groups, which carried the drug makers' message to the public.
Throughout, the industry had a single goal: to defeat any legislation that would let Medicare negotiate steep discounts on the prices of medicines for its 40 million beneficiaries. 
Instead, if there had to be a prescription drug benefit, industry executives agreed that it should be administered by the private sector, where insurance companies would negotiate on their own, without Medicare's influence. That is precisely what will occur if bills passed by the House and Senate are reconciled and a law is signed by President Bush. Both measures envision taxpayers spending $400 billion over the next 10 years on the drug makers' products, while banning government officials from even seeking volume discounts.
"The drug lobby has just emasculated Congress with tons of money," said Representative Pete Stark of California, the senior Democrat on the health subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, whose Republican leaders wrote the House Medicare bill. "They bought themselves a deal."
But Republicans say that their legislation will lead to discounts and that the industry gave up as much as it got. 
"I think the drug industry would rather not have any bill," said Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who, as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, is a driving force behind the legislation. "But they know there is going to be a bill because of public demand for it, and I think they are just swallowing hard."
For the manufacturers, the stakes could hardly be higher. The United States, the last industrialized country with unregulated drug prices, provides half of the industry's revenues, up from less than a third a decade ago, and most of its profits. And the elderly are its best customers. Some companies estimate that up to half of their sales in the United States come from drugs bought by the elderly. Pfizer alone sells medicines to treat cholesterol, blood pressure and arthritis problems that brought in $17 billion last year -- nearly all from Medicare-eligible patients.
Some companies, like Merck, are pressing hard for the legislation, while others are lukewarm. A number of drug executives say they fear that the proposed benefit is so skimpy that Congress will be forced over time to improve it -- a move that will eventually lead to price controls. One described the measure as "deeply flawed."
Yet even those drug executives with reservations say they will not stand in the legislation's way. A spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, an industry trade group, said that passing a Medicare drug benefit "remains the top priority."
"I kind of hate to say the industry got what it wanted," said Ian Spatz, vice president for public affairs at Merck. "But I think it's a fair solution that does give people access to our medicines, and does it in a way that is least likely to lead to price controls."

The Beginnings
Clinton Plan Spurred Industry Into Action
It was the White House -- the Clinton White House -- that provided the impetus for the drug makers' long-running campaign to shape the public discussion about a Medicare drug benefit.
Late in his second term, Mr. Clinton proposed giving elderly Americans some relief from the cost of prescription drugs. Knowing that a benefit administered by Medicare would never pass muster with Republicans, he called for Medicare to contract with private pharmaceutical benefits managers, or P.B.M.'s -- one per region of the country -- to manage drug purchases for the government.
The drug industry hated the idea. Private benefits managers had muscled their way into positions of considerable power just a few years earlier, and drug makers were stunned by their ability to drive down prices and even shift sales to competitors' pills.
So the drug makers took a page from the insurance industry's successful Harry and Louise advertising campaign, which helped defeat the Clinton health care plan in 1994. 
This time, an arthritic bowler named Flo was featured in a $30 million ad campaign. Flo's message was simple and direct: "I don't want big government in my medicine cabinet."
The ads were devastatingly effective -- and infuriating to the Clinton administration, which responded by threatening the industry with price controls and issuing reports that excoriated drug prices and profits.
With the drug companies being painted as pariahs, a handful of executives concluded that they could not stand in the way of a Medicare drug benefit forever. Among them was Raymond V. Gilmartin, the chief executive of Merck.
"We came to believe that people will deal with the affordability of medicines one way or another -- either through access and competition or price controls," Mr. Gilmartin said. "We decided that getting seniors access reduced the risk of price controls."
On Capitol Hill, meanwhile, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, was quietly reaching out not just to Mr. Gilmartin, but to Gordon Binder, then the president of the industry trade group.
"It was apparent to me that if they were going to block it, nothing was going to be achieved," Mr. Kennedy said. "I've been around here long enough to know that was the case. So the question was whether you could find any common ground."
Administration officials also had talks with industry officials, hoping for a compromise. But when news of conciliatory moves between drug makers and Democrats became public, some Republicans and a few industry executives were furious. Executives at several companies suspected that Mr. Gilmartin supported a drug benefit because he had hopes that Medco, a Merck pharmacy benefits subsidiary, would land a crucial role in buying drugs.
"Having the whole benefit run through a couple of P.B.M.'s -- especially if one were Merck-Medco -- could be a disaster," said one industry executive, speaking on condition of anonymity. Another, at a different pharmaceutical company, said, "Gilmartin wrapped himself in some clever rhetoric of private-sector solutions, and it used to drive us crazy."
Merck has since spun off Medco, and Mr. Gilmartin said that his support of a Medicare drug benefit had nothing to do with Medco.
In the end, the talks between the drug industry and Democrats went nowhere. The industry pinned its hopes on the election of Mr. Bush, who supported a Medicare drug benefit, so long as it was administered through the private sector. In early 2000, the pharmaceutical industry announced it would do the same.
"When Bush came out for it, that nailed it," one industry executive said. "Where else are we going to go?"

The Contributions
A Push for Money, Mostly for the G.O.P.
Republican campaign officials were keenly aware of the drug industry's growing anxiety about how a drug benefit might be set up.
In a letter dated April 9, 1999, Jim Nicholson, then the Republican National Committee chairman, wrote to Charles A. Heimbold Jr., then the chief executive of Bristol-Myers, to discuss plans for a coalition to lobby for issues important to drug companies.
"We must keep the lines of communication open if we want to continue passing legislation that will benefit your industry," Mr. Nicholson wrote in the letter, which has since become public as part of litigation on campaign finance rules.
He encouraged Bristol-Myers -- already a major donor to Republicans -- to give $250,000 to join the national committee's Season Pass program, which offered donors "premier seating" at a fund-raising gala and "V.I.P. benefits" at the Republican convention in Philadelphia in 2000. 
Bristol-Myers and its employees contributed $2 million to the party and its candidates during the 2000 campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that tracks campaign financing. That ranked Bristol-Myers second, behind Pfizer. Mr. Heimbold, who was a co-host at a fund-raiser for Mr. Bush, gave $206,830 to Republicans in the 2000 campaign, according to the center. 
In one letter from Richard J. Lane, who at the time was president of Bristol-Myers's worldwide medicines division and co-chairman of its employee political action committee, company executives were chided for failing to contribute in sufficient numbers. "The politically motivated attacks against our industry have intensified during this election season and hostile candidates have one goal in mind -- to shackle our industry with price controls," Mr. Lane wrote.
Although the letter said contributions were voluntary, four former Bristol-Myers executives, all speaking on condition of anonymity, said the company's huge contributions resulted in part from aggressive internal solicitations. Each said they were told that a list of those who did not contribute would be given to Mr. Heimbold.
"The need to gather in money to provide green power for our Washington activities was spelled out in excruciating detail to all company officers," one of these executives said.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Heimbold, now the United States ambassador to Sweden, said she had no comment.
Federal election law bars companies from using coercion to force someone to make a political contribution. A spokesman for Bristol-Myers, John Skule, said yesterday that while "we ask for active participation in the political process," no one was forced to donate, and the company "takes very seriously its duty" to comply with election laws.
"There was not one person in the company who lost their job because they didn't donate," Mr. Skule said.
The push to gather money for Republicans was prevalent throughout the drug industry during the 2000 campaign. With Vice President Gore saying that drug makers were gouging the elderly, the industry contributed $20 million to candidates and parties during the campaign, 79 percent of it to Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
More important, the industry bought $50 million in TV commercials and millions more in radio, newspaper and direct-mail ads. The ads assured voters that Republican lawmakers were fighting for a Medicare drug benefit. Drug makers also gave the United States Chamber of Commerce $10 million more to run ads under its name. Months before the election, House Republicans passed a bill along the industry's preferred lines. 
The bill never gained traction in the Democratic-controlled Senate. And when Mr. Bush won the election, the drug makers celebrated. As one industry executive said, "There were a lot of high-fives around here." 

The Victories
A New Congress And a New Outlook
Having a Republican in the White House, however, was not enough to bring elderly people the relief they were clamoring for. In the two years after the 2000 election, a Medicare drug benefit remained bogged down in partisan politics on a divided Capitol Hill.
The drug industry contributed $26 million in the 2002 election, again mostly to Republican candidates. And it again spent millions on television ads in crucial districts around the country -- this time telling voters that Republican incumbents had been fighting to add prescription drugs to Medicare.
"What they did, which was so clever, was run ads in Republican districts saying, 'Thank Congressman X for coming up with a prescription drug program for seniors,' " said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who voted against this year's Medicare bill, saying it favored drug makers while providing the elderly scant relief. "They were helping these guys get re-elected who had done nothing."
Afterward, the drug industry claimed credit for several crucial victories that helped keep Republicans in charge of the House -- and, more important, helped them win back the Senate. Once again, industry executives celebrated on election night.
"Having both houses of Congress Republican-controlled was great," one drug lobbyist said. "Like in Monopoly, when you get to add hotels."
By the time the 108th Congress convened in January 2003, drug makers no longer faced the danger of a benefit administered by Medicare. Lobbyists for consumer groups knew not to bother trying. "The whole question of Medicare being the direct purchaser was off the table at the beginning of this Congress," said John C. Rother, the chief lobbyist for AARP, the organization representing retired people.
Changes within the drug industry also increased the likelihood of a drug benefit delivered through the private sector. Merck's spinoff this year of Medco assuaged much of the concern in the industry that any bill would give Merck an unfair advantage. 
With the framework of a privately delivered benefit already settled, industry lobbyists went to work on the details. A critical issue was ensuring that Medicare administrators could not press directly for discounts. Both the House and Senate bills have language barring Medicare officials from interfering "in any way with negotiations" between insurers and drug companies.
The industry also won a provision in the House bill that puts Medicare in charge of drug benefits for the elderly poor. That would strip the responsibility from state Medicaid programs, which have begun to rein in costs by limiting purchases of high-price drugs. 
In addition, several drug companies pressed lawmakers to include provisions that would allow patients to appeal insurers' decisions to deny coverage for certain drugs, and they fought an amendment to the Senate bill, offered by Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, that would have included money for studies comparing drugs' cost-effectiveness.
"It seems to me if we are going to move toward a market mechanism -- which I have a lot of questions about -- markets thrive on information, and this is information which is largely within the province of the drug companies," Mrs. Clinton said. 
Her amendment failed, receiving just 43 votes. That was no surprise to Senator Clinton, or to others who voted against the Senate bill, including Senator McCain. "There's no doubt in my mind that the drug industry got everything it wanted and more," he said. "It perhaps should be called the 'Leave No Lobbyist Behind Bill.' "
In fact, the industry did not win every battle. Both the House and Senate bills contain provisions that would speed generic drug approvals -- a move the manufacturers of brand-name drugs oppose.
And in the House, a provision that would make it easier for Americans to import cheap drugs from Canada and Europe passed, despite intense industry lobbying against it. Later, the industry persuaded 53 senators to sign a letter saying they oppose the provision. The matter must now be settled in conference.
While the lobbyists worked behind closed doors, the industry financed citizens' groups to bring its message to the public. One such group was the United Seniors Association, whose national spokesman, Art Linkletter, took to the airwaves this spring, congratulating lawmakers who voted to add prescription drugs to Medicare. Gone was the strident campaign featuring Flo, the bowler. Mr. Spatz, of Merck, said there was no need.
"Back then it was really about opposing President Clinton's proposal," he said. "This wasn't about opposing anything. This was about supporting something."
The industry's silence could change, of course, as the House and Senate reconcile their bills. But so far, the behind-the-scenes strategy seems to have been successful. Industry opponents see the low public profile as evidence of the drug makers' satisfaction.
"The dog is not barking," said Bill Vaughan, a lobbyist for Families USA, a consumer group. "I think the dog got what it wanted."

Re-examining Medicare
Since its inception in 1965, Medicare has improved the health of the elderly while playing an outsize role in shaping the delivery of health care for all Americans. 
This article is the second in a series examining efforts to overhaul Medicare and ways that rules of the program influence the economics and practice of medicine.
The articles will remain online at nytimes.com/business.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We came to believe that people will deal with the affordability of medicines one way or another -- either through access and competition or price controls," said Raymond V. Gilmartin, the chief of Merck, shown at company headquarters in Whitehouse Station, N.J. "We decided that getting seniors access reduced the risk of price controls." (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); As Congress has debated a drug benefit for Medicare, the pharmaceutical industry has spent millions on lobbying. Under Charles A. Heimbold Jr., left, Bristol-Myers and its employees contributed $2 million to the Republican Party and its candidates during the 2000 campaign, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. TV ads sponsored by industry-backed groups featured a fictional "Flo," and Art Linkletter. (pg. C4) Chart:Drug companies have increased their political contributions, particularly to Republicans . . . Chart shows drug companies contributions (millions) for Democrats and Republicans, industry rank*, and election cycle from 1990-2002. . . . as the United States market has become increasingly important to the industry. Graph shows worldwide prescription drug sales as opposed to United States sales from 1992-2002. *Among more than 80 industries.(Sources by Center for Responsive Politics; IMS Health)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); LOBBYING (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (89%); DRUG PRICES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (75%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); INSURANCE (64%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); AGED; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE 

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (84%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (58%); PETE STARK (57%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; HARRIS, GARDINER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



113 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York TimesCompany 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Bush Offers Six-Point Plan For an Economic Recovery 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Sept. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush opened up a tough new campaign today to try to persuade the nation that his economic policies are working and to counter intensifying Democratic criticism that he has provided tax cuts for the rich while millions of working Americans have lost jobs.
 At a time when the White House is worried about the effect of the uncertain economy on the president's re-election campaign, Mr. Bush went to a state he urgently wants to win in 2004 for his speech on the economy. 
 He offered what the White House billed as a six-point economic recovery plan: affordable health care, a national energy policy, opening overseas markets to American products, a limit on the awards paid to medical malpractice victims, a simplification of regulations on small business and an appeal to Congress to make his tax cuts permanent.
While this six-point plan was a restatement of ideas the president has pushed for months, it was the first time he had pulled the policies together in such detail under the central theme of economic recovery.
"I have come to this important city, right here in the heart of America, to speak about the future of our nation's economy," Mr. Bush said to the Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce, in the city's Municipal Auditorium. The economy was improving, he said, but "it's hard to feel confidence if you're somebody looking for a job."
The White House called the president's six-point plan "a full agenda for the creation of jobs in America" and said Mr. Bush would deliver much the same speech on Friday in Indiana and throughout the fall, although no new economic initiatives or tax cuts are planned. The strategy appears intended to show the president as actively engaged in an issue that voters consider more important than the reconstruction of Iraq.
Mr. Bush said the economy was showing signs of promise, and he cited near-record levels of home ownership and greater investor confidence in the stock market, though he said too many people were still looking for work. He laid the blame for the persistent joblessness on the Sept. 11 attacks and the recession that began in early 2001, and said his three enacted tax cuts, totaling some $2 trillion over a decade, had saved the United States from even more job losses. So far, some 2.7 million jobs have disappeared since Mr. Bush became president.
"Had we not taken action, this economy would have been in a deeper recession," Mr. Bush said. "It would have been longer, and as many as 1.5 million Americans who went to work this morning would have been out of a job."
To back up Mr. Bush's assertion, White House officials cited a Treasury Department analysis but provided no details.
Opponents of the president said they were confused by his assertion, since it implied that the economy was in particularly bad shape. "He's saying that we would have lost 4.2 million jobs without his policies," said Lawrence Mishel, a critic of Mr. Bush and the president of the Economic Policy Institute, a research institution in Washington. "It's implausible because it implies that the economy was on death's door." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RECESSION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (70%); TERRORISM (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; TAXATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (90%) MISSOURI, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) MISSOURI

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



114 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SAID TO SHIFT APPROACH IN TALKS WITH NORTH KOREA 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush, in a significant shift in his approach to North Korea, authorized American negotiators to say last week that he is prepared to take a range of steps to aid the starving nation -- from gradually easing sanctions to an eventual peace treaty, senior officials today.
 But, officials emphasized, these inducements would be phased in slowly only as North Korea starts surrendering its nuclear weapons, dismantling the facilities used to develop them and permitting inspectors free run of the country. 
 The proposals were described to the North Koreans at the talks, which were held in Beijing last week. They constituted a major departure from the official White House statements earlier this year that North Korea would see no benefits from a new relationship until it shipped all its weapons out of the country and dismantled all of its nuclear facilities. 
The North Koreans did not immediately respond to the new approach, but American officials said they would continue to follow the strategy in future talks, which they expect will resume in October.
In adopting the new strategy, the White House apparently acceded to some of the arguments from within the State Department, and from allies like South Korea, that the talks would break down if Washington could not describe some vision of how relations could improve. 
In a brief telephone conversation this evening, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, disputed the notion that Mr. Bush was making a significant change in strategy. She emphasized that any major benefits to North Korea would come only after it could no longer pose a nuclear threat or rebuild its nuclear capacity.
In the past, Ms. Rice has criticized the Clinton administration's 1994 nuclear freeze agreement with North Korea for giving the country fuel oil before it dismantled anything. 
But she and other officials said that Mr. Bush was presented with the new negotiating strategy at his ranch in Texas last month, and approved the specifics after a meeting of his senior national security aides in late August.
"We're going to give these talks a real chance," Ms. Rice said. "This is the best opportunity for getting a resolution for a long time." But she quickly added that "a lot depends on North Korean behavior."
The latter remark was a clear reference to North Korea's threat, delivered at the talks last week, to conduct a nuclear test and its past threats to make its supplies of plutonium available to the highest bidder. In the past, Mr. Bush has called such comments "blackmail."
The crucial change in the approach at the Beijing talks was in providing for a sequence of rewards to North Korea, according to a State Department official who spoke to reporters today and other officials. 
Late last year, the White House publicly dismissed the notion that North Korea would see any benefits before its entire nuclear infrastructure was eliminated. But even then, a behind-the-scenes struggle was playing out between State Department officials who favored offering some rewards to the North Koreans for intermediate steps and hard-liners in the Pentagon and the vice president's office.
That struggle continued, and officials said the parties were fully engaged in it up to the time the negotiators, led by James A. Kelly, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, left for Beijing. 
But the senior State Department official said today that that "we made clear that we are not seeking to strangle North Korea," and the negotiators said "we are willing to discuss a sequence of denuclearization measures with corresponding measures on the part of both sides."
That approach, dubbed "more for more," has long been advocated by the deputy secretary of state, Richard L. Armitage. But it has been opposed by hard-liners who believe that no agreement with North Korea can ever be trusted, and that it will never give up all aspects of its nuclear program.
Mr. Armitage and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell proposed the new strategy to Mr. Bush last month. Several officials said that it was further nurtured without the involvement of many of the aides to Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense, who have sought to limit the offers to North Korea.
"It helped that a lot of them were on vacation, or thinking about Iraq," one of the architects of the new approach said today. 
That approach, officials in the administration said, was partly an effort to show China, Japan, Russia and South Korea that Mr. Bush was serious about coming up with a diplomatic solution, and to gain their support for a more confrontational approach if North Korea should reject the overtures.
But while the administration officials went out of their way to describe the new strategy as a model of flexibility, they made it clear that the first moves are up to the North Koreans. All of the benefits North Korea most wants -- energy supplies and formal peace treaties -- would come only after arms inspectors had free run of the country for "challenge inspections" of suspected nuclear sites, and after almost all of nuclear infrastructure is shipped out of the country, officials said. "That's going to be the hardest part for them to swallow," one of the officials said.
Another senior administration official -- a hard-liner on North Korea -- predicted that "the North Koreans will never do it."
Other officials have noted that while North Korea has discussed giving up its nuclear facilities for the right price it has said it would never give up its existing "nuclear deterrent."
In fact, it was far from clear that the North Koreans picked up on Mr. Bush's new message, officials said.
After Mr. Kelly laid out the American proposal, the North Korean delegation said the United States was seeking to strangle North Korea, and was secretly considering a pre-emptive strike.
Russian officials who attended the talks suggested that the North Koreans had not been listening to Mr. Kelly's presentation.
"Sometimes their script seemed to be couched in assumptions about what we were going to say," an American official said, "not what we did say."
In recent days China has publicly chastised the Bush administration for not showing enough flexibility. China's vice foreign minister, Wang Yi, who acted as the host of the six-nation talks, said earlier this week the United States "is the main obstacle" to any settlement.
In private, American officials insisted that the Chinese were simply trying to demonstrate to the North Koreans that they were willing to pressure both sides. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FAMINE (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); POWER PLANTS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; FOREIGN AID; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FAMINE; TREATIES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



115 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: In First Encounter, Democrats Hit Bush Over Jobs and Iraq 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
The Democratic presidential candidates hammered President Bush tonight for the turmoil in Iraq, but they disagreed over whether the United States should send more troops there to try to stabilize the region.
 The candidates, in the first official debate of the Democratic presidential contenders, united in denouncing what they said was Mr. Bush's failure to orchestrate international support for invading Iraq. And they repeatedly criticized his handling of the economy, upbraiding him in particular for what several described as a near-catastrophic loss of manufacturing jobs. 
 The debate came at a time when the Democratic presidential contest is coming into sharper focus, and that was reflected by the attacks on Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, by some candidates, in particular Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut. 
But while many of his rivals consider Dr. Dean an increasingly formidable figure in the field, he was the subject of far less criticism than many Democrats -- including he himself -- had expected going into tonight's event.
Instead, Mr. Bush served as the real target of the evening. If anything, the debate underlined the extent to which Democrats view Dr. Dean as a difficult candidate to attack, because of the unconventional nature of his candidacy and of his supporters, many of whom have been drawn into politics for the first time.
The focus on the war tonight was the latest indication -- if the Democrats need it -- of how the conflict in Iraq has molded the contest. Disapproval of Mr. Bush's Iraq policy was voiced even by Democrats who supported the war last year, in a clear reflection of the political difficulties many of them have encountered in the early going of the Democratic presidential campaign.
"This president is a miserable failure on foreign policy," said Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri.
Mr. Gephardt, as a former minority leader, helped Mr. Bush negotiate the resolution that authorized the invasion of Iraq in the first place -- a role that has sharply undercut his standing in Iowa, a state that he won when he ran for president in 1988, but where he now is struggling with Dr. Dean.
Mr. Gephardt said he would not support withdrawing now.
"We cannot cut and run," he said. "We've got to see that this situation is left in a better place. We have to form an international coalition to get it done. This president is a miserable failure. I some days just can't believe -- it's incomprehensible to me -- it's incomprehensible that we would wind up in this situation without a plan and without international cooperation to get this done."
The candidates quarreled over whether the proper response now was to enhance troop strength to try to end the daily toll of American casualties.
Senator Lieberman, one of the strongest supporters of the war, joined his fellow Democrats in criticizing Mr. Bush's handling of the postwar effort, but said he would support increasing the number of forces in Iraq.
"I would send more troops," he said. "The troops that are there need more protection."
Other Democrats argued that this would be a mistake, even Dr. Dean, who in June, despite his opposition to the war, strongly suggested an increase in American troop strength in Iraq.
"If we need more troops, they are going to be foreign troops, not our troops," Dr. Dean said tonight. "Our troops need to come home."
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, whose sometimes ambiguous statements on the war have drawn attack from other Democrats, invoked Mr. Lieberman in opposing the notion of increasing troop strength.
"I disagree with Joe Lieberman on this," he said "We should not send more American troops. That would be the worst thing. We do not want to have more Americanization. We do not want a greater sense of American occupation. We need to minimize that."
The exchanges took place at the first of what will be six official Democratic candidate debates. This one was co-sponsored by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. The party was seeking to demonstrate its interest in Hispanic voters, who Republicans and Democrats view as a central constituency in next year's presidential elections.
Many of the questions were posed by the moderators in English and Spanish, and the candidates stumbled over one another to try to demonstrate their sensitivity to Hispanic issues and culture. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina barked out an "hasta la vista" early on in the debate, while Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio started speaking in Spanish in his very first answer.
But Iraq -- and Mr. Bush's stewardship of the war -- dominated the evening. Mr. Edwards, who voted for the war resolution with Mr. Gephardt, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lieberman, stood by his vote tonight.
"I actually believe that Saddam Hussein being gone is a very good thing, good for the Iraqi people, good for that region of the world," he said. "But I said a year ago - almost a year ago- that it was crucial that in this effort that we bring our friends, allies in and that we have a clear plan of what is going on right now. We have young men and women in a shooting gallery right now. And the prime reason is that we have a president who did not have a plan."
Mr. Kucinich the most outspoken opponent of the war, said: "I believe that it is time to bring the troops home. It is time to bring the U.N. in and get the United States out."
Senator Bob Graham of Florida said the president owed the country answers to many questions about the war on terrorism.
"What will be our long-term commitment in Iraq?" he asked. "What will we do about restarting the war against Osama bin Laden? What is our exit strategy? Who is going to pay this $60 to $80 billion? Are we, this generation of Americans, going to pay our bills, or are we going to ask our children and grandchildren to pay this by adding to an already staggering national debt?"
One of the nine candidates, the Rev. Al Sharpton, was not here tonight, after being delayed in New York by thunderstorms.
The debate also reflected the rising profile of Dr. Dean. 
Mr. Kucinich attacked him, saying, "You can talk about balancing the budget in Vermont, but Vermont doesn't have a military." Senator Lieberman criticized Dr. Dean's proposal to eliminate President Bush's taxes cuts in order to finance his health care plan and his proposal that the United States should enter trade agreements only with countries that share its labor, environmental and human rights standards. 
"The Bush recession would be followed by the Dean depression," Mr. Lieberman said, noting that one in five American jobs are connected to international trade.
Dr. Dean responded that he thought Mexico and other Latin American countries would be willing to abide by international labor and environmental standards, citing the European Union as an effective coalition of countries with such agreements. "I believe that Mexico wants open trade relationships with the United States," he said. "We cannot continue to ship our jobs to countries where they get paid 50 cents an hour."
This was the first bilingual presidential debate in the nation's history. The questions were often asked in both Spanish and English, and some of the candidates rushed to show their solidarity with Hispanics by using Spanish, albeit in an often mangled way. Mr. Kucinich was the first to test his tongue, saying "ahora es el tiempo," -- now is the time -- to bring American troops home from Iraq.
Senator Edwards used his Spanish to make a joke at Mr. Bush's expense -- perhaps inspired by another race, the recall in California in which the actor Arnold Schwarzenegger is running for governor. "The president goes around the country speaking Spanish," he said. "The only Spanish he speaks when it comes to jobs is, Hasta la vista." Dr. Dean, who speaks Spanish more smoothly than any of his rivals, largely because of a summer he spent as a teenager working on a Florida ranch with Cuban immigrants, weighed in with a full sentence saying his health care plan in Vermont covered everyone under age 18.
On the economy, all the candidates criticized President Bush for the loss of three million jobs, most in the manufacturing sector, over the past three years. Senator Edwards proposed a national venture capital fund to spur entrepreneurship. Representative Kucinich vowed to rescind current free trade agreements on his first day in office. And Carol Moseley Braun and Mr. Graham proposed new investments in infrastructure to create jobs.
Highlighting her role as the only woman in the race, Ms. Braun, a former senator and former ambassador to New Zealand, denounced the "sticky floor" on which many women are trapped, earning less than their male counterparts. She said women earned 74 cents on the dollar if they were white, 67 cents if they were African-American and 56 cents if they were Hispanic.
"You can't use 56 cents to buy a dollar loaf of bread," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bob Graham, left, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Carol Moseley Braun, Senator John Kerry, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich, Senator John Edwards, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman and Howard Dean in the first debate of Democratic presidential contenders, in Albuquerque. (Pool photo by Eric Gay)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; DEBATING; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOE LIEBERMAN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (73%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; WILGOREN, JODI; GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); DEAN, HOWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (93%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; ALBUQUERQUE (NM)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003 



116 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: Stone St. Renewal 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "In Downtown Canyon, a Vibrant Social Scene Blooms," by David W. Dunlap (Blocks column, Sept. 4): Like SoHo, TriBeCa and Ladies' Mile, the prosperity and revitalization of the Stone Street Historic District amply illustrate the importance of historic preservation in the economic development of New York City's neighborhoods. 
 One hopes that planners and officials will take a cue from this success story as they begin to revitalize the rest of Lower Manhattan in the wake of the World Trade Center attacks. 
Far better to rebuild and burnish what exists than thoughtlessly to erase our city's past in a rush to the future.

SIMEON BANKOFF
Executive Director
Historic Districts Council
New York, Sept. 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); HISTORIC SITES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HISTORY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Historic Buildings and Sites

ORGANIZATION: Historic Districts Council (NYC)

PERSON: Simeon Bankoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Stone Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



117 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Academic Industrial Complex 

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
At the University of Illinois, more than 1,000 classes on hundreds of subjects were canceled during the last academic year because of severe budget cuts. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, meanwhile, is getting $25 million worth of money and materials from Microsoft as part of a five year-partnership with the company to develop educational technologies. 
 The combination of sometimes desperate financial need and innovative ways to make money is a hallmark of a new era in the relationship between corporate culture and higher education. In articles, symposiums and a host of new books, scholars and educators have been warning that the traditional mission and standards of the university are at risk of being compromised by increasing commercialization. 
 Financial pressures, of course, have always existed. But a series of developments over the last 20 years or so -- a university's ability to patent and license scientific discoveries, the Internet's potential to market ideas, and a competitive cultural ethos that relies more and more on rankings in many fields of endeavor, including college admissions -- are creating new ethical quandaries. At the same time, government financing for college is decreasing, and tuition covers only a portion of the rising cost, which goes up about 6 percent a year. The university, critics warn, is in danger of selling its soul. 
"The language, the way people talk about higher education, has changed," said David L. Kirp, a professor of public policy at the University of California at Berkeley and the author of "Shakespeare, Einstein and the Bottom Line: The Marketing of Higher Education," (Harvard University Press), due out in November. "Market. Consumers. Branding. That we take for granted that higher education is a business is a huge step toward the marketization of higher education."
The Chronicle of Higher Education reported that in the year 2000, colleges received more than $1 billion in receipts from patent licenses, a record for this type of income. Nineteen institutions each received more than $10 million, writes Derek Bok, the former president of Harvard, in his recent book, "Universities in the Marketplace: The Commercialization of Higher Education" (Princeton University Press). 
Paying colleges to put corporate logos on syllabuses and course materials or to place advertising signs on buildings is just one of the worrisome possibilities, he warns. "There is great temptation," he said in an interview.
Butanother group of scholars and educators is arguing that the handwringing is overblown. 
"Commercialization has been an important part of academic life for a long time, especially in American higher education," Steven B. Sample, the president of the University of Southern California, said in an interview. "It's extraordinarily competitive for research grants, gifts, faculty, students. But a lot of the reason for our success has been the intense level of competition. I'm thinking of research universities in particular."
Mr. Sample argues that the poor quality of many public elementary, middle and high schools reflects a lack of competition. Indeed, much of the debate over how to improve primary and secondary education revolves around treating students and parents like consumers, and forcing schools to compete for admissions.
"We may well look back at this period as a tipping point," Mr. Sample said, "but my feeling is things are reasonably in balance. Relatively few universities are involved in businesses that are far afield from the basic academic mission." 
Eric Gould, the chairman of the English department at the University of Denver, agrees that colleges are striving for a balance but adds that universities and their critics both ignore the cultural contradictions that have existed all along .
In his new book, "The University in a Corporate Culture" (Yale University Press), he argues that the dichotomy between the academy and the market is false. He points to two recent surveys (one by The Chronicle of Higher Education, one by the Educational Testing Service) that show that Americans are overwhelmingly confident in their colleges and universities. They are confident, he says, because the American university has been the primary engine for economic development in the last hundred years, its growth paralleling the growth of liberal capitalism. Colleges, after all, train people for the marketplace, offer courses in response to that market and help people advance socially and economically.
A degree from a college or university, Mr. Gould contends, is a market-driven commodity. In other words, degrees are valuable because they translate into good jobs and good money. 
That doesn't mean, he added, that universities have to let go of the notion that there is an intrinsic value in enhancing creativity, pursuing knowledge and encouraging qualities, like curiosity and openness to new ideas, that cannot be easily quantified. "There are deep cultural contradictions in the way universities have developed in the last 100 years," Mr. Gould explained. They "want to teach ethics and educate more Americans," he said, but at the same time, they also want to provide the practical know-how that corporations need. 
Christopher Newfield, an English professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara, also points to the close connection that has always existed between the business world and the academy. In his forthcoming book, "Ivy and Industry: Business and the Making of the American University, 1880-1980" (Duke University Press), Mr. Newfield explores the heyday of industrial capitalism, when the university became central to economic production. In this period of economic uncertainty, he says, there is a deepening fear that the country will not be able to produce a long period of stable affluence like the one that followed World War II.
Like Mr. Gould, he calls for a better balance between the two historical objectives of the university: economic development and human development. He said that as a discipline, the humanities has always understood "the difference between art and work."
"What a lot of higher education is doing is selling a trade education that is part of an old economy," he added. The new economy, he says, demands creativity. 
Other scholars have a different concern: that the narrow focus on the commercial is obscuring other, more pressing issues. From California to Maine, from elite universities to junior colleges, institutions of higher education are all too busy competing with one another, said Anthony W. Marx, the new president of Amherst College. All too often, the broader social mission of higher education is overlooked in the debate.
"Colleges differ in the economic diversity of their students, but that diversity is not incorporated into the rankings," he said. "It's a disincentive to create economic diversity. It tends to create a very self-reverential notion of higher education and to destroy efforts on broader social issues on which higher education should provide leadership."
For example, he said, it has been close to a century since colleges and universities have provided the necessary leadership to address the failures of public education, a failure that tends to increase economic and social inequality.
Critics like Mr. Bok and Mr. Kirp are pessimistic. The price tag on intellectual achievement is escalating, Mr. Bok said. Extensive financial demands are placed on colleges and universities to build facilities, lure top-notch faculty members, make scientific discoveries. 
The precarious balance between "the bottom line and the life of the mind," Mr. Krip said, has been disturbed. Although some colleges have indeed balanced academic concerns and those of the marketplace, others, he added, "have struck bargains only Faust could love."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 18, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Arts & Ideas on Sept. 6 with an article about quandaries faced by universities as they try to raise money and market themselves misidentified one building under construction at M.I.T. and misstated the source of financing for another. The picture showed the Alexander Dreyfoos Building, not the William H. Gates Building. The Gates building is being financed by the William H. Gates Foundation, not by Microsoft.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Credit cards with university logos are just one example of the intensifying alliance -- for mutual profit -- between corporate America and academia. (pg. B9); The William H. Gates Building, under construction at M.I.T., has been partly financed by Microsoft. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PATENTS (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); WRITERS (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (53%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%) LEE, FELICIA R 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



118 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW; 
At Ground Zero, Eyes on the Future

BYLINE:  By NED MARTEL; Ned Martel writes about television for The Financial Times.

 BODY:
So many hours of programming will revist the destruction in Lower Manhattan on its second anniversary next week that an hour spent considering the site's reconstruction might fortify any viewer depressed by all the elegies.
 The themes of death and revival will always be hovering around the World Trade Center site, as they are in the testimonials featured in "Rebuilding Ground Zero," a documentary co-produced by The New York Times and the Discovery Channel that will be shown tomorrow evening. The program takes as a given Daniel Libeskind's sweeping plans to evoke both themes, through architecture and through the ongoing process of conceiving an appropriate memorial, and it offers viewers an assuaging message that everything will work out down there, somehow. 
 In the documentary, widows, bereft firefighters and fatherless children speak up in public forums about how ground zero is the only cemetery available to their vanished loved ones. The World Trade Center landlord, Larry A. Silverstein, is the embodiment of the will to build bigger and better on a site that New York has for decades seen as a symbol of the city's renewal. 
Collaboration is a word often repeated in this program, whose makers seem hopeful about the power of the constituent designs to resolve grief and to create revenue with office and retail space. Luckily for the chief planner, Mr. Libeskind, he has a puckish spirit and his vitality becomes more evident in this documentary's televised tag-alongs than in previous journalistic profiles. Whether talking to developers or high-school students, this odd visionary peaks the language of a conceptual artist with a carnival barker's fluid delivery.
For the memorial, more than 5,000 design entries are shown stacked and barcoded. These proposals themselves had to be scanned for traces of explosives, anthrax or chemical menaces, and the documentary shows the unprecedented procedures that were part of this unprecedented undertaking. The design and engineering process for the original twin towers was surely tortured, but today's architects must now add elements that keep most street traffic away from foundations for fear of car-bomb attacks. And skyscraper blueprints now plan for the flow of rescue workers into any imperiled building in such a way that evacuees can make their way out safely and simultaneously.
The documentary makes clear that Mr. Libeskind's extremely important commission is made more complicated by the fact that eight million New Yorkers see themselves as his clients. In addition there are the rest of the world's citizens, who expect something grand and creative to replace what was grim and devastating. Philip Nobel, an architecture critic, states Mr. Libeskind's complex mission most simply: "Everyone is looking to the site to make them feel better."

REBUILDING GROUND ZERO: ENGINEERING THE FUTURE
Discovery, Sunday night at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.

Produced by Tom Kuntz and C. Scott Willis; Judith Starr Wolff and Geoff Gruetzmacher, editors; Stephanie Schwam, field producer; Ernie Topran, assistant editor; Deborah Amos, narrator. For New York Times Television: Ann Derry and Philip A. Boag, executive producers; Jane Bornemeier, editorial director; Lawrie Mifflin, director of television programming; William Abrams and Michael Oreskes, executives in charge. For Discovery Channel: Stephen Reverand, executive producer; Anna Zagas, production coordinator; W. Clark Bunting, executive in charge of production.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); BOMBINGS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); EXPLOSIVES (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%) TELEVISION; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: MARTEL, NED 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: REBUILDING GROUND ZERO: ENGINEERING THE FUTURE (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



119 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: No Free Ride For Toddlers 

BYLINE:  By William Crain; William Crain, a professor of psychology at City College, is author of "Reclaiming Childhood: Letting Children Be Children in Our Achievement-Oriented Society."

 BODY:
In "Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care," Drs. Benjamin Spock and Steven J. Parker wrote that "when a baby has learned to walk, it's time to let him out of his carriage or stroller." Numerous child-development experts, from Dr. Maria Montessori to Dr. T. Berry Brazelton, agree that the toddler age -- 1 to 3 years -- is a time when parents should encourage their children's urge to move around on their own and explore. 
 Today's parents, however, seem bent on keeping their children strapped in strollers long after they have taken their first steps. Every day I see stroller after stroller with children as old as 4 being pushed along, even in parks. Part shopping cart, part storage bin, these strollers are quite a sight: some models can be converted into car seats or pushed while a parent jogs, and many feature cushy seats, one-hand folding mechanisms, cup holders and snack trays. 
 Stroller sales in the United States have been rising over the last few years, despite the troubled economy and generally flat birth rates. Why? Unfortunately there is almost no formal research on the phenomenon, so I recently conducted a small exploratory study of my own, asking pediatricians to administer a brief questionnaire to 114 parents in the Upper West Side of Manhattan, suburban Westchester, the Bronx, Washington, suburban Los Angeles and St. Louis.
Overall, 95 percent of the parents reported using strollers for babies under age 1; 94 percent said they used strollers for 1- or 2-year-olds; 75 percent said they used them for 3-year-olds; and 39 percent said they used strollers for 4-year-olds.
Convenience and safety were the common explanations. One parent of a 3-year-old said: "I use the stroller when I'm running errands. I don't have time for him to walk around." Several parents of 3- and 4-year-olds said they used the strollers to cover long distances. Some parents with more than one child said it was easier to use a double stroller than to supervise one child walking while wheeling the other.
As a father (and grandfather), I understand the appeal of strollers as a safety precaution, particularly in big cities. But keeping children in strollers too long can suppress their growing sense of freedom and curiosity, fostering a dispirited sense of compliance that may plague them for years. (Moreover, strollers themselves can be dangerous; emergency rooms in the United States report nearly 13,000 stroller-related injuries a year.) 
Toddlerhood is a time when the urges toward independent movement and exploration emerge with tremendous force. Toddlers want to be constantly on the move, seeing what they can find. They want to march along the sidewalk or across the grass. If they spot something interesting, like a leaf, insect or puddle of water, they want to stop and examine it and venture off again. During their excursions, toddlers often stumble and fall, but they bounce back up and keep moving. There's too much to investigate to worry about minor pains. The toddler is a courageous explorer. 
As their agility increases at ages 3 and 4, children love to run, jump, hop and dance. Going down the sidewalk is a great adventure, and they sometimes sing as they go. Free movement outdoors stimulates their growing imaginations. 
Parents should try to encourage these important moments in their child's development as much as possible -- and they can, by maintaining an unobtrusive presence. When, for example, a toddler marches along the sidewalk or the grass, parents can follow the child's pace, stopping with the child to examine things. The parent can stay close enough to intervene if some danger should arise but remain sufficiently in the background to allow the child to explore the world on her own. 
Sometimes, of course, parents must take active control, as when they must cope with two children at once or take a child's hand to cross a street. But on many occasions it's sufficient to maintain a quiet, watchful presence, giving the child a chance to move about and make discoveries. This approach, of course, requires patience -- but the rewards will be well worth the effort.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (91%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); PARENTS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (60%) Children and Youth ; Baby Carriages, Strollers and Carriers

PERSON: William (Prof) Crain

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



120 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Liberian Ex-Leader Stole $3 Million as He Left, U.N. Aide Says 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

DATELINE: MONROVIA, Liberia, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Charles G. Taylor, who was forced out as president of Liberia on Aug. 11 and flew to exile in Nigeria, took with him $3 million donated for disarming and demobilizing thousands of armed combatants, a senior United Nations official said today.
 The sum is roughly equal to six months of current government revenues in Liberia, by any measure one of the poorest nations on earth. 
 The senior United Nations official here, Jacques P. Klein, the special representative of Secretary General Kofi Annan, described the theft and said the donor was an Asian nation. Other government officials said it was Taiwan. 
Taiwan is the only Asian country with both an embassy in Monrovia and close ties to the former Taylor administration. Taiwanese officials could not be reached for comment here, nor could Mr. Taylor. 
Mr. Klein sent this message to a radio audience today: "I would say to the belligerents out there who may be listening to us, 'It's your money, guys.' " 
The administration of Mr. Taylor was known for suave conduct in public and brutal behavior in private. Now the extent of his stealing is becoming clear.
In an interview, Mr. Klein said senior members of the Taylor administration were now seeking bribes from European Union officials who are trying to import desperately needed fuel to run electric generators. Monrovia has had no functioning power system for almost a decade, the consequence of 14 years of fighting.
Mr. Klein said he would go to New York on Saturday and ask the United Nations Security Council for a mandate to send 15,000 peacekeepers to Liberia for at least a year. A Council vote is expected the week of Sept. 15. There is currently a force of 3,000 West African peacekeepers, mainly Nigerians, in Liberia.
The first of the new peacekeepers could be here in October, with the goal of isolating and disarming the warring factions. The factions are not making war on each other now, but they are terrorizing civilians, driving them from their villages.
Mr. Klein and American officials here said any future American military role in Liberia might be confined to a small group of trainers, either soldiers or government contractors, sent to try to shape up the remnants of the Liberian Army. A small contingent of Marines stationed here since Aug. 15 is to leave on Oct. 1, two weeks before a new transitional government takes power.
"The United States, even if it cannot make the commitment itself, should encourage other countries to stay for the long term, to help us out," said Mr. Klein, a retired United States Air Force major general.
The question of money is crucial in Monrovia. No one knows who will put up the hundreds of millions of dollars needed to rebuild the nation.
The capital has been all but destroyed, as have hundreds of Liberian villages, by the civil war that Mr. Taylor started in 1989 as he fought his way to power and the presidency in 1997. Rebel forces began to attack Mr. Taylor's government in 1999; this summer they laid siege to Monrovia for 10 weeks.
"We need money desperately," said Mr. Klein, who hopes to convene international donors in Paris this fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); DISARMAMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARMIES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); ETHICS (67%); BRIBERY (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); AIR FORCES (62%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Foreign Aid; Ethics; Bribery; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%) United Nations; European Union; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: Tim Weiner; Jacques P Klein; Charles G Taylor

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBERIA (98%); NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%) Liberia; Nigeria; Taiwan; Liberia

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



121 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: A Way but No Will When It Comes To Foster Care 

BYLINE:  By Theresa Cameron; Theresa Cameron, associate professor of urban planning at Arizona State University, is author of "Foster Care Odyssey: A Black Girl's Story."

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Recent revelations of foster care abuses in New Jersey and Florida have, once again, called attention to the state of foster care in this country. As someone who grew up in foster care more than 30 years ago, I am not surprised by the continued problems. Despite improvements, there is still a long way to go. 
 My own story began in 1954, when I was abandoned at birth in an upstate New York hospital at a time when race as well as religion dictated where children could be placed. Because there were few black Catholic families around Buffalo, finding a place for an infant like me was a challenge. I remember at least 11 different foster homes. Some were O.K.; others were not. Caseworkers rarely stayed at the agency for long. Their visits with me were supposed to be regular and private. Instead, they were infrequent and conducted with the foster mothers present. 
 I struggled with a disorder later known as dyslexia and received no support from poorly trained foster families. By the time I was legally freed for adoption, at age 10, I was labeled hard to place. When I was a teenager, I ran away. No one from the agency looked for me. (I would have been easy to find; I had moved in with a high school friend and her family.)
For more than 19 years the State of New York provided a modicum of care for my basic needs, like food, shelter and clothing. It could not, however, erase the psychological trauma that ripped apart my childhood and that remains with me even as I approach 50. Yet I consider myself one of the fortunate ones. With the help of a few friends and teachers, I went on to earn a doctorate from an Ivy League university and have had a successful academic career.
Unlike many other long-term foster children, I did not end up in prison, on public assistance or in a mental institution. In the decades since I left the system, some progress has been made. Children's safety now precedes family reunification. Congress passed an amendment to the Child Welfare Act to sever parental ties when there is no chance for reunification -- a law that could have helped me find a new home. And the 20,000 foster children who "age out" of the states' system every year now qualify for health, education and housing from the government until they are 21 years old.
There is also no shortage of compassionate, dedicated people who work tirelessly defending foster children. Bridges to Independence, a private program in Los Angeles, for example, offers housing and other vital services to former foster teenagers.
But these programs and other new measures have not kept pace with the shortcomings in the system, or the growing demands of the more than half a million children in foster care. Several reasons underlie the seemingly intractable problems. For one, caseworkers are usually not social workers with master's degrees in human behavior. Most states require only a bachelor's degree in any field. The work is extremely stressful, often unsafe, and low paying -- yet workers are expected to handle complex family issues and manage dangerously high caseloads. 
Caring for psychologically damaged children who come from violent homes is also difficult and stressful. That, plus low reimbursement rates, has drastically reduced the supply of foster parents. There are only 142,000 foster families in the country, but nearly 542,000 foster children.
Foster care cannot be fixed without additional federal financing. The states, grappling with the worst budget shortfalls in years, simply cannot protect every child in the system. Reimbursement rates for foster parents should at least keep pace with inflation. Foster parents should be treated as professionals and receive paid vacation each year, just like other American workers.
To attract and retain qualified caseworkers and supervisors, employees should receive continuous training, classes in early childhood development and regular salary increases. Caseworkers who falsify records to cover shoddy work and supervisors who look the other way should be held accountable. Such measures could help prevent the deaths of children like Faheem Williams, the 7-year-old whose body was found in the basement of a relative's house in Newark earlier this year. The New Jersey agency had received reports that Faheem and his brothers were being abused, but it had closed the case anyway, after what caseworkers later called "drive by" visits. 
To bolster the political will needed for change, politicians and policy makers must pay attention to the mounting problems faced by child protective services so financing requests are not shelved in favor of tax cuts. 
How long will we continue to inflict emotional damage on foster children by subjecting them to multiple placements in unsafe homes? How can we expect 18-year-olds who age out of the system to become productive members of society if all they have is the clothes on their backs? Foster care can be saved, but only if we provide it with the adequate resources to remedy the problems and protect children. Until then, future professors, writers, scholars and artists will inevitably be left behind.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Wesley Bedrosian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RELIGION (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (76%); CHILD WELFARE (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); DYSLEXIA (68%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (68%); BUDGETS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%) Foster Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Theresa (Prof) Cameron

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



122 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Wall St. Shaken by U.S. Report of Job Losses in August

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
A disappointing jobs report rattled Wall Street yesterday, ending a seven-day advance for the Nasdaq composite index and a five-day rise of more than 250 points for the Dow Jones industrial average.
 "You have to keep in mind we have had a significant run-up this week," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company, who said higher-than-expected job cuts gave investors reason to lock in profits. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 84.56 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 9,503.34. The loss followed a five-day advance of 254 points that carried the Dow to its highest level since June 18, 2002. 
The Nasdaq dropped 10.73 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,858.24, after a seven-day gain of 104 points that had taken it to its highest closing level since March 19, 2002, when it stood at 1,880.87.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.58 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,021.39, after an eight-day gain of nearly 35 points. Thursday's close was the highest level since June 18, 2002.
Despite yesterday's sell-off, the market's major gauges ended the week higher. The Dow rose 0.9 percent in its fifth consecutive winning week, an accomplishment last seen at the end of November.
The Nasdaq ended the week up 2.6 percent; the S.& P., up 1.3 percent.
This last week's rallies were fueled by strong economic data, which on Thursday included big gains in factory orders and worker productivity.
But yesterday, the Labor Department reported that while the unemployment rate slipped to 6.1 percent in August, companies cut payrolls by 93,000. The report was weaker than expected and delivered mixed signals about the nation's overall economic health. Wall Street was expecting jobs to increase 20,000 to 25,000, Mr. Hogan said.
"We are concerned about the jobs- creation part of the economy," Mr. Hogan said.
While August was the seventh consecutive month of cuts in payrolls, the overall seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell from 6.2 percent of the labor force, as reflected by a broader survey of households.
And two investment banks, J. P. Morgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, raised their third-quarter economic growth expectations -- to annualized rates of 5.5 percent and 5 percent, respectively.
Still, it was time for the market to pull back yesterday, analysts said.
"The markets are overbought, extended," said A. C. Moore, chief investment strategist for Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif. "I think investors and traders, particularly traders, are looking for a spot to raise some cash."
A look at some of yesterday's losers on Wall Street indicates that investors were indeed locking in recent gains. Procter & Gamble fell 45 cents, to $90.98, having climbed $2.63 on Thursday when it said its third-quarter earnings would beat analysts' expectations.
Cisco Systems declined 17 cents, to $20.42, having gained 35 cents on Thursday when it was upgraded by Goldman Sachs.
Downgradings by brokerage firms also contributed to the market's decline.
Wal-Mart Stores fell $1.19, to $58.89, after Banc of America Securities cut its rating to neutral from buy.
Finish Line, the retailer of athletic shoes and sporting goods, dropped $1.85, to $25.30, after Merrill Lynch downgraded it to neutral from buy.
Among yesterday's gainers, Intel rose 11 cents, to $28.71, after raising the low end of its third-quarter revenue projection and saying gross margins would meet the high end of its estimates.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Surge
By Reuters
Treasury prices leapt yesterday after unexpectedly weak job figures convinced market skeptics that official interest rates would not be rising for a long time to come.
 Federal Reserve officials had been arguing all week that slack in labor markets and excess capacity in industry meant inflation and interest rates could stay low even as the economy accelerates.
 The 10-year Treasury note gained 17/32, to a price of 99 6/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.35 percent from 4.51 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond jumped 1 24/32, to 102 22/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.2 percent from 5.31 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



123 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Little but Language in Common; 
Mexicans and Puerto Ricans Quarrel in East Harlem

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
In Spanish, "No me gusta" means "I don't like." If you are Mexican or Puerto Rican, the phrase is the same.
 "I don't like the Mexicans," said George Ortiz, 52, who was born in Puerto Rico. "They think they can live in the neighborhood and not obey the laws." 
 "I don't like the Puerto Ricans," said Javier Morales, 31, who moved north recently from Mexico. "They forgot where they came from after they started living in New York."
They call East Harlem El Barrio -- the neighborhood -- but it is not so neighborly these days. In the last 10 years, Mexican immigrants have been arriving in a huge influx to the crowded streets of what has long been a Puerto Rican enclave. While the two groups share a language, a common tongue does not ensure a common bond. As far as ethnic rivalries go, the friction between the Mexicans and the Puerto Ricans of El Barrio is hardly open war, but it can be felt in the angry looks, muttered slurs and numerous complaints that are heard on East 116th Street, the neighborhood's main road.
The Puerto Ricans accuse the Mexicans of stealing jobs and cheating the tax man, and staying in the city as illegal immigrants. The Mexicans, in turn, accuse the Puerto Ricans of crowding them out of apartments, businesses and parks. 
The two groups are in a classic immigrant struggle over bragging rights, real estate and money. It seems they will even grumble about a sports field. Last week, for instance, Mr. Ortiz, a building superintendent, was playing softball with friends on a baseball diamond in Thomas Jefferson Park, near the East River. The field was old, sad, dirty, filled with weeds. 
Meanwhile, not a hundred yards away, Mr. Morales, who works for a construction firm, was playing soccer in the same park with his friends. The soccer field was brand new, clean and well maintained.
While some may see the discrepancy between the fields as a fluke, a matter of construction schedules, or even evidence that city money is tight in trying budgetary times, others see it as an indication that the neighborhood has changed. 
"They spent all that money fixing up the soccer field, and Puerto Ricans don't even play soccer," Mr. Ortiz said. "That field was built for all the Mexicans in town."
There are now about 200,000 Mexicans in New York City, according to the 2000 census, making them the city's third-largest Hispanic group after Puerto Ricans and Dominicans. The Mexican population has nearly tripled in size since the early 1980's. Most have come from the Mixteca region of Mexico, which includes the states of Puebla, Guerrero and Oaxaca. They were pushed from home by natural disasters and financial crises and drawn to New York City by the opportunity for work.
At the same time, the city's Puerto Rican population, nearly 800,000, according to the last census, has declined by more than 10 percent since 1990.
The man responsible for managing this change is Philip Reed, the city councilman for District 8, which covers much of eastern Harlem. 
On a Tuesday, Mr. Reed might take a call from a Mexican vendor complaining he was chased off the streets by a Puerto Rican shopkeeper. On a Wednesday, he might take another call from an angry Puerto Rican who has heard a rumor that 116th Street -- also known as Luis Munoz Marin Boulevard, for Puerto Rico's first elected governor -- was going to be changed to a Mexican politician's name.
"It's a thicket," Mr. Reed explained.
The thicket is perhaps thorniest on 116th Street between Second and Third Avenues, where Mexican tacquerias now stand side by side with Puerto Rican cuchifrito shops. Walking the block one hears salsa and merengue intermixed with mariachi. Puerto Rican guayaberas are sold next door to Mexican futbol jerseys. On the corner, a travel agency advertises trips to San Juan, P.R. Down the block, another promotes Mexican excursions to Cancun.
So far, the Mexicans have not been able to transform their growing numbers into political clout, although they are slowly waking to the notion that to solidify their status, they will need Mexican politicians and police officers.
"Right now, they're not involved in the formal structure of the city in any way," said George Reagan, director of programs for Asociacion Tepeyac de New York, which works with the Mexican population. "They want to have political power. They want to have a real say in their schools. But they're just getting here. It takes time."
Still, the Mexicans may not have time. El Barrio is gentrifying rapidly as wealthy whites and Asians are moving in, attracted by inexpensive rents. While many Puerto Ricans with family roots in the neighborhood have started moving back, the Mexicans -- often illegal, poor and unaware of tenant rights -- are starting to be shut out, even as they arrive.
"They're being priced out as gentrification occurs," Mr. Reagan said. "Because so many are undocumented and because they just don't understand the system that exists, it's very easy for a landlord to simply say, 'Get out.' "
Complicating matters even more is a schism that has developed between Mexicans who are established in the neighborhood and those who have only recently arrived.
This summer, for example, tensions worsened when several Mexican restaurants complained to the police about a group of Mexican women selling tacos and empanadas on the sidewalks in front of their doors. The women, they said, were stealing customers. The women, in turn, have said that selling street food is the only way they can survive.
"Many of the businesses allow these women to use a piece of their property," said Flor Bermudez, a staff lawyer for Esperanza del Barrio, which is representing the vendors in their dealings with the courts.
"Many of the more established Mexican businesses started off as street vendors. So I think they have a certain amount of sympathy for what they're going through."
Sympathy, perhaps, say the restaurateurs. But patience, no.
"I can understand these women need to make a living," one proprietor said. "But I pay taxes. They don't pay taxes. I'm here legally, and they are not."
He asked that his name be withheld, wanting to avoid upsetting fellow immigrants from home. "It's hard enough to be here with the problems we already have, mainly from Puerto Ricans," he said. "We don't need more from picking on our own."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a music store's display, the flag of Puerto Rico can be seen on drums.; Mexican stores along East 116th Street. Until recently, East Harlem was an area overwhelmingly Puerto Rican in population. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1); A new soccer field in Thomas Jefferson Park could be a signal of change in East Harlem, where a nearby baseball diamond is filled with weeds. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); BASEBALL (86%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (86%); SOCCER (85%); REFUGEES (75%); REAL ESTATE (72%); BUDGETS (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); SOFTBALL (64%); CENSUS (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Hispanic-Americans; Mexican-Americans; Puerto Ricans; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Alan Feuer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) PUERTO RICO (96%); MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; East Harlem (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



124 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
93,000 Jobs Lost in August; Jobless Rate Falls to 6.1%
The Labor Department announced that 93,000 jobs were lost in August, countering expectations that employment would begin to expand and extending to 22 months an economic recovery that has failed to halt job losses.
 The unemployment rate declined to 6.1 percent from 6.2 percent in July, but economists said that was apparently because of a surge in the number of people who, having lost jobs, listed themselves as self-employed rather than unemployed. Page A1. 

Senate Panel Starts Tenet Inquiry
The Senate Finance Committee has opened an investigation into allegations of wrongdoing at Tenet Healthcare and requested that the company produce a number of documents for the inquiry. C3.

Energy Talks Begin in Congress
Congressional negotiations on a broad new energy policy began with Republican leaders serving notice that they intended to write much of the proposal to avoid a repetition of the failed talks last year. A9.

G.O.P. Governor Seeks Tax Rise
Bob Riley, the conservative Republican governor of Alabama and a former congressman, is trying to convince Alabama voters to embrace a public referendum Tuesday that calls for $1.2 billion in new taxes. A1.

Elan Avoids a Run on Its Debt
The troubled Irish drug maker Elan filed its 2002 annual report with the Securities and Exchange Commission, lifting the threat of a run on its $2 billion debt, which would have bankrupted the company. C2.

Wall Street Shaken by Job Losses
A disappointing jobs report rattled Wall Street. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 84.56 points, to 9,503.34. The Nasdaq dropped 10.73 points, to 1,858.24, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.58 points, to 1,021.39. C4.

Actions Taken in Tax Evasion Cases
The son of Stanley S. Tollman, the fugitive New York hotel and travel executive, pleaded guilty in Manhattan to federal tax evasion charges. In a separate tax prosecution, the authorities in California arrested George H. Jesson, left, and his wife, Trina, on tax evasion charges. The couple have boasted that they did not pay taxes nor withhold them from their workers' paychecks because they said no law required them to do so. C3.

Champion Enterprises Cutting Jobs
Champion Enterprises said that it was cutting 1,000 jobs and closing 4 plants and 35 retail sales centers because of a continuing slump in demand for manufactured homes. C4.

Finance Ministers Reject Request
Asia-Pacific finance ministers rejected a call by the United States Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, to let markets decide the value of currencies, saying only that ending government controls would not promote economic growth in all cases. C2.

Mazda Set to Buy Back RX-8 Cars
Mazda is offering to buy back 2004-model RX-8 sports cars from customers disappointed that the vehicles have as much as 4.8 percent less engine power than Mazda advertised. C2.

Trial Date Set for Ex-Enron Official
A federal judge ruled that Enron's former chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow, will be tried April 20 on nearly 100 charges, separately from two co-defendants. C4.

Caterpillar Predicts Strong Growth
Caterpillar predicts the construction industry will grow by 30 percent in the next decade as more roads and houses are built to keep pace with an expanding world population. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,503.34 down 84.56Nasdaq composite -- 1,858.24 down 10.7310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.35% down 0.16The euro -- $1.1109 up 0.0186The dollar -- 116.83 yen up 0.06 Graph tracks unemployment (seasonally adjusted) from 2002 through August 2003.(August: 6.1%) (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (67%); TAX INCREASES (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); RETAIL SALES (50%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



125 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Despite Hiring Freeze, Pataki Protects Personal Appointees 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
On paper, Gov. George E. Pataki has shrunk the payroll of the Executive Chamber significantly this year, paring 30 salaried employees and cutting 10 part-time interns. But like most things in Albany, what appears on paper is not the whole story. 
 Nearly two years ago, the governor announced a hiring freeze to confront the state's intractable budget woes, and since then the Department of Motor Vehicles, the Health Department and other state agencies have lost more than 10,000 employees, or 5.3 percent of the work force, through attrition, budget officials say. 
 The requirement that all new hiring be approved by the budget director was a central part of the state's effort to close a $11.5 billion budget shortfall this year. 
Yet even as Mr. Pataki did his part this year to shrink the size of state government, reducing the Executive Chamber by 17 percent, he did it in ways that managed to protect his personal appointees, payroll records show. He also continued hiring to fill vacancies, in several cases rewarding campaign workers or political allies. 
In addition, the governor's budget does not account for 40 people who work for the Executive Chamber but are on the payrolls of other state agencies, a separate staff that has not shrunk in the last two years and has, in fact, been replenished with new hires, budget officials say. Those employees, like those on his payroll, work for him in Albany and Manhattan, performing tasks including legal work, travel arrangements and public relations. When those people are accounted for, the staff reduction this year is closer to 14 percent.
It is not unusual for a governor to find creative ways to hold onto his staff, particularly those who have worked closely with him in a campaign. Governors going back at least to Nelson A. Rockefeller have used similar practices to keep the bottom line of the Executive Chamber down while finding ways to make strategic hires.
A close analysis of payroll and employment records obtained from the state comptroller's office shows that Mr. Pataki is no exception. While cutting his staff, he has found berths for dozens of close aides in other state agencies, according to the state records. The transferred employees were almost always paid the same or a higher salary. 
The governor has also continued to hire, despite the freeze, replacing many of the 39 aides who retired or left the government for the private sector over the last two years. This year, for instance, he hired 25 people, 10 of them to fill the positions paid out of other state agencies' budgets.
Lisa Dewald Stoll, the governor's communications director, said the hiring of new people to fill vacant positions in the Executive Chamber was justified because each job filled was deemed a vital position. The governor restructured the office earlier this year, consolidated many positions and has since lived up to his commitment in his budget address to prune his staff, she said.
"We can't do these jobs without having people work here," she said. "To the extent we could, we restructured and downsized. And we did bring people on as others left and filled the roles they played."
The records show that some came with political connections. Among those hired in 2002 by Mr. Pataki were the son of a Republican state senator for a temporary position and the relatives of two G.O.P. lawmakers for permanent spots, payroll records show.
He also hired Walter Breakell, a Republican political operative from New York City who worked on the Pataki campaign last year.
Mr. Breakell was given a $120,000-a-year post in the Executive Chamber in January. But he is being paid through a welfare agency, budget officials say. His title of director of strategic research and analysis makes him the top researcher for the governor's staff, the same role he played in the campaign, Pataki aides said. There is no indication that he performs any duties for the welfare agency, the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance. 
Mr. Breakell did not return a telephone call for comment.
The governor also gave Douglas Blais, another political research specialist in his campaign, an $87,500-a-year job in his office, paid for from the budget of the Empire State Development Corporation. 
Mr. Blais, a Republican from Virginia who once worked for former Gov. George F. Allen, who is now a United States senator, was given the title of assistant to the governor for New York City affairs, working on issues related to the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan, Ms. Stoll said.
The governor first announced restrictions on hiring in the wake of the terrorist attacks in September 2001, declaring a freeze that October. He has reiterated that stance several times since.
However, the payroll records show he waited until after the 2002 election to begin cutting his own chamber's work force. Indeed, his office's payroll grew in early 2002, reaching 178 salaried employees and 32 interns in April, with a cost of $11.4 million.
Once the voters returned him to office, however, the payroll dropped last January to the same level it had been before the hiring freeze, about $10.6 million, with 170 salaried employees, the payroll records show.
The governor has cut an additional 30 salaried positions from his office since then, most of them secretaries and other support staff members. He also pared the number of student interns to 16, from 26. By Sept. 1, the payroll had come down to $8.8 million. But the payroll records also show a big part of the reduction can be explained by the transfer of dozens of people to other agencies.
In total, at least 34 people, the vast majority the governor's appointees, have been transferred from the Executive Chamber to jobs elsewhere in state government since the hiring freeze took effect in October 2001. 
Fourteen landed in better-paying jobs than the ones they left behind and only two took a pay cut, according to the comptroller's records. Most of the people who were shifted into other departments filled vacant positions despite the hiring moratorium. The administration also created new positions for at least five of them, the governor's budget office said.
Another reason for the drop in the Executive Chamber staff is that last October, Mr. Pataki created a new agency, the Office of Public Security, and transferred several highly paid officials whom he hired after the terrorist attacks into it, thus cutting the chamber's payroll down by more than $500,000.
Most hirings over the last 18 months were made to replace the exodus of senior, well-paid aides who have left for lucrative positions in law and public relations firms, budget officials say. Among them were the governor's chief of staff, Bradford J. Race; his communications director, Michael McKeon; the director of appointments, Thomas Doherty; and the chief counsel, James McGuire.
The governor has filled 15 positions on his official payroll since January, several with people from his campaign and the state Republican Party. One was Ms. Stoll, a 31-year-old professional strategist with a gift for making political commercials, who was hired to replace Mr. McKeon to run the governor's press office, at a $155,000 salary. 
Patrick H. McCarthy, the executive director of the state Republican Party, was hired earlier this year as a $135,000-a-year appointments officer, records show.
Ten more people were hired to work for the governor, but were placed on other agency's payrolls, filling vacancies. They include Todd Alhart, a former spokesman for the Republican State Committee, who was hired as a press officer in the governor's office, even though the budget division pays his $72,000-a-year salary.
The governor has used the 40 positions on loan from other agencies, under an arrangement that has been in place for decades, to shift people off his payroll but keep them working for him. The five of the people who in the last two years were cut from the Executive Chamber payroll in reality simply had their salaries switched to other agencies, saving the governor's office $322,000 on paper.
Mark Kissinger, for instance, a longtime Republican political appointee with expertise in social services, had been employed since 1999 as "program associate" in the governor's office, making $93,926, payroll and budget division records show. On Feb. 13, however, the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance began paying him a $103,926 salary under the title of director of social service programs. It was a paper transaction, however, as he remains on the governor's staff.
The records also show Mr. Pataki has not filled at least two senior positions after people left. There has been no new director of the women's division since the previous one, Elaine Conway, retired in March. Nor did Mr. Pataki replace Richard D. Frazier, a former assistant to his chief of staff, when he left earlier this year to take a $102,000 job with the Public Service Commission.
Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for the budget division, pointed out that Mr. Pataki had reduced the overall size of the Executive Chamber since he took office in 1995. "Every way you look at it, the chamber has come down," Mr. Quinn said.
But advocates for open government said the practice of using agency positions to augment the governor's staff was troubling.
"This administration, like many of its predecessors, believes that to the victor go the spoils," said Blair Horner of the New York Public Interest Research Group. "Too many agency slots are used to reward political staffers instead of using those salary lines to reward professional, competent, independent civil servants."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. B1) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Salaries in Pataki's Executive Chamber"Besides Gov. George E. Pataki, whose $179,000 salary is established by the State Legislature, the following people who work for the Executive Chamber are paid more than $100,000 a year: NAME: John P. CahillPOSITION: Secretary to the governorSALARY: $165,253 NAME: James G. NatoliPOSITION: Dir. of disaster prep. and responseSALARY: 161,949 NAME: Chauncey G. ParkerPOSITION: Director of criminal justiceSALARY: 161,949 NAME: William F. HowardPOSITION: Deputy director of state operationsSALARY: 155,000 NAME: Jeffrey P. LovellPOSITION: Deputy secretary to the governorSALARY: 155,000 NAME: Richard M. PlatkinPOSITION: Counsel to the governorSALARY: 155,000 NAME: Lisa D. Stoll+POSITION: Director of communicationsSALARY: 155,000 NAME: Adam Barsky+POSITION: Deputy secretary to the governorSALARY: 148,235 NAME: Robert R. HinckleyPOSITION: Deputy director of state operationsSALARY: 148,235 NAME: Walter B. DebowPOSITION: First asst. counsel to the governorSALARY: 135,000 NAME: Patrick H. McCarthy+POSITION: Appointments officerSALARY: 135,000 NAME: John C. WolfePOSITION: Governors speechwriterSALARY: 128,858 NAME: Stephen Kagann*POSITION: Chief economist to the governorSALARY: 125,000 NAME: James A. MazzarellaPOSITION: Dir., N.Y. State Office of Federal AffairsSALARY: 123,000 NAME: Walter Breakell*POSITION: Dir. of strategic research and analysisSALARY: 120,000 NAME: Eileen M. Long ChelalesPOSITION: Deputy secretary to the governorSALARY: 120,000 NAME: Charles G. FoxPOSITION: Deputy secretary to the governorSALARY: 120,000 NAME: Christopher McCarthy*POSITION: Senior assistant counselSALARY: 117,218 NAME: Christopher O'Brien*POSITION: Senior assistant counselSALARY: 117,218 NAME: James H. HardingPOSITION: Executive assistant to the governorSALARY: 113,389 NAME: William Charles*POSITION: Dep. sec. to the gov. for educationSALARY: 110,000 NAME: Thomas J. MadisonPOSITION: Deputy dir. of scheduling for the gov.SALARY: 110,000 NAME: Joseph E. ConwayPOSITION: Press officerSALARY: 109,710 NAME: David Wollner*POSITION: Director of health programsSALARY: 106,748 NAME: Annie O'Sullivan*POSITION: First assistant to the governorSALARY: 105,411 NAME: Mary C. FullingtonPOSITION: Press assistantSALARY: 105,000 NAME: Roger D. McDonough+POSITION: Assistant counsel to the governorSALARY: 105,000 NAME: Mark Kissinger*POSITION: Director of social service programsSALARY: 103,926 NAME: Monica BellPOSITION: Executive assistant to the governorSALARY: 103,215 NAME: Evelyn K. RollinsPOSITION: Deputy director, Womens DivisionSALARY: 100,168 *Executive Chamber employees whose salaries are paid by other state agencies.+Employees hired since January 1, 2003. (Sources by State payroll records; Office of the N.Y. State Comptroller)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); APPROVALS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%) Wages and Salaries; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Government Employees; Patronage

PERSON: James C Jr Mckinley; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



126 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Forging Links to Natural Gas From Abroad 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: QUINTANA ISLAND, Tex. 

 BODY:
The United States needs natural gas. Developing countries many thousands of miles away are willing to supply it. This sleepy beachfront town and other communities along the Gulf of Mexico are likely to become the links between producers and consumers.
 Altogether, energy companies are planning to spend more than $100 billion in the next decade to bring gas from developing countries to rich nations, according to PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm. The only way to do it is to supercool the gas so that it condenses into a liquid, which is then compact enough to load onto tankers and send across oceans. 
 For years, this process was too costly to compete with relatively cheap domestic supplies of natural gas and with imports from Canada. But those supplies are tightening just as the demand for clean-burning gas is soaring. That has led to the most severe gas shortage in the last 25 years and caused domestic gas prices to double this year. 
The gap between domestic supply and total demand is forecast to grow significantly over the next 20 years. That has made liquefied natural gas competitive, if only companies can find places that are willing to accept having L.N.G. terminals built nearby. "We've entered the gas age, and there's no turning back if we want a firm supply of a strategically crucial fuel," said Michael S. Smith, an investor who controls Freeport LNG, a Houston company that plans to build a receiving terminal on Quintana Island.
Mr. Smith and his partners, Cheniere Energy and Contango Oil and Gas, both of Houston, expect to begin construction of the terminal early next year on this tiny island about 70 miles south of Houston. The $400 million operation will be able to receive ships full of liquefied natural gas, warming the gas and piping it to a nearby plant owned by the Dow Chemical Company.
Quintana Island's attraction lies not only in its proximity to a plant that uses natural gas as a raw material but also in its location near the center of the nation's energy industry. That, it is hoped, will make political resistance to such projects tepid compared with the safety, aesthetic and environmental concerns in places like Northern California and Massachusetts.
Despite such concerns and worries that large, potentially explosive gas terminals could become terrorist targets, energy companies are eager to import liquefied natural gas. It is a shift that could avoid gas shortages forecast for the future, but could also increase the nation's dependence on foreign energy supplies.
"Just as we're debating the need to diversify our oil supplies, we're faced with an array of challenges to secure reliable and politically stable sources of gas," said David G. Victor, director of the Program on Energy and Sustainable Development at Stanford University.
More than a dozen projects like the one here are seeking approval from regulators in North America, including several on the Gulf Coast and in the northern Mexican state of Baja California.
The United States is already the world's largest natural gas producer, and domestic production is expected to increase to 28.5 trillion cubic feet in 2020 from 19.1 trillion cubic feet in 2000, according to the Energy Information Administration. Still, demand is expected to far outstrip production, growing to 33.8 trillion cubic feet by 2020 from 22.8 trillion cubic feet in 2000.
The gas to close that gap -- more than five trillion cubic feet, a 40 percent increase in 20 years -- will have to come largely from outside the United States.
Almost all of America's imported natural gas currently comes by pipeline from Canada. But a growing market for gas within Canada and rapidly depleting Canadian wells are expected to weaken that country's ability to increase exports. Mexico, though believed to have large untapped gas reserves, is mired in nationalist debate over making it easier for foreign financiers and companies to explore for gas.
As a result, Mexico, a power in crude oil, is a growing importer of natural gas -- and an attractive base for liquefied natural gas receiving terminals, which cost as much as $700 million to build. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development recently forecast that the percentage of North America's gas from imports would climb to 26 percent by 2030 from just 1 percent today.
Those imports will come mostly from developing nations like Equatorial Guinea, a former Spanish colony in West Africa where Marathon Oil of Houston plans to build an L.N.G. plant able to serve gas fields throughout the Gulf of Guinea.
Ambitious ventures are also under way in other West African countries, including Angola and Nigeria, where energy companies were recently burning gas escaping from oil drilling operations because there was no ready market for it. In the Middle East, small countries like Oman, a sultanate on the Strait of Hormuz, and Qatar, are emerging as important gas powers.
In South America, Trinidad and Tobago has become an early leader in exporting liquefied natural gas, although companies in Bolivia and Peru have had difficulties advancing efforts to export L.N.G. to California. Producers in Indonesia, Malaysia and Russia could step in to supply the West Coast, pushing the Andean countries to the margins of the business.
In some ways, the scramble for natural gas projects resembles the heady early days of the oil industry a century ago. Then, British, Dutch and American investors raced around the world to stake out interests in remote oil fields in the Middle East, Central Asia and the archipelagoes of the Java Sea.
Some regions are considered more promising than others. Industry executives point out that just three countries -- Iran, Qatar and Russia -- hold more than half of the world's natural gas reserves, inevitably focusing attention on the delicate interplay between politics and commerce in these places.
Russia, with the largest proven reserves, plans to start exporting liquefied natural gas in 2007 with deliveries to Japan. Iran, while off limits to American companies because of trade restrictions by the United States, has attracted Japanese, French, British, Indian and South Korean concerns interested in mounting gas ventures.
There are important differences, however, between past oil booms and the current interest in natural gas. For one thing, studies show the world will be swimming in natural gas supplies while oil reserves are expected to dwindle in the decades ahead. Just one area in Qatar, a monarchy near Saudi Arabia with fewer than a million people, is thought to have enough gas to supply the United States for 40 years, according to a study by Deutsche Bank.
The natural gas industry has to overcome several obstacles before evolving into a vibrant global market. Even with ample supplies there is no market for trading liquefied natural gas, as there is for crude oil. Instead, producers and customers sign long-term contracts, sometimes resulting in significant price differences from one year to the next or from one country to another.
One reason the natural gas market has remained fragmented is because the fuel is difficult and expensive to extract and transport. But these costs are declining, adding to the appeal of gas projects. Lord Browne, the chief executive of BP, said the cost of developing gas liquefaction plants had halved since the 1980's, while shipping costs had also fallen.
Shipbuilders are seeking to meet demand for tankers, with the global gas fleet expected to grow to 193 ships by 2006 from 136 in 2002, according to LNG One World, a gas- shipping information service operated by Drewry International of Britain and Nissho Iwai of Japan.
Natural gas is still not considered as crucial as oil for overall energy security since oil's main use is for transportation and there is no short-term alternative. Natural gas has a variety of important industrial uses, like serving as a raw material for fertilizer and generating electricity.
Still, the growth in demand for liquefied natural gas in the United States is expected to outstrip other parts of the world. It is likely to grow 35 percent in the next five years, compared with 20 percent in other North Atlantic countries and 12 percent worldwide, according to Deutsche Bank. Hence the rush to proceed with projects that supply liquefied natural gas to the United States.
"The world could be consuming more gas than oil by 2025," Philip Watts, the chairman of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, the large British-Dutch energy company, said in a recent address to industry executives in Tokyo. "We must be prepared for growing geopolitical turbulence and volatility in an increasingly interdependent world."
The United States has only five terminals capable of receiving L.N.G., including one in Puerto Rico. Almost 20 are on the drawing board, but opposition to the terminals has already prevented the start of work on several of them. Earlier this year, for instance, Shell and Bechtel Enterprises shelved a plan to build a terminal about 30 miles north of San Francisco because of stiff public opposition.
California remains perhaps the most difficult place in the country to gain approval for gas-receiving terminals. This has encouraged imaginative proposals like one last month from BHP Billiton, Australia's largest energy company, for a $600 million floating terminal 20 miles off the coast of Oxnard in the southern part of the state. It remains to be seen whether any of the California projects will be built.
An air of resignation hangs over even the critics of the plan to build the terminal on Quintana, which is scheduled to start operating by 2007. Officials from Freeport LNG have told residents that they expect to make more $1than million a year in tax payments to the city, a substantial sum for a community of 40 homes that is the smallest municipality in Texas.
At the Jetties, a restaurant on the island's edge overlooking the brown water of the Gulf of Mexico, the walls are plastered with warnings of the perceived dangers of receiving tankers full of potentially combustible gas from far-flung parts of the world. But the restaurant's employees seem to believe that the terminal will be built, inevitably changing the island's easygoing atmosphere.
"People come out here to drink beer on the beach and look at the birds and the gulf," said Dana Difatta, a cook at the restaurant. "Imagine what they'll think when they're staring at some huge vats holding natural gas. Will they be horrified or relieved?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Henry, the vice president of Freeport LNG, on the Quintana Island property where his company plans to construct a $400 million terminal to receive ships loaded with liquefied natural gas.; A Dow Chemical plant near homes on Quintana Island, Tex. A planned liquefied natural gas terminal may change the island's easygoing atmosphere, and some residents are concerned about possible dangers. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. C14) Chart: "A New Dependence"The rising use of natural gas is creating a growing need for imported gas from places that are far away and politically volatile. Graph tracks the projected gas shortfall from 2000 through 2025. Both consumption and production are tracked (quadrillion B.T.U.'s) LARGEST POTENTIAL SUPPLIERSProven natural gas reserves, in trillions of cubic feet Russia: 1,680Iran: 812Qatar: 509Saudi Arabia: 224United States: 196Algeria: 183Venezuela: 160Nigeria: 148Iraq: 124Indonesia: 110(pg. C1) Map of Texas highlighting Quintana Island: Quintana Island is on the Gulf of Mexico 70 miles south of Houston. (pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (69%); CHEMICAL PLANT SECURITY (67%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%); TERRORISM (50%) Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Factories and Industrial Plants ; Futures and Options Trading; Gas (Fuel); Liquefied Natural Gas

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (64%); CHENIERE ENERGY INC (55%); CONTANGO OIL & GAS CO (54%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (64%); DOW (NYSE) (64%); DOW (LSE) (64%); 4850 (TSE) (64%); LNG (NYSE MKT) (55%); MCF (NYSE MKT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (55%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Canada; Mexico; Africa; South America; Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



127 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: DEFYING FORECAST, JOB LOSSES MOUNT FOR A 22ND MONTH 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The Labor Department announced yesterday that 93,000 jobs were lost in August, countering expectations that employment would finally begin to expand. The economic recovery in the United States is now in its 22nd month, without reversing constant job losses.
 The unemployment rate declined to 6.1 percent from 6.2 percent in July, but economists said that was apparently because of a surge in the number of people who, having lost jobs, listed themselves as self-employed rather than unemployed. The Bush administration, however, cited the drop as a positive sign. 
 Job creation has emerged as a central issue in the early stages of the presidential campaign, and Democrats seized on the latest employment numbers as evidence for their view that the president's policies are ineffective. 
Mr. Bush, meanwhile, reiterated his Labor Day call for Congress to enact his agenda of economic initiatives, which include making his tax cuts permanent.
"Today's unemployment report shows we've got more to do," Mr. Bush said in a speech in Indianapolis. "And I'm not going to be satisfied until every American who's looking for a job can find a job."
At no time since the start of the most recent recession, in March 2001, have there been so many signals that the economy is finally beginning to grow strongly enough to create jobs. Many forecasters had thought the turnaround would come in July, and certainly in August. Instead, the 93,000 lost jobs -- nearly half of them in manufacturing -- was the largest decline in four months, and well above the 44,000 lost in July.
"If we don't see some job growth by Thanksgiving, then the spurt in economic activity that we are currently experiencing will fade," said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, "and we will be right back to where we were early this year, in the economic soup."
The meager recovery, which began in November 2001, has now achieved historical significance. Not since World War II has employment failed to grow for so long after the gross domestic product, which measures the total output of goods and services, began rising again. Just more than a million jobs have disappeared over the last 22 months, on top of the 1.78 million lost in the preceding eight-month recession. All told, the national payroll has shrunk by almost three million jobs since March 2001.
The great majority of the jobs were in manufacturing. Some economists say that because American employers -- particularly manufacturers -- are much more cautious about hiring than they were in the past, the economy may have to expand at a far greater pace to prompt companies to hire again on a sustained basis. 
The economic growth rate, as measured by the output of goods and services, more than doubled, to 3.1 percent, in the second quarter, from 1.4 percent in each of the two previous quarters. By past standards, that should have generated job growth. And now, in the third quarter, the growth rate has risen again, to more than 4 percent, most economists estimate. But still there has been no turnaround in employment. 
"We have been sitting on the bench waiting and waiting and waiting for some jobs to appear, and they still are nowhere in sight," Joel L. Naroff, a normally optimistic forecaster, advised subscribers to his newsletter.
Some of the president's Democratic challengers said that the turnaround would not come without a policy shift in Washington. For example, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina called for tax incentives to encourage manufacturers to keep production in the United States.
What surprises many economists is that the job-shedding has continued despite what they describe as an extraordinary level of economic stimulus. Low interest rates, tax cuts and rebates, a rise in military spending, mortgage refinancings, growing corporate profits, even a long-awaited improvement in business spending on new equipment and software have all contributed to the rise in the economic growth rate. 
But jobs are disappearing, and employers continue to resist adding hours for their existing workers. Economists warn that without payroll expansion and rising income from wages, sustaining the economic growth will be difficult once the stimulus weakens.
"If we go into next year without job growth, then the consumer's willingness to keep spending comes into question, and recovery is in danger of unwinding," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management. 
Seeking an explanation for the job drought, some economists call attention to the shifting of production overseas, particularly to China, and to the American economy's rapid gains in productivity. The productivity gains allow companies to maintain the same level of production with fewer workers. 
Both trends have proceeded at a stepped-up pace in recent months, so the economy, in response, may now have to expand at an annual rate of 5 percent or more simply to keep employment levels stable, said Albert M. Wojnilower, an economic consultant and Wall Street forecaster.
Elaine L. Chao, the labor secretary, called attention to the drop in the unemployment rate. "Today's fall in the unemployment rate is positive," she said. She also said that there was job growth in some corners of the economy last month, mainly in construction, which accounted for 19,000 new workers, but also in health services and at temporary help agencies. 
A rise in the employment of temps is normally a signal to economists that companies are expanding their staffs and will soon shift to permanent hires. Temporary workers jumped by 46,000 in May and 30,000 in June, but in July and August the pace slowed to 12,000 and 7,000.
Ms. Chao noted that the unemployment rate had dropped for two straight months, to 6.1 percent last month from 6.4 percent in June.
The Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics determines the unemployment rate through a monthly survey of 60,000 households. If respondents say they were unemployed in the week before the survey, they are asked if they are actively looking for work. 
Only those actively searching for a job are counted as unemployed. Those who say they would like a job but are too discouraged by the difficulties of finding one to search actively are no longer counted as either employed or unemployed. 
The number of discouraged workers rose by 33,000 last month, subtracting them from the jobless rolls. The count of discouraged workers has more than doubled in the last three years, to 503,000 in August from 203,000 in August 2000. In addition, the number of workers in the survey who described themselves as self-employed grew by 233,000 last month -- evidence to some economists that many had lost jobs and were masking their unemployment.
"Whenever you see a spike in self-employment in this kind of economy, you know that is involuntary entrepreneurship," said Jared Bernstein, a senior labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute.
The principal employment number comes from a separate survey, covering 160,000 businesses and government agencies and 400,000 work sites. From that survey, the bureau determines the actual number of jobs. Though the biggest loss in August was 44,000 jobs in manufacturing, employment also shrank in computer design and information technology and in government employment. The government job losses were mostly at the state and local level, reflecting widespread cutbacks to balance budgets.
The average hourly wage of production workers, about 80 percent of the 129.8 million people employed in August, rose 2 cents in August, to $15.45. In the last 12 months, this wage has risen 2.9 percent, keeping workers ahead of inflation.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in August"UNEMPLOYMENT BY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteJuly: 5.5%Aug: 5.4% BlackJuly: 11.1Aug: 10.9 Hispanic*July: 8.2Aug: 7.8 Men 20 and overJuly: 5.9Aug: 5.8 Women 20 and overJuly: 5.2Aug: 5.2 Teenagers (16-19)July: 18.4Aug: 16.6 OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalJuly: 9.1Aug: 8.9 Lost jobJuly: 5.0Aug: 4.9 Left jobJuly: 0.8Aug: 0.8 Returning to labor marketJuly: 2.5Aug: 2.5 New to labor marketJuly: 0.7Aug: 0.6 Graph tracks civilian unemployment from September 2002 through August 2003.(August: 6.1%) EMPLOYMENT BY TYPE OF WORK (millions) NonfarmJuly: 129.9Aug: 129.8 GoodsJuly: 22.0Aug: 22.0 ServicesJuly: 107.9Aug: 107.8 AgricultureJuly: 2.2Aug: 2.3 SHARE OF POPULATION Work forceJuly: 62.1%Aug: 62.1% Labor force (workers and unemployed)July: 66.2Aug: 66.2 All figures are seasonally adjusted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Revised because of change in classifications. Graph tracks employment from September 2002 through August 2003.Household survey: 137.6 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 129.8 million (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); TAX LAW (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); HISTORY (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Labor

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



128 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Suits on Silica Being Compared To Asbestos Cases 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
First asbestos, now silica. Lawyers who are veterans of the wave of asbestos litigation have begun to file more and more lawsuits contending that their clients are suffering from exposure to silica. But while the lawyers say they are zeroing in on another potentially lethal substance, their opponents counter that there is no medical crisis.
 A coalition of insurance companies is trying to draw attention to the potential costs of the silicosis lawsuits, which are dwarfed in number by the roughly 600,000 asbestos-related claims that have been filed. The insurers, along with manufacturers that have used silica -- mindful of the 60 or more companies that have filed for bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos litigation -- would like to see the courts deal summarily with the lawsuits before they become a problem as broad as asbestos. 
 Silica -- for the most part, highly purified quartz -- is used to make glass, fiberglass, paints and ceramics, as well as in foundry casting. Because of silica's wide use, the potential for lawsuits is great, said Bob Glenn, president of the National Industrial Sand Association, whose members mine and process industrial sand, which is is derived from quartz.
The insurers assert that lawyers bringing the silicosis lawsuits are cynically manipulating the justice system for financial gain by claiming silicosis in people who have already filed asbestosis claims and who may not have both diseases, for example, or by obtaining two diagnoses for the same patient -- one describing possible asbestosis, the other a potential case of silicosis. 
"This is about the plaintiffs' bar trying to turn silica into the next asbestos," said Mark A. Behrens, a lawyer in the Washington office of Shook, Hardy & Bacon, which is representing the insurers. "It is not there yet."
Trial lawyers respond that if silicosis claims are rising, it is because of more widespread screening and a greater awareness of legal rights. Arguments otherwise, they say, are just an effort to obtain legislative protection.
"It's part of the overall tort reform movement that the insurance companies have put together," said Lance H. Lubel, a partner at the Houston law firm of Heard, Robins, Cloud, Lubel & Greenwood, which represents clients with both asbestosis and silicosis claims. "If anybody tells you that silicosis is on the verge of becoming the next asbestos, there's no support for that."
No one seems to have comprehensive data on the number of silicosis lawsuits filed. (More than 600,000 people had filed asbestos claims as of last fall, the RAND Corporation said.) One large insurer now faces 30,000 silica cases, up from about 2,500 a year ago, said a spokesman for the coalition of insurance companies. And the U.S. Silica Company had nearly 15,300 new claims filed against it through June, up from about 5,200 for all of 2002 and roughly 1,400 in 2001.
"We're basically being swamped with paper," said John Ulizio, chief executive at U.S. Silica. And at least one complaint has named several other companies, including Bechtel, Ingersoll Rand and Lockheed Martin.
There has been no increase in deaths from silica exposure, people in the industry say, arguing that plaintiffs' lawyers are manufacturing a litigation crisis, not responding to a medical one.
"I just don't think that we're seeing an epidemic of silicosis," Mr. Glenn said, noting that according to the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health -- the government agency where Mr. Glenn used to work -- fatalities are declining.
Injuries "were low to begin with and are on the way down," said Mr. Behrens, the lawyer for the insurers. "But if you look at the number of claims, they were low to begin with and are on the way up. What explains that?"
Most of the cases have been filed in Texas and Mississippi, states viewed by defense lawyers as overly friendly to plaintiffs, Mr. Behrens said.
There is disagreement over whether there is a clear way to diagnose either disease based solely on objective criteria like an X-ray. Asbestos and silicosis can have very similar effects, said Gregory R. Wagner, the director of the institute's division of respiratory disease studies. 
"Silicosis is a chronic lung disease caused by the inhalation of fine crystalline silica or quartz dust," Dr. Wagner said. When the dust is retained in the lungs, he said, it starts a cycle of inflammation that scars the lungs. Something as mundane as shortness of breath may be a result of silicosis, which is not usually fatal, he said.
To complicate matters, it is possible to suffer from both asbestosis and silicosis -- meaning some people may legitimately file lawsuits involving both diseases. 
Relatively recent -- and somewhat controversial -- scientific findings have given plaintiffs new ammunition, said Nathan A. Schachtman, a defense lawyer at McCarter & English in Philadelphia. Some scientists, he said, have linked silica exposure to cancer, for example. While there are not a lot of cases claiming cancer caused by silica, he said, "To borrow a phrase from the BBC, it does sex up the litigation."
The arguments on the two fronts differ, lawyers said. In asbestos cases, plaintiffs' lawyers have argued that manufacturers concealed how harmful the material was, but with silica they must argue that manufacturers failed to warn of the dangers, Mr. Behrens said.
The distinction matters. If an employer knows how risky silica is, he said -- and its dangers have been known for at least 70 years -- then the employer may be liable, but not the supplier.
"Traditional tort law has said, at least for suppliers, there is no duty to warn where the employers have knowledge about the risks," Mr. Behrens said. 
But it is a law that many do not know, said Mr. Schachtman, who defended companies against silicosis lawsuits nearly two decades ago. He will be speaking about silica litigation at a conference in Las Vegas later this month and is co-chairman of another conference in Atlanta in October. 
After his cases in the 1980's, Mr. Schachtman said, he never expected his particular expertise to be popular again.
"I actually thought that we had made the world safe for sand," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SILICOSIS (93%); LITIGATION (93%); LAWYERS (91%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (90%); TOXIC TORTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ASBESTOSIS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); TORTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); FIBERGLASS (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); FOUNDRIES (70%); TORT REFORM (50%) Silica; Suits and Litigation; Asbestos; Liability for Products; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Silicosis; Silica; Tests and Testing

COMPANY: SHOOK HARDY & BACON LLP (84%); RAND CORP (61%); HEARD ROBINS CLOUD & BLACK LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL SAND ASSOCIATION (55%) US Silica (Co); Bechtel Group; Ingersoll-Rand Co; Lockheed Martin

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (61%)

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



129 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Asian Currency Controls 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

 BODY:
 Asia-Pacific finance ministers rejected a call by the United States Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, left, to let markets decide the value of currencies, saying only that ending government controls would not promote economic growth in all cases. 
"There is no single regime that suits all economies at all times," 21 ministers from the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum said in a joint statement. "We noted a view expressed at the meeting that more flexible exchange-rate management, in some cases" is beneficial. Mr. Snow said the agreement was an "essential first step" in ending managed exchange rates, which companies in the United States blame for a surge in imports from Asia.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); TRENDS (85%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%) Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation

PERSON: SNOW, JOHN W. ; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



130 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Agassi Made Some Of His Own Luck

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY

 BODY:
IT is one thing to stack the United States Open schedule so that venerable Andre Agassi gets his rest. But now the Open has gone too far.
 Yesterday's scandal concerned Agassi's opponent, Guillermo Coria of Argentina, reaching into his duffel bag in the morning and cutting his thumb. 
 The offending weapon was a sharp tool used to remove calluses from the gnarled feet of tennis players. 
Did some minion of the Open remove a safety device or expose the tool in Coria's bag? We promise we will not rest until the true story is revealed.
The wound was still present when Coria went out to play Agassi in the quarterfinals during the demolition derby weekend at the Open. In the early minutes, Coria rubbed the thumb against his racket, and the wound started bleeding all over again. A trainer had to come out and stanch the wound.
For what it is worth, Coria said the cut had absolutely nothing to do with his 6-4, 6-3, 7-5 loss to the ancient Zen master from Las Vegas.
Coria, a mobile Argentine, was more hampered by a tight thigh that he was nursing through the tournament.
Every losing player had something. Sjeng Schalken had to stretch out his back. Lleyton Hewitt felt pain in his hip. Younes el-Aynaoui had the trainer taping his left knee. Only the strong survive on this made-for-American-TV weekend. 
But give Agassi some credit. Remember, this is the man who was once compared by Barbra Streisand to a Zen master -- and this is exactly what the man has become. 
At 33, he has the shaven skull and serene bearing of a wise old soul who knows how to avoid the dead spots of rain delays.
Agassi helped himself in this tournament. 
He grumbled at the right time early in the second week when a match of his was suspended overnight because of rain. But then he had two full days without a match while his colleagues were fuming, fretting, warming up, cooling down, noshing, playing parlor games and just plain killing time. 
"Certainly, nothing jumps to mind that's been as frustrating as the last few days," Agassi said. "But you see a lot out there over the years."
No doubt, the fast track to the quarterfinals was a gift from the American television networks, who wanted Agassi and Andy Roddick all present and accounted for in today's semifinals, which has now come to pass.
However, Agassi had to avoid being caught in the psychological stampede of athletes who are strung as tightly as their rackets. 
His good friend and trainer Gil Reyes compared the quarterfinalists to thoroughbreds who can't wait to get into the starting gate at the Kentucky Derby. Not all of them handle adversity the same way.
"Once you are out of sorts, like any artist or musician or performer or singer, all of a sudden you are off a little bit, and you are off a lot," Reyes said yesterday.
"When you have a tiny little pebble in your shoe, you don't walk the same. Same with us. Anything that throws us off is a big difference."
Agassi avoided the pitfalls by steering clear of the players' lounge. He did not want to see the vacant stares and twitchy postures of his colleagues.
He got in some light hitting -- funny how the practice courts opened up to the American Zen master -- then he rushed back to his family, which includes his son, Jaden Gil, and his wife, Steffi Graf, who used to play tennis herself.
Does Agassi seek advice from his wife about how to deal with the waiting?
"No, we don't speak in the house," Agassi told a roomful of reporters. "It's just, I don't know, I don't think it's healthy."
He knows how to make the little jokes. He's been around. They can rig the schedule for him, but nobody plays for him.
He was playing Coria, 12 years younger and better suited to clay, and wearing a wrap around one thigh, and it was up to Agassi to beat the youngster, and quickly, if possible.
"Back to back, three days in a row, a three-setter comes in handy," Agassi admitted.
In the first set, Coria laid a couple of gorgeous drop shots just on the other side of the net, but Agassi showed no sign of frustration that the kid was moving him around. In the next two sets, Coria kept trying the drop shot, and Agassi began moving in on him. 
Maybe it was Coria's thigh. Maybe it was the conspiracy of the schedule. Maybe it was the wayward callus scraper.
Or maybe it was the wisdom and the economy and the skill of Agassi in a tournament that is always designed to weed out the weak. The rain has merely ratcheted up the misery this time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ATHLETES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); HORSE RACING (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%) Tennis; Sports of the Times (Times Column); United States Open (Tennis); Weather; Rain

PERSON: George Vecsey; Andre Agassi

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



131 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Standoff Poses 'Greatest Threat,' Carter Says 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Former President Jimmy Carter, the man credited with defusing the 1994 North Korean nuclear crisis, warned here today that the current standoff was the world's "greatest threat." 
 "This paranoid nation and the United States now are facing what I believe to be the greatest threat in the world to regional and global peace," Mr. Carter said of North Korea. The Bush administration, which has avoided using the word "crisis" in referring to North Korea's revival of its nuclear program, had no immediate comment on Mr. Carter's Asian visit or his message. 
 Mr. Carter, who won the Nobel Peace Prize last year, met here today with Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi. On Sunday he flies to Beijing where he is to meet with top Chinese leaders. Traveling on an agenda to promote aid to Africa, he said he had no plan to repeat his 1994 trip to North Korea's capital, Pyongyang, which opened the way to the first nuclear agreement with North Korea.
"Unfortunately both sides have violated some of those agreements," he said, criticizing North Korea for enriching uranium in order to make bombs. "At the same time, the United States has refused direct talks, has branded North Korea as an axis of evil, has declared an end of no first use of atomic weapons, has invaded Iraq and has been intercepting North Korean ships at sea." 
Warning against pushing North Korea, he added, "That country is isolated, very fearful of outside threats, economically punished by longstanding sanctions with a superb military technology and the ability to destroy hundreds and thousand of lives and most of Seoul if a war should come."
He urged a continuation of the six-party talks in Beijing that took place last week with the participation of China, Japan, Russia, the United States and North and South Korea.
Mr. Carter said North Korea should renounce nuclear weapons and the use of violence in dealing with South Korea. Next Tuesday North Korea's leadership celebrates the 55th anniversary of the founding of the country. Many outside analysts fear that North Korea could use the anniversary to declare itself a nuclear power or hold a nuclear test.
In return for North Korea's giving up its bombs and its bomb-making capabilities, Mr. Carter said, the United States should agree to a nonaggression pact with North Korea, negotiated and guaranteed by North Korea's neighbors.
"A unilateral decision by the United States the North Koreans would not trust," he said. Other incentives, he said, could include "the lifting of all economic and political sanctions against North Korea and the opportunity for that little country to become completely absorbed in world affairs on a normal basis." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TRENDS (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Foreign Aid ; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (93%) James Brooke; Jimmy Carter; Junichiro (Prime Min) Koizumi

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (87%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); IRAQ (79%) North Korea; Japan; Seoul (South Korea); South Korea; Africa; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



132 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
Bush to Broadcast an Address On Iraq and Terror Tomorrow

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush plans to address the nation on Sunday night to discuss Iraq and the campaign against terrorism, the White House said today.
 The speech will be delivered against a backdrop of persistent violence in Iraq and growing disaffection among Iraqis, along with mounting criticism at home over the cost and apparent shortcomings of the postwar occupation and reconstruction. 
 White House officials said Mr. Bush would speak for about 15 minutes, beginning at 8:30. The address will take place at the White House, although not in the Oval Office, a setting Mr. Bush has used only for his most serious addresses -- once after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, and this year when he announced the start of the bombing of Baghdad. 
"The president believes this is a good time to talk to the American people about the progress we're making in our ongoing war on terrorism and our needs going forward," Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, said to reporters who accompanied Mr. Bush here for a speech on the economy and a fundraiser for his re-election campaign.
The address will come four days before the second anniversary of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and four months after Mr. Bush's last nationally televised prime-time speech on Iraq, from the deck of the carrier Abraham Lincoln, where he declared that "major combat operations" had ended.
Since then American forces in Iraq have suffered steady casualties. Efforts to stabilize the country have been undermined by terrorist attacks apparently carried out by Saddam Hussein loyalists and by anti-American Muslim extremists who may have come from outside Iraq.
After resisting calls from many Democrats and some members of his own party to seek military and financial help from allies other than Britain and the handful of others who have fought alongside the United States, Mr. Bushthis week reversed course and began circulating a proposal at the United Nations for a more multinational effort in Iraq.
In addition, the estimated costs to stabilize the country have swollen well beyond what Congress had anticipated. Mr. Bush is expected to seek $60 billion or more from Congress soon just to pay for one more year of what now seems likely to be a long American presence in the country.
Republicans close to the White House said the speech was an attempt to seize the initiative in a situation that had veered out of control during the president's August working vacation at his Texas ranch. 
Tonight a White House official said that Mr. Bush would use the speech to talk about the need for more international troops in Iraq, but that he would not specifically address the cost of the war or when American troops would come home.
Mr. McClellan said Mr. Bush had first raised the possibility of a national address with his staff during his trip last week to St. Louis, where he delivered a speech in which he called the continuing fighting in Iraq a critical moment in the campaign against terrorism.
"During August the president spent a considerable amount of time talking to his national security team and military leaders about our ongoing efforts on the war on terrorism and making assessments about our needs," Mr. McClellan said. "So the president has been assessing our needs and looking at what's needed going forward." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

INDUSTRY:  SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (77%) INDIANA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



133 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Prepared for Arrows, Dean Is Hit Only by Kid Gloves

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: ALBUQUERQUE, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
When Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont, ran into each other outside a hotel ballroom hours before they joined the other presidential candidates for the Democrats' first debate here on Thursday night, Dr. Dean demurred at Mr. Gephardt's polite promise of "it'll be fun."
 "It'll be fun for some people," said Dr. Dean, whose recent rise has made him the focal point of a crowded field. "I'm wearing my body armor for this one." 
 But the arrows never came, at least not from Mr. Gephardt and the other leading rivals to Dr. Dean in the early-voting states of Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. Part of the reason is that these party gatherings are almost always a careful dance, with the candidates uncertain about whether, or how much, to bash whichever colleague is the flavor of the moment.
"Unless there are real clear distinctions or real clear vulnerabilities, to just go after somebody because they're the front-runner can backfire on you," said Diana Carlin, a professor at the University of Kansas who is an expert on political communication and a member of a national advisory board on presidential debates. "If it looks like all you're trying to do is being nasty and you don't have much substance, it doesn't exactly play well with a partisan audience."
The Democratic contenders followed this approach on Thursday night when they aimed their sharpest attacks at President Bush rather than deflate Dr. Dean's high-flying balloon of support. Even Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, who criticized Dr. Dean last week on national television and on the campaign trail, did not mention him by name.
In fact, instead of taking down Dr. Dean -- who has surged in several recent state or regional polls -- several Democrats seemed to be trying to echo the approach that has made the former governor so popular among partisans.
Debate experts, and strategists with several campaigns, said this was both because focusing on Dr. Dean would only enhance his stature, and because the format did not allow for much interaction among the candidates. Lobbing attacks at someone who could eventually be the party's nominee is also risky because the opposition party can exploit those sound bites in the general election -- as Democrats did with George H. W. Bush's denunciation of Ronald Reagan's "voodoo economics" in 1980, before he became Mr. Reagan's running mate.
With four months to go before the primary balloting begins, and with much of the public still unable to even to name all the candidates, the Democratic hopefuls are trying to define themselves positively, leaving harsh differentiation for later.
"I don't think that you enhance yourself by kicking someone else in the groin," said David Axelrod, a consultant for Senator John Edwards of North Carolina. "Everybody concluded that it was smarter not to engage in a bloodbath or a demolition derby -- that's not what people wanted. The target that Democrats have in focus is George Bush."
For his part, Dr. Dean offered a fairly flat performance on Thursday night, spinning out staples from his stump speech but failing to capture the audience with any new zingers. Even some of his staunchest supporters pleaded on the Internet for a session with an image/debate coach. 
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut hit Dr. Dean hardest, saying that "the Bush recession would be followed by the Dean depression" because of Dr. Dean's proposal that trade agreements require strict environmental and labor standards. 
And Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio scored one of the evening's best laugh lines at Dr. Dean's expense by pointing out that "Vermont doesn't have a military." That not only commented on Dr. Dean's unwillingness to cut military spending, but also made him look small.
Analysts said these two candidates had the least to lose in firing at Dr. Dean -- Senator Lieberman because he is courting a more conservative constituency, and Mr. Kucinich because his is such a longshot bid. For both, in fact, attacking Dr. Dean was the surest way to get attention on the shared stage and in the news coverage that followed it.
Mitchell McKinney, a communications professor at the University of Missouri, said that in such intraparty competitions, the "contenders" often leave it to the "also-rans" to throw the barbs. In studying the 2000 Republican debates, for example, he found that Steve Forbes was far more likely to attack than Mr. Bush or his chief rival, John McCain.
"If these contenders went after Dean very heavily, that would obviously, very immediately, raise his legitimacy," Professor McKinney said. "They would be playing out what we all think: Is Dean the frontrunner? He is, because, look he's being attacked by Kerry and the others. They probably are also thinking, We'll let others do it, we'll let the also-rans, let them do the attack and we're going to take the high ground here."
An adviser to Senator Kerry said that the debate strategy reflected the campaign's belief that Dr. Dean had captured attention not because he is the most compelling figure, but because he has the clearest message -- so "the most important part of our job is to get our candidate and our message out there in a clear and compelling way."
Representative Gephardt's strategy was to deride President Bush as a "miserable failure" -- a phrase he used five times.
"We never entered this debate or any debate with the strategy that we have to take Howard Dean out or anybody out," Mr. Gephardt's campaign manager, Steve Elmendorf, said. "We think the best way to take him or any other candidate out is to be the candidate who makes the strongest case positively for yourself."
Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who was the host of the debate, said he was surprised but pleased to see the target disappear from Dr. Dean's back. Governor Richardson said he suspected that the top-tier candidates were wary of alienating party activists who are motivated by Dr. Dean's momentum. 
"He has the most loyal activist base," Governor Richardson said, "Woe the candidate that attacks him hoping to attract some of that base in a future primary." 
"Even though I want to see a nondivisive campaign," he added, "you get traction by making the attack yourself if you do it right."
This is, after all, only the first of six official party debates, with others scattered throughout the fall. 
"I have no doubt that when the straws get shorter and the roster of candidates gets shorter," one strategist said, "that tempers will get shorter, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Dean made a stop yesterday at his Arizona campaign headquarters, in Phoenix, where he autographed a supporter's shirt. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (55%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Jodi Wilgoren; Howard Dean; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt; Dennis J (Rep) Kucinich; Bill (Gov) Richardson

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%) VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Albuquerque (Nm)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



134 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-6

Palestinian Prime Minister Appears Ready to Resign
Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime minister, plans to announce his resignation. Associates of Mr. Abbas say he has concluded that the move may force Yasir Arafat, under international pressure, to bring back Mr. Abbas, or another prime minister, with guaranteed authority. A1

Weapon Sites Unguarded in Iraq
American officials said about 50 munitions sites in Iraq containing explosives similar to those used in recent bombings remained largely unguarded. One official acknowledged that the military does not have enough troops to watch every site. A1

Hamas Leader Shot and Killed
A leader of the Islamic militant group Hamas was shot dead in the West Bank after he fired on Israeli troops, killing a naval commando and wounding four others. Three other Hamas members were arrested. A3

Ex-Leader Fled With Millions
Charles G. Taylor, who stepped down as president of Liberia and flew to exile in Nigeria, left with $3 million donated for disarming and demobilizing armed combatants, according to a United Nations official. The sum is roughly equal to six months of current government revenues. A3

Carter Speaks Out on Korea
Former President Jimmy Carter, credited with defusing the 1994 North Korean nuclear crisis, warned that the current standoff there is the "greatest threat" to the world. The Bush administration had no immediate comment. A4

A Sharp Reversal in Hong Kong
Hong Kong's chief executive, Tung Chee-hwa, said he was withdrawing internal-security legislation that had provoked huge protests. The retreat is a startling setback for Beijing, which rarely yields to popular demand. A1

Crime Rattles Japanese Calm
Crime has risen sharply in Japan in the last few years, altering everyday lives, especially of city dwellers, and for the first time becoming a hot political issue. A1

NATIONAL A7-9, 12

Polls Show Defeat For Alabama Tax Plan
Gov. Bob Riley, whose ambitious vision for a new Alabama is built on $1.2 billion in new taxes, is probably headed for defeat when the state votes on his plan in a referendum next week. A1

Man Killed at Disneyland
A man riding a Disneyland roller coaster was killed and 10 people injured when passengers were spilled from the train. A7

Call for Defense Resignations
A senior House Democrat called for the resignations of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and the deputy secretary, Paul D. Wolfowitz, saying that their miscalculations had cost American lives in Iraq and damaged the nation's fiscal health. A6

DNA Evidence in Old Case
Prosecutors said they have found the real killer of a 9-year-old girl whom Kirk Bloodsworth, left, was convicted of slaying nearly two decades ago. Ten years ago, he became the first death row inmate in the country to be exonerated based on DNA testing. A7

Congress Tackles Energy Bill
Congressional negotiations on a broad new energy policy began with Republican leaders serving notice that they intended to write much of the proposal. A9

EDUCATION

House Approves Voucher Plan
The House narrowly approved a $10 million private-school voucher plan for poor Washington students. A12

Tough-Love Schools Under Fire
A review of seven "tough love" programs or "specialty boarding schools" found accusations of misconduct at four of them. A8

Co-opting the University
Scholars and educators are warning that the traditional mission and standards of the university are at risk of being compromised by increasing commercialization. B9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Rapper for Infamous Label Is Killed on Queens Street
A rap performer who used the name D.O. Cannon was shot dead on a corner in Queens, the authorities said. He was affiliated with a music label that is the subject of a long-running federal investigation. B1

Pataki Cut Payroll Strategically
A close analysis shows that while Governor Pataki appears to have shrunk the payroll of the Executive Chamber, he did it in ways that managed to protect his personal appointees and to reward campaign workers or political allies. B1

Cheney to Speak at W.T.C. Site
Mayor Bloomberg welcomed Vice President Dick Cheney's attendance at the city's Sept. 11 memorial service at Ground Zero. B2

Religion Journal B7

SPORTS D1-7

Belgian Women Win at Open
Justine Henin-Hardenne beat Jennifer Capriati 4-6, 7-5, 7-6 (7-4), in a semifinal match. Kim Clijsters beat Lindsay Davenport, 6-2, 6-3, in the other. D1

Andre Agassi and Juan Carlos Ferrero will play each other in the semifinals, as will Andy Roddick and David Nalbandian. D1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Ecstasy Findings Retracted
A scientific journal retracted a paper it published saying that a typical dose of the drug Ecstasy might cause permanent brain damage. A8

OBITUARIES B16

ARTS & IDEAS B9-15

Moliere Authorship Questioned
A specialist in what is known as lexical statistics claims to have determined that Moliere's masterpieces were in fact the work of Pierre Corneille, the author of "Le Cid." B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Jobless Recovery Continues
The Labor Department announced that 93,000 jobs were lost in August, extending an economic recovery into its 22nd month. Job creation has emerged as an issue in the presidential campaign. A1

Mr. Bush remained upbeat and said Congress should make recent tax cuts permanent. C1

Tenet Inquiry Opened by Senate
The Senate Finance Committee opened an investigation into Tenet Healthcare and requested that the company produce documents. C3

Advances in Tax Evasion Case
Brett Tollman, the son of Stanley S. Tollman, the fugitive New York hotel and travel executive, pleaded guilty to federal tax evasion charges. C3

Indexes Take a Step Back
The Dow fell 84.56 points to 9,503.34, following a five-day advance of 254 points to its highest level since June 2002. The Nasdaq dropped 10.73 points to 1,858.24 after a seven-day gain of 104 points to its highest closing level since March 2002. C4

Challenges Ahead for Verizon
Some analysts said the settlement Verizon reached with its unions could make it harder for the nation's large telephone service providers to face the threats to their business from the cable industry and upstarts. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A10-11

Editorials: Democrats spare the friendly fire; a constitutional anachronism; for civil court.

Bridge B12
TV Listings B15
Crossword B12
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); DISARMAMENT (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (75%); FORENSICS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); EVIDENCE (68%); ARRESTS (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); TAX LAW (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); CITY LIFE (63%); CRIME RATES (63%); REFERENDUMS (61%); DNA (60%); DNA TESTING (60%); RELIGION (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (90%); JIMMY CARTER (71%); BOB RILEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (69%) IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); ISRAEL (79%); JAPAN (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



135 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Increase? $1.2 Billion? Alabamians, It Seems, Say No 

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: MONTGOMERY, Ala., Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Bob Riley, the governor of Alabama, was shouting himself hoarse at a packed rally at Troy State University, promoting the largest tax hike in state history.
 Mr. Riley, trying to connect to an important Alabama tradition, yelled out, "If we don't accept mediocrity in a football team, why do we accept it in everything else?" 
 The band thumped its drums. Cheerleaders smashed pompoms together and did flips. And the crowd on this recent day shouted back, "Vote yes!" embracing Governor Riley's ambitious vision for a new Alabama built on $1.2 billion in new taxes. 
Despite the fervor of his campaign, though, all polls indicate that most voters are going to say no to Mr. Riley's plan on Tuesday, when the state votes on it in a referendum. 
"The thing is doomed," said Keith Nicholls, a pollster at the University of South Alabama. "The masses are against it."
It has all been an extraordinary campaign and an extraordinary conversion for Mr. Riley, a conservative Republican governor and former congressman who rose to power on a strict tax-cut platform.
Yet now, at football games and universities across the state, Mr. Riley, a first-year governor facing a $675 million deficit, is fighting to persuade Alabama to raise taxes and revamp one of the nation's most regressive income tax systems.
"There's nothing else Alabama can do but raise taxes," Mr. Riley said in an interview. "We're last in all the things that are good, first in all the things that are bad."
He cited statistics that show the state at the bottom of per capita spending on education, $6,025 compared to a national average of $8,411. Alabama's fourth-grade writing scores are tied for last among the 50 states. Alabama also collects the least tax dollars per person.
He is not the only one campaigning. So are the constituent groups that once would have been Mr. Riley's most fervent supporters but now oppose him: timber interests, bankers, small-business owners and conservative organizations.
The antitax coalition has raised millions of dollars for a full-blown campaign: yard signs, mailers, television commercials and shrewdly marketed radio spots.
One radio advertisement, run on black stations and intended to appeal to the state's black voters, says in a rural dialect, "Our property taxes could go up as much as 400 percent."
Deserted by his own party, coolly received by Democrats and with polls showing him distrusted by many black voters, Governor Riley may feel awfully alone. At least in Alabama. 
But with a fitful national economy, Mr. Riley is part of a growing group of Republican governors from South Carolina to Nevada turning to tax increases to stay afloat.
Indeed, national conservative groups are crossing their fingers that the Alabama measure goes down in flames to teach a lesson: Jettison a core element of Republican orthodoxy -- tax cuts -- and you are history.
"I want the whole Republican Party to watch this guy fall on his face," said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform in Washington. "He lied to his voters. He's been a disaster. He'll never be elected to anything again in his life."
Mr. Riley fights on. In a last-ditch effort, the onetime door-to-door egg salesman is campaigning around the clock, hitting every college campus, town hall and Kiwanis club that will listen, from the state capital to the Gulf of Mexico. 
The 58-year-old governor is even strutting the stage with the "American Idol" winner Ruben Studdard, an Alabama native, at free "Just Say Yes" concerts.
As he campaigns to change the state tax system which now requires a family of four to pay taxes once its income reaches $4,600 -- the lowest threshold of any state -- Mr. Riley has also turned to religion.
"According to our Christian ethics, we're supposed to love God, love each other and help take care of the poor," said Mr. Riley, a born-again Baptist. "It is immoral to charge somebody making $5,000 an income tax."
Mr. Riley's plan would raise that income threshold for taxes to $17,000 immediately and to $20,000 in three years, while raising the tax rate to 6 percent from 5 percent.
It would also eliminate Alabama's full deduction for federal taxes paid, a provision that now disproportionately benefits the rich.
Mr. Riley's key supporters are college professors, newspaper editorial boards, some big businesses and the all-powerful Alabama teachers' union. Many say that, in making their case, they have been outfoxed.
"The other side did a better job with strategy," said Bill Hanebuth, a spokesman for the Alabama Education Association.
Mr. Riley concedes that "we haven't done a good job of articulating of how this will help the average working man."
The latest poll, taken by the University of South Alabama, shows 26 percent in favor of the referendum, 57 percent against.
The state Democratic Party is officially supporting the measure, though not doing much about it. The Republican Party -- Governor Riley's party -- is mobilizing to defeat it.
"It's been incredibly awkward," said the state Republican chairman, Marty Connors. "I admire Bob Riley. But what am I supposed to do? Throw away 20 years of Republican ideology for something like this?"
Even the political potent Christian Coalition is split. The Alabama chapter campaigning against Mr. Riley, while the national Christian Coalition supports the referendum, saying, "It helps the very least among us."
The state's fiscal problems are not exactly Mr. Riley's fault. Alabama has been decimated by globalization, with its steel mills and textile plants wiped out by imports.
Its budget is also more hogtied than any other state, with 87 percent of public money designated by law for specific programs, compared to a nationwide average of 22 percent. Thus, when times get tight, the legislature has little room to shift funds around. 
Some of Mr. Riley's critics contend that the governor would have gotten what he wanted had he sought just the $675 million needed to cover the deficit.
"It's a huge cash grab," said Bob Gambacurta, spokesman for the main opposition group, the Tax Accountability Coalition. "It's way too much pork and people realize that."
Just in case they did not, the Tax Accountability Coalition is blitzing the airwaves with prime-time television commercials that caricature lawmakers as cigar-smoking old men cutting back-room deals.
Mr. Riley says that the size of the tax plan does not matter: "The same people would be against the referendum no matter how much we asked for. And if we only raise taxes to meet the shortfall, all we've done is maintain the status quo."
The governor says the tax increase is $1.2 billion though independent analysts have predicted that over the years it will cost closer to $1.3 billion.
The tax package actually cuts some taxes for low-income residents, while raising the state income tax for higher earners to 6 percent, from 5 percent.
Yet some of the people who might benefit are not standing with him. Earlier this year, political officials say, Mr. Riley alienated black voters, who might have strongly supported the referendum, by opposing a bill in the Legislature that would have restored voting rights to felons. Hank Sanders, a state senator and member of the black caucus, supports the package but says many blacks do not trust Mr. Riley.
"Some of it is specific to Riley because he's a rich white Republican," Mr. Sanders said. "You can't overcome distrust with a 30-second ad."
William Stewart, a University of Alabama political scientist, said Mr. Riley had gone out on a limb in a way that could haunt him in the next election.
"If this thing fails, like everyone is saying it will, there will definitely be primary opposition," Professor Stewart said. "You'll see. Riley's own party will go after him."
On the other hand, Mr. Riley's stand may have won the support of moderates. That could serve him well, Mr. Stewart added, if he makes it to a general election.
It is not clear exactly what will happen if the referendum fails. But it could get ugly.
Alabama prisons are already at double their capacity. To save money, the governor's aides say, the state may have to release 5,000 felons.
"We might just have to say, 'Hey, fellows, you're free, thanks for staying with us,' " said David Azbell, the governor's press secretary.
Alabama's highways are already underpatrolled, with mannequins sitting in squad cars. Expect more state trooper cuts, Governor Riley said. Other budget items that could be cut include textbooks, teachers' supplies and money for prescription drugs.
After the rally at Troy State, Lucy Skellett, a sophomore cheerleader, explained how the budget woes affected her. Last year, the cheerleading squad got to travel with the football team. This year, there is no money for away games.
"Four games," Ms. Skellett said. "That's all we get to cheer now, is four games. You know how hard we work out for that?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bob Riley on Thursday at Athens, Ala., where he made one of his many speeches appealing for support in a tax referendum. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (50%) Taxation; Taxation; Elections; Referendums; Public Opinion; Finances

ORGANIZATION: TROY STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (94%) Jeffrey Gettleman; Bob (Gov) Riley

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Alabama

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



136 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Report Leads Bush to Defend Reliance on Tax Cuts 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Today's unexpectedly bad employment report dashed the White House's hopes of going into the heat of the presidential campaign with clear evidence of an economic turnaround and forced President Bush to defend his reliance on tax cuts as a remedy.
 In a speech here hours after the government announced that the economy had lost 93,000 more jobs in August, Mr. Bush remained upbeat. He said that if Congress wanted to help, it should make the recent tax cuts permanent and enact other parts of his agenda, from limiting lawsuit awards against doctors and companies to allowing more domestic oil and gas drilling and easing regulations on businesses. 
 "We've taken steps to get our economy growing again, and there are some very hopeful signs that progress is being made," Mr. Bush told a cheering crowd of supporters at an industrial warehouse here. "Yet, today's unemployment report shows we've got more to do. And I'm not going to be satisfied until every American who's looking for a job can find a job."
But he offered no new initiatives, and with the budget deficit surging, a trend that is accelerating as the costs of occupying and rebuilding Iraq continue to grow, his ability to offer any expensive new proposals will remain limited.
Mr. Bush has already pushed three tax cuts through Congress in three years and sold them as the best solution to the economy's short-term problems. Now, having wedded himself to that policy, his political fortunes in 2004 depend to a large extent on whether a rebound in economic growth will reverse -- by the time voters start making up their minds -- the steady slide in employment that has plagued the United States through the first two and a half years of his presidency.
The Democratic presidential candidates seized on the jobs report as further evidence of what they see as Mr. Bush's economic mismanagement. Since he took office, the economy has lost nearly 2.7 million nonfarm jobs, and last month's job losses were the worst since March, according to the Labor Department.
"For seven straight months, businesses have had to cut the number of jobs available in this bleak Bush economy," said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut. "At this rate, there will be only one job left to cut by November 2004: George Bush's."
Mr. Bush shot back at his critics, defending his tax cuts in particular as the right medicine at the right time.
"Tax relief means new jobs for Americans," the president said.
But the economic news provided evidence to those economists who say the economy will be slow to add new jobs and it put new pressure on a White House that is already struggling to keep Mr. Bush's standing as commander in chief from being diminished by the continued bloodshed in Iraq.
Clearly hoping that the latest round of tax cuts would diminish the role of the economy in the presidential race, Mr. Bush had spent much of the summer, including portions of what the White House called his "working vacation" on his ranch in August, serving up a message of cautious optimism.
But many economists are doubtful that the economy, while increasingly robust in many ways, will begin generating large-scale employment gains anytime soon. If their assessment is correct, it raises the prospect of a jobless recovery in the 14 months left until Election Day.
On Thursday, Ben S. Bernanke, a Federal Reserve governor, said "the decline in the unemployment rate, though steady, is likely to be slow." He said the Fed expected the unemployment rate to be 5.5 percent to 6 percent by the fourth quarter of next year, when the election is held.
In his speech, Mr. Bush repeated his standard line that he remained unsatisfied with the extent of the economy's rebound, even in light of the one piece of good news in today's jobs data, the decline in the unemployment rate to 6.1 percent from 6.2 percent, the second consecutive monthly drop.
He did not mention the new elements he has added to his defense of his economic record in recent weeks. They include his suggestion that China is hurting American workers by keeping its currency deliberately undervalued and his announcement on Monday that he would appoint an official in the Commerce Department to help manufacturers, who have been hardest hit by the recession and the sluggish recovery. His critics have called those steps window-dressing.
By some measures, Mr. Bush can point to progress on the economy. Growth is picking up, the stock market has rebounded somewhat and one of the most important measures of the economy's long-term prospects, productivity growth, or the increase in how much of a product or service each worker can produce, is surging.
But as far as employment goes, the economy is to some degree a victim of its own success. Because companies are able to produce more goods and services with fewer or the same number of people, they have less reason to start hiring even as demand for their products increases.
"We're having a good recovery, with growth through productivity, which is good for corporate profits," said Paul McCulley, chief economist at Pimco, a bond trading firm. "But corporate profits don't vote."
While productivity is hardly a household term -- and not one conducive to bumper-sticker-slogan political discourse -- Mr. Bush made an effort today to explain to voters the good news-bad news aspect of the latest economic developments.
"Long term, it's good that we're more productive," Mr. Bush said. "It means higher wages for the American worker. It means we're more competitive overseas. Short term, this economy needs to crank up faster than productivity increases in order for somebody to find a job."
But the effect of the economy on Mr. Bush's political positioning is beginning to show. In the face of arguments from many Democratic candidates that the administration's trade policies are subjecting American workers to unfair competition from abroad, Mr. Bush continued today to suggest that his support for unfettered commerce had its limits, even as his trade team prepares for a new round of talks to reduce impediments to trade worldwide.
The pressure he has put on China over its currency, like his earlier decision to give American steel makers some protection from foreign competition, was intended in part to bolster his prospects in electorally vital industrial states like Pennsylvania, Michigan, West Virginia and Ohio. And today he adopted the language of many critics of free trade, saying American workers deserve "a level playing field" with foreign competitors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We've taken steps to get our economy growing again, and there are some very hopeful signs that progress is being made," President Bush told supporters at an industrial warehouse in Indianapolis yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LITIGATION (70%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Taxation; Law and Legislation; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W ; George W (Pres) Bush; Richard Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003 



137 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Unheavenly Days 

BYLINE:  By R. Scott Appleby; R. Scott Appleby, a professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, addressed the Roman Catholic bishops of the United States at their national conference in Dallas in June 2002.

 BODY:
 A PEOPLE ADRIFT
The Crisis of the
Roman Catholic Church in America.
By Peter Steinfels.
392 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $26.

The COMING
CATHOLIC CHURCH
How the Faithful Are Shaping
a New American Catholicism.
By David Gibson.
350 pp. San Francisco:
HarperSanFrancisco. $23.95.
 The first sentence on Page 1 of "A People Adrift" sets forth the stakes. "Today the Roman Catholic Church in the United States is on the verge of either an irreversible decline," Peter Steinfels writes, "or a thoroughgoing transformation."
Hyperbole? Not if two reliable witnesses are to be believed. Steinfels, who writes the Beliefs column for The New York Times (and was once the paper's senior religion correspondent) enjoys a well-deserved reputation for equable and exacting reporting and analysis; sensationalism is not his metier. He is also a seriously committed Catholic intellectual, for whom the late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, Archbishop of Chicago, stands as a model of consensus-building, moderately liberal episcopal leadership. 
David Gibson, a religion writer for a variety of publications and a former correspondent for Vatican Radio, is a convert whose zeal for his new faith is expressed not by intemperate judgments but by incisive observations, a playful wit and a passion for what the author Rosemary Haughton once called "The Catholic Thing" -- the capacious, sacramental religious imagination that operates by analogy rather than linear logic and perceives virtually everything human (including the body and sexual love) as occasion for a graced encounter with the divine mystery. "To some it would seem hypocritical for Catholics to stay in the church at this point, or at best an indicator of unjustifiable passivity," Gibson admits. "Then again, maybe it's the sign of a first-rate intelligence." 
"At this point" things do indeed look bleak. The revelations of a pattern of sexual abuse of children and young people by a small but significant percentage of priests over the course of 40 years, and the even more damaging disclosure of systematic shielding and reassignment of such priests by their bishops, both authors agree, have placed American Catholicism at risk. Legally and financially, it is open season on the church; across the nation, dioceses face hundreds of millions of dollars in payments to victims (and their attorneys). The laity, especially the most vulnerable in society, will be footing the bill. Despite the best intentions of church leaders, services to the poor and needy will continue to be cut, schools and churches closed and essential ministries jeopardized as funds are diverted to cover the costs of the scandal. 
Morale may be at an all-time low. Since 2002, five Catholic bishops, including the cardinal archbishop of Boston, have resigned; two others barely escaped indictment. A dozen bishops have been subpoenaed to testify at grand jury investigations. 
So much for the good news. However debilitating the current scandal, both Steinfels and Gibson contend that it is symptomatic of a deeper crisis roiling the American church, a malaise that has been building since Vatican II (1962-65) transformed the face of modern Catholicism -- or, depending on one's point of view, since Pope Paul VI dashed the hopes for genuine, abiding transformation by repudiating the recommendation of his own committee and reaffirming the traditional ban on artificial birth control in 1968. The church faced the stark alternatives of decline or reform before the sexual abuse revelations, Steinfels asserts, "and would do so today even if this shocking sexual misconduct had never occurred." 
The signs of decline are indeed grim: in church attendance rates, the number of priests per lay Catholic, knowledge of the faith and the participation of women, Latinos and young Catholics. Accompanying the dispiriting data are constant, mutually demoralizing skirmishes between American Catholics of left and right -- professional ideologues who seem to agree only that the American bishops are feckless leaders. (Progressives blame episcopal timidity on the decidedly noncollaborative, nonconsultative style of the strong-willed Pope John Paul II, while conservatives castigate the bishops for indulging the left's supposed love affair with decadent American culture.)
Countering these dismal trends is the stunning fact of postconciliar lay initiative in the church and the world. Thirty thousand "called and gifted" lay Catholics, 80 percent of whom are women, have entered pastoral ministry and are now working in over 60 percent of the nation's 19,000 Catholic parishes. Gibson notes that nearly that many are in training, making the number of lay and potential lay ministers higher than the number of active priests. These women and men are now indispensable to the vitality of local Catholicism -- they conduct religious education and social justice programs, oversee preparation for marriage and other sacraments, and serve as administrators in the nearly one-fifth of the parishes that do not have a resident priest. 
Meanwhile, the laity are inheriting the mantle of institutional leadership of a vast network of Catholic universities and colleges, parochial schools, health care facilities and hospitals, and charitable and social service agencies. Facing all of these institutions is the pressing question of Catholic identity -- defining what it might mean in our day to be a "Catholic" relief agency, university or hospital. With typical rigor and thoughtfulness, Steinfels probes: "What is the church accomplishing with its considerable investment of resources in these institutions? Are they continuing to be fed spiritually, intellectually and financially by the American Catholic community -- and to feed it in turn? Or are they spinning off into a kind of separate planetary system, where they will support themselves on the basis of government funding, medical insurance payments, tuition and fees for services, where they will continue to do good work, but where their relationship to the religious life of the nation's largest church would be minimal and peripheral?" 
The transition to lay leadership is both inevitable and uncertain. How will lay Catholics, committed to supporting their own careers and families, replicate the low-cost, labor-intensive service of generations of celibate nuns and priests? Is lay ministry, on the scale it is needed, even viable? The current generation of lay ministers operates in the absence of an officially approved ecclesiology (theory of the church) that would make theological sense of their role alongside that of the priests.
And after the boomer generation passes into history, who will assume responsibility? To chillingeffect Gibson quotes the 30-something Boston College theologian Tom Beaudoin, who describes the perceptions of some of his fellow young Catholics: "The post-Vatican-II church is often a place of self-deception, abusive silence and double talk, especially about sexuality and about power. . . . We know now that our church can cover up its spiritual deficits as well as WorldCom or Enron can cover up their economic losses." Not exactly the sensibility of a generation ready to step up to the plate. 
As they fill in the contours of the crisis in Catholicism, Steinfels and Gibson occasionally speak in the first person, with insight and concern, and each offers reasonable proposals for reform that are distinguished by mature consideration of what is and is not possible to achieve within the framework of a 2,000-year-old global and truly multicultural institution. Indeed the proposals are quite modest, perhaps to a fault, given the goal of "a thoroughgoing transformation" of the Catholic Church in the United States (Steinfels), to be produced by a lay-led "revolution from below" (Gibson).
Such a transformation, they acknowledge, will require the hierarchy to engage in frank and uncensored discussion of grievances and differences with the laity. It will require cooperation with, not humiliation of, responsible lay reform groups like Voice of the Faithful. It will also require lay Catholics to address the moral, spiritual and institutional dimensions of the crisis with an honesty and moral courage born of deep conviction that the church is still worth profound personal sacrifice. 
The greatest triumphs of Christian societies were forged in the church's darkest hours. This is a dark hour. Shedding light on it, as these fine journalists have done, is no doubt the sign of first-rate intelligence.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gregory Nemec) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); SUBPOENAS (82%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); TESTIMONY (75%); WITNESSES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (70%); SCANDALS (69%); LITERATURE (67%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (64%); GRAND JURY (61%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); CHILD ABUSE (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: APPLEBY, R SCOTT (PROF); STEINFELS, PETER; GIBSON, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%)

TITLE: PEOPLE ADRIFT, A (BOOK); COMING CATHOLIC CHURCH, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



138 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 96

LENGTH: 9511 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/ART; 
Art by Numbers: A 1,000-Foot Halo, and Jasper Johns

BYLINE:  By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
 All dates subject to change.

September

'FRENCH ARTISTS IN ROME: INGRES TO DEGAS, 1803-1873' -- One of New York's most intriguingly idiosyncratic art museums, the Dahesh was founded to preserve and promote 19th-century European academic art, a category now in recovery from its steep devaluation by 20th-century Modernism. Last Wednesday the museum reopened in expansive new quarters at 580 Madison Avenue -- the former site of the IBM galleries -- with an exhibition of 130 paintings focusing on winners of the coveted Prix de Rome who lived and worked at the Villa Medici, home of the French Academy in Rome. Dahesh Museum. Through Nov. 2. (212) 759-0606. www.daheshmuseum.org

CAI GUO-QIANG, 'LIGHT CYCLE' -- Mr. Cai, who is known for his literally combustive artworks, will produce an "explosion event" to celebrate the 150th anniversary of Central Park. The centerpiece of the high-tech fireworks display will be a 1,000-foot-high halo of fire and light. Organized by Creative Time, the show is scheduled for 7:45 p.m. on Sept. 15 and is supposed to last just four or five minutes, so don't be late. Check Creative Time's Web site for a hot-line phone number for information updates. www.creativetime.org. Meanwhile, the Asia Society will present an exhibition of Mr. Cai's gunpowder drawings and studies for the project from Tuesday to Dec. 14. (212) 288-6400. www.asiasociety.org

'MARC CHAGALL' -- Always popular but not always highly respected, the great Russian Modernist painter and poetic storyteller was revived for a while by Neo-Expressionists in the 1980's. It should be interesting to see how he looks now. The seven-decade retrospective will include about 65 paintings and 88 works on paper. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Through Nov. 4. (415) 357-4000. www.sfmoma.org

'ST. PETER AND THE VATICAN: THE LEGACY OF THE POPES' -- Drawn from the Vatican's collections, this exhibition presents some 350 paintings, sculptures and ceremonial objects. Highlights include works by Giotto, Michelangelo and Bernini. Representing 2,000 years of Roman Catholic Church history, the show promises to be a blockbuster of staggering visual plenitude. Fort Lauderdale Museum of Art, in Florida. Through Nov. 23. (954) 525-5500. www.museumofart.org. Traveling to the Cincinnati Museum Center in December and the San Diego Museum of Art in May.

'GILLIAN WEARING: MASS OBSERVATION' -- The 1997 winner of the British Turner Prize makes eccentrically inventive films about social problems like alcoholism, domestic abuse and neglected children. People speak through masks and children lip sync the words of adults, prompting not only the usual sociological questions but philosophical thoughts about how we know what we think we know. Philadelphia Institute of Contemporary Art. Through Dec. 14. (215) 763-8100. www.icaphila.org

'STRANGE MESSENGER: THE WORK OF PATTI SMITH' -- One of the original punk rockers has also been making visual art since the 1960's. Organized by the Andy Warhol Museum, this show surveys works on paper from five decades. Philadelphia Institute of Contemporary Art. Through Dec. 7. (215) 763-8100. www
.icaphila.org

'THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF REAGAN LOUIE: SEX WORK IN ASIA' -- Mr. Louie spent six years documenting the Asian sex industry, and the results are more bleak than sexy. Along with 70 of his pictures, this show will include works by artists like Balthus, Bellocq, Nan Goldin and Cindy Sherman who have in various ways explored the seamier sides of sexuality. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Through Dec. 7. (415) 357-4000. www.sfmoma.org

'LO FEO DE ESTE MUNDO: IMAGES OF THE GROTESQUE' -- Whether for edification or entertainment, artists have been making images of monstrous ugliness for centuries. Modern and contemporary Latin American art abounds in grotesquerie. This 20-artist show samples the tradition, including works by Jose Luis Cuevas, Antonio Segui, Jorge de la Vega and Liliana Porter. Jack S. Blanton Museum of Art, Austin. Through Jan. 4. (512) 471-7324. www.blantonmuseum.org

'FRIDA KAHLO'S INTIMATE FAMILY PICTURE' -- This show revolves around "My Grandparents, My Parents, and I," a painting by the glamorous Mexican magic realist, which is said to reveal aspects of Kahlo's European Jewish and Mexican Catholic ancestry. The show will document biographical and artistic sources for the painting and include Kahlo's photographs of her father. Jewish Museum, New York. Through Jan. 4. (212) 423-3271. www.thejewishmuseum.org

'PLAYING WITH A LOADED GUN: CONTEMPORARY ART IN PAKISTAN' -- In a range of styles, from traditional miniature painting to avant-gardist appropriation, Pakistani artists respond to domestic violence, nuclear war and other issues. Apexart, New York. Through Oct. 4. (212) 431-5270. www.apexart.org

MARIA ELENA GONZALEZ 'UN REAL ESTATES' -- This Cuban-born artist creates environmental sculptures that operate at the intersection of fantasy, politics and architecture. Her solo exhibition was previously seen in Houston and Memphis. Art in General, New York. Through Dec. 20. (212) 219-0473. www.artingeneral.org

'WOSENE KOSROF' -- Paintings by this contemporary Ethiopian artist combine traditional calligraphy, literary symbolism and abstraction to comment on history, culture and memory. Neuberger Museum of Art, Purchase, N.Y. Through Dec. 28. (914) 251-6100. www
.purchase.edu. Traveling to the Newark Museum, Feb. 1-Aug. 29.

'EVERYTHING MATTERS: PAUL KOS, A RETROSPECTIVE' -- Installations by an influential Bay Area conceptualist will include "The Sound of Ice Melting" (1970), which has electronic equipment amplifying melting blocks of ice; "Sand Piece" (1971), which has a ton of sand sifting through a hole in the floor; and "Tower of Babel" (1989), a spiraling ramp of video monitors showing people talking in different languages. Grey Art Gallery, New York, Tuesday through Dec. 6. (212) 998-6780. www.nyu.edu/greyart

TAKASHI MURAKAMI -- Mr. Murakami is known as the Japanese Warhol, but he's on his way to doing what Warhol never quite managed: achieving a total collapse of the boundary between art and commerce. His big outdoor installation, "Reverse Double Helix," centering on a cartoon Buddha-like figure 30 feet tall, promises to be spectacularly entertaining, whether or not it is admirable as art. Organized by the Public Art Fund. Rockefeller Center, New York. Tuesday through Oct. 12. (212) 980-4575.
www.publicartfund.org

'THE RESPONSIVE EYE: RALPH T. COE AND THE COLLECTING OF AMERICAN INDIAN ART' -- 200 objects from 2000 B.C. to the present comprehensively represent most, if not all, of the periods and places of Native-American Art. Metropolitan Museum of Art. Tuesday through Dec. 14. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

'REMEMBRANCE: RUSSIAN POSTMODERN NOSTALGIA' -- This potentially fascinating show presents works by more than two dozen artists who grew up in the Soviet Union but now live elsewhere. The Soviet experience inspired deeply ironic relations to questions of truth and long-lasting emotional conflicts in artists like Komar and Melamid, Ilya Kabakov and Eric Bulatov, among others. Yeshiva University Museum, New York. Wednesday through Feb. 1. (212) 294-8330. www.yumuseum.org

'STRANGERS' -- Considering the degree to which photography has infiltrated, colonized and otherwise altered the landscape of contemporary art, the First Triennial of Photography and Video, a survey of contemporary photography and related media from all over the world, is surely an idea whose time has come. International Center of Photography, New York. Saturday through Nov. 30. (212) 857-0000. www.icp.org

'PARROT TALK: A RETROSPECTIVE OF WORKS BY KIM MacCONNEL' -- This retrospective will trace the three-decade career of one of the founders of the Pattern & Decoration Movement, whose enormous influence has yet to be fully appreciated. Santa Monica Museum of Art, in California. Saturday through Nov. 15. (310) 586-6487. www.smmoa.org

J. SEWARD JOHNSON Jr., 'BEYOND THE FRAME: IMPRESSIONISM REVISITED' -- This sounds like the worst idea of the year, but who knows, it might make for an entertaining show. Mr. Johnson, who is known for tacky bronze figures populating public spaces all over America, has created 15, life-size, walk-in versions of famous Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings, including Manet's "Olympia" and van Gogh's "Bedroom." Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington. Saturday through Jan. 5. (212) 639-1703. www.corcoran.org

'GIRLS' NIGHT OUT' -- Photography and videos about female identity by some of the brighter female stars of the international contemporary-art firmament, including Eija-Liisa Ahtila, Rineke Dijkstra, Katy Grannan and Daniela Rossell. Orange County Museum of Art, Newport Beach, Calif. Next Sunday through Jan. 25. (714) 662-3366. www.ocma.net

'MANNY FARBER: ABOUT FACE' -- From early abstractions to later still-lifes related to the movies, 70 works reflect 50 years of moonlighting as a painter by an eminent film critic. Mr. Farber's artwork deserves to be better known and maybe this exhibition, which will also focus on his writing about film and art, will do the trick. Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego. Next Sunday through Nov. 30. (619) 234-1001. www.mcasd.org

'ROMARE BEARDEN' -- Perhaps the most celebrated of all African-American artists, Bearden is known for his lively and poetic Cubist collages that meditate on experiences of the rural South, the tropics, New York and jazz. This five-decade retrospective will also include paintings, watercolors, fabric works, stage designs, costumes, photographs and book illustrations. National Gallery of Art, Washington. Next Sunday through Jan. 4 (202) 737-4215. www.nga.gov

'GEORGE INNESS' -- One of the very best 19th-century American painters, Inness emerged in the 1870's as a Hudson River School latecomer but moved toward a less fussily detailed and more poetically evocative kind of landscape painting. Somehow it's always a surprise to come across one of his paintings and see how good they are. This retrospective will present 40 works. National Academy of Design, New York. Sept. 17-Dec. 28 (212) 369-4880. www
.nationalacademy.org

'SPLAT BOOM POW! THE INFLUENCE OF CARTOONS IN CONTEMPORARY ART' -- A hundred years from now people wondering why cartoons so pervasively influenced late 20th-century art might look back to this show for some answers. It will feature works by Jean-Michel Basquiat, Keith Haring, Arturo Herrera, Kerry James Marshall, Elizabeth Murray, Takashi Murakami, Andy Warhol and others. Boston Institute of Contemporary Art. Sept. 17-Jan. 4, (617) 266-5152. www.icaboston.com

'PASSION FOR THE MOUNTAINS' -- The Western world never really came close to what the East did with landscape painting. This 60-piece show of 17th-century masterpieces of Chinese landscape painting ranging in format from immense scrolls to small fans from the Nanjing Museum in China promises to be transcendental. China Institute, New York. Sept. 18-Dec. 20. (212) 744-8181.
www.chinainstitute.org

'AMERICAN SHORT STORIES: SAUL STEINBERG/RAYMOND PETTIBON' -- Bonnie Clearwater, director of the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami, has come up with an inspired idea for a show: a meeting between Steinberg, an urbane New Yorker whose cartoons made hilariously visible the frantic, surrealistic life of his city, and Mr. Pettibon, a Southern Californian whose sketchy, stream-of-consciousness images emerge from a mongrel mix of punk, surfing, art and literary cultures. Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami. Sept. 19-Nov. 16. (305) 893-6211.
www.mocanomi.org

'A FICTION OF AUTHENTICITY: CONTEMPORARY AFRICA ABROAD' -- The architect Brad Cloepfil designed the building that holds this inaugural exhibition, an exploration of cultural prejudices by 11 African artists who live in Europe and the United States. Contemporary Art Museum, St. Louis. Sept. 20-Jan. 3. (314) 535-4660. www.contemporarystl.org

'JAPAN: RISING' -- Japanese artists are as strong a presence as ever on the American and international scenes and that trend promises to continue. This timely show will survey some of today's more notable players. Palm Beach Institute of Contemporary Art. Sept. 20-Nov. 9. (561) 582-0006. www.palmbeachica.org

'THE LANGUAGE OF NATIVE AMERICAN BASKETS' -- More than 200 choice examples of basketry from the museum's collection, with an emphasis on weaving techniques, symbolism and economics of the contemporary basket business. Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian, New York. Sept. 20-Jan. 9, 2005. (212) 514-3700.
www.americanindian.si.edu

'RONA PONDICK' -- Few contemporary artists have made sculpture of such Freudian ferocity as Rona Pondick. This exhibition surveys her work since 1992, from the raw, darkly comic images of infantile rage and hunger to the sleek, stainless-steel human/animal hybrids of recent years. Cranbrook Art Museum, Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Sept. 20-Nov. 30. (248) 645-3323. www.cranbrook.edu

'THE DAWN OF PHOTOGRAPHY: FRENCH DAGUERREOTYPES, 1839-1855' -- Whatever their status as art, daguerreotypes are almost always amazing. This exhibition will feature 175 examples of early ones. Among the magically lucid pictures fixed to mirror-bright surfaces will be scientific and documentary images, portraits, landscapes and nudes. Metropolitan Museum. Sept. 23-Jan. 4. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

'SOME KIND OF LOVE: NAYLAND BLAKE PERFORMANCE VIDEO 1989-2002' -- The mercurial Mr. Blake has avoided being trapped by one style but has consistently used quirky symbolic devices like rabbits and gingerbread houses to illuminate issues of cultural and sexual identity. Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery, Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Sept. 27-Dec. 31. (518) 580-8080. www.skidmore.edu/tang

'SHOCKING! THE ART AND FASHION OF ELSA SCHIAPARELLI' -- The convergence of art and fashion was not invented by the 90's. In the 20's and 30's, one of fashion's hottest designers, Elsa Schiaparelli, was collaborating with the Surrealists in Paris, and she continued to be intimately involved with art throughout her career. "Shocking" will present her garments along with artworks by Salvador Dali, Jean Cocteau, Alberto Giacometti and other Modernist luminaries. Philadelphia Museum of Art. Sept. 28-Jan. 4. (215) 763-8100. www.philamuseum.org

'TREASURES OF A LOST ART: ITALIAN MANUSCRIPT PAINTING OF THE MIDDLE AGES AND THE RENAISSANCE' -- Medieval manuscript illumination turns out to be some of the most formally exciting and wildly imaginative painting of all time. This exhibition will present more than 100 examples from a collection formed by Robert Lehman. Metropolitan Museum. Sept. 30-Feb. 1. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

'THE INVISIBLE THREAD: BUDDHIST SPIRIT IN CONTEMPORARY ART' -- Buddhism, in its low-key way, has thoroughly penetrated American culture and you don't have to look far to find Western artists inspired by its precepts. Part of a larger, multivenue enterprise called "The Buddhism Project," this show explores the
--Buddhist effect on artists from John Cage and Agnes Martin to Bill Viola and Tom Friedman. Newhouse Center for Contemporary Art, Snug Harbor Cultural Center, Staten Island, N.Y.Sept. 28-Feb. 29. (718) 448-2500. www.snug
-harbor.org

October

'PICASSO: THE CUBIST PORTRAITS OF FERNANDE OLIVIER' -- In 1909 when he was plunging into Cubism, Picasso made many paintings and drawings of his then companion Fernande Olivier. This exhibition gathers together 60 of these works and a bronze head. National Gallery, Washington. Oct. 1-Jan 18 (202-737-4215). www.nga.gov. Traveling to the Nasher Sculpture Center, Dallas, Feb. 15-May 9.

'GLOBAL VILLAGE: THE 60'S' -- Creative imagination flourished on so many fronts and to such exhilarating, revolutionary and bewildering effect during the 60's that we are still wondering what happened. This cross-disciplinary show of more than 250 items representing the fields of art (including Pop, Minimalism and Conceptualism), design, photography, fashion and architecture should contribute substantially to the ongoing process of sorting, remembering and interpreting. Montreal Museum of Fine Arts. Oct. 2-Jan. 18. (514) 285-1600. www.mbam.qc.ca

'BESIDE THE ROSE: SELECTED WORKS BY JAY DeFEO' -- DeFeo (1929-89) is famous for one extraordinary painting, "The Rose," a massive, radiating mandala that looks as if it were cast in concrete, and which took seven years to finish. This exhibition surrounds "The Rose" with 25 of Defeo's other paintings, drawings and photomontages. Whitney Museum of American Art. Oct. 2- Feb. 29. (800) 944-8639. www.whitney.org

'THE JEWISH JOURNEY: FREDERIC BRENNER'S PHOTOGRAPHIC ODYSSEY' -- The photographer and anthropologist Frederic Brenner spent a quarter century documenting the lives of Jews on five continents. Subjects in this 150-picture show range from Ethiopian villagers to leather-clad motorcyclists in Florida. Brooklyn Museum of Art. Oct. 3-Jan. 11. (718) 638-5000. www.brooklynart.org

'RUSSIA ENGAGES THE WORLD, 1453-1825' -- This major study of Russia's emerging interaction with Europe, Asia and the Americas over the course of almost four centuries will consist of some 230 works on paper from New York Public Library collections, including illuminated manuscripts, printed books, woodcuts, engravings, watercolors and maps. New York Public Library. Oct. 3-Jan. 31. (212) 869-8089. www.nypl.org

SHIRIN NESHAT -- Appearing in the late 1990's, Ms. Neshat's cinematically lush, multiscreen video installations, in which Middle Eastern women and men engaged in curious, symbolically suggestive group actions, were a revelation and prompted extraordinarily high praise from some critics. This midcareer survey was organized by the Musee d'Art Contemporain de Montreal. Contemporary Arts Museum, Houston. Oct. 4-Nov. 20. (713) 284-8250. www.camh.org

'EL GRECO TO PICASSO: PAINTINGS FROM THE PHILLIPS COLLECTION' -- While undergoing renovation, the Phillips Collection in Washington, a great repository of European art, is sending 53 of its most prized possessions out into the world, including major works by Cezanne, van Gogh, Renoir and Picasso. Denver Art Museum. Oct. 4-Jan. 4. (720) 865-5000. www.denverartmuseum.org.

'LEE BONTECOU' -- In the 1960's Lee Bontecou made a big splash with relief sculptures, made of metal rods and drably-colored canvas, that looked like abstracted monsters. Then she abruptly dropped out of the art world. She didn't stop making art, though. This retrospective presents 50 sculptures and 75 drawings produced since 1958. U.C.L.A. Hammer Museum, Los Angeles. Oct. 4-Jan 12 (310-443-7000). www.hammer.ucla.edu. Traveling to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, Feb. 23-May 24, and the Museum of Modern Art, Queens, July 28-Sept. 27.

'SAMUEL MOCKBEE' -- A MacArthur Fellowship winner, Mockbee, who died in 2001, founded the Rural Studio, a program at Auburn University in Alabama that had young architecture students designing and building livable and aesthetically interesting houses from found and recycled materials for poor people in the area. This exhibition includes prototypes and models generated by the Rural Studio, paintings by Mockbee and photographs of projects finished since 1992. Birmingham Museum of Art. Oct. 5-Jan. 4. (205) 254-2566. www.artsbma.org

'EL GRECO' -- One of the strangest and most compelling painters of a time that abounded in strange and compelling painters was Domenikos Theotocopoulos (1541-1614), better known as El Greco. This major retrospective will present some 80 works whose weirdly sinuous figures and dreamy landscapes exude a visionary expressionist mood that appeals greatly to today's viewers. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 7-Jan. 11. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

'THE DRAWINGS OF FRANCOIS BOUCHER' -- An exhibition of 75 drawings celebrates the 300th birthday of the skillful and sweetly lubricious French Rococo master. Frick Collection, New York. Oct. 8-Dec. 14 (212-288-0700). www.frick.org. Traveling to the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Jan. 17- April 18.

'HUDSON RIVER SCHOOL VISIONS: THE LANDSCAPES OF SANFORD R. GIFFORD' -- This Hudson River School painter didn't go in for theatrical pyrotechnics like those of Albert Bierstadt and Frederic Church. But he certainly had a way with sunlight and air, and his paintings, 70 of which will be featured in this exhibition, are irradiated with Emersonian soulfulness. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 8-Feb. 8. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

'FROM BAJA TO VANCOUVER' -- Twenty-five contemporary West Coast artists, including the conceptualist filmmaker Stan Douglas, the slacker cartoonist Chris Johanson and the collaborative team Torolab, observe their regional landscape from a wide-ranging variety of perspectives. Seattle Art Museum. Oct. 9-Jan. 4. (206) 654-3100. www.seattleartmuseum
.org.

'WHITE: WHITENESS AND RACE IN CONTEMPORARY ART' -- Organized by the writer and curator Maurice Berger, this exhibition will explore perceptions of people not usually defined in racial terms -- Caucasians. Works by Nayland Blake, William Kentridge, Mike Kelley, Cindy Sherman and others will contribute what could be an intellectually and sociologically provocative event. UMBC Center for Art and Visual Culture, Baltimore. Oct. 9-Jan. 10. (410) 455-2787.
www.umbc.edu/arts

'ISAMU NOGUCHI AND MODERN JAPANESE CERAMICS' -- Noguchi was one of the most restlessly inventive of all 20th-century American sculptors and a designer of extraordinary elegance. During three midcentury trips to Japan (1931, 1950 and 1952) he produced a body of ceramic sculpture that has not been seen in the United States since 1954. This show will present a selection of those works along with ceramic sculptures by Japanese artists with whom he worked and exchanged ideas. Japan Society, New York. Oct. 9-Jan. 11. (212) 715-1255. www
.japansociety.org

'TRISHA BROWN: DANCE AND ART IN DIALOGUE' -- The 1960's was fertile decade for all kinds of experimental, interdisciplinary activities and the choreographer Trisha Brown was at its center. Under the auspices of the legendary Judson Dance Theater, she collaborated with the artists Robert Rauschenberg and Robert Whitman, the musician John Cage and dancers like Yvonne Rainer, Steve Paxton and Simone Forti. In the ensuing years she worked with Donald Judd, Nancy Graves and Terry Winters, among others. This four-decade survey of her career should be a fascinating exercise in cultural history. New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York, Oct. 10-Jan. 25. (212) 219-1222. www.newmuseum.org

'THE LAST PICTURE SHOW: ARTISTS USING PHOTOGRAPHY, 1960-1982' -- The 90's was a boom decade for using photography in art, but, as this exhibition organized by the Walker Art Center associate curator Douglas Fogle will show, artists were toying with photography to diverse conceptual ends decades earlier. More than 50 artists will be represented, including John Baldessari, Bernd and Hilla Becher, Barbara Kruger, Adrian Piper, Richard Prince, Ed Ruscha, Cindy Sherman, Jeff Wall and, of course, the posthumously ubiquitous Andy Warhol. Walker Art Center, Minneapolis. Oct. 11-Jan. 4. (612) 375-7600. www.walkerart.org

'THE CENTAUR'S SMILE: THE HUMAN ANIMAL IN EARLY GREEK ART' -- The animal-man combination captivated the imaginations of early Greek artists, and this exhibition will gather together a whole menagerie of such creatures -- centaurs, satyrs, sphinxes, gorgons -- rendered in bronze, gold, engraved gems and painted pottery between 750 and 450 B.C. Princeton University Art Museum. Oct. 11-Jan. 18 (609-258-3788). www
.princetonartmuseum.org. Traveling to the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, Feb. 22-May 16.

'THE AGE OF WATTEAU, CHARDIN AND FRAGONARD: MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH GENRE PAINTING' -- Once big history paintings got all the respect. Today it's easier to appreciate minor stories of domestic and social life as painted by Watteau, Boucher, Greuze and Chardin, who will be included in this extensive survey of 18th-century French genre painting. National Gallery, Washington. Oct. 12-Jan. 11. (212) 737-4215. www.nga.gov

'WORK ETHIC' -- The curator Helen Molesworth has conceived an exhibition that asks the question: in an age when traditional craft skills are generally underused, what is the nature of artistic work? Nearly 80 objects representing a broad spectrum of approaches to artmaking -- including Pop Art, Conceptual Art, Process Art, Performance Art and much more should afford a fine occasion to ponder the issue. Baltimore Museum of Art. Oct. 12-Jan. 4. (410) 396-7100. www .artbma.org

'PAINTED PRAYERS: MEDIEVAL AND RENAISSANCE BOOKS OF HOURS FROM THE MORGAN LIBRARY' -- More popular than the Bible, illustrated books of hours -- prayer books -- were everywhere in 13th to mid-16th century Europe and their pages bore some of that period's most wonderful painting and printmaking. The selection of 58 books and manuscripts was organized and sent out by the Morgan Library in New York. Kimbell Art Museum. Oct. 12-Jan. 18. (817) 332-8451. www.kimbellart.org

'BLACK BELT' -- It is an article of faith among many art-world thinkers that answers to all kinds of human problems can be found in popular culture. The global phenomenon of Asian martial-arts entertainment is the window through which this cleverly titled, 22-artist show -- organized by the museum's curator Christine Y. Kim -- will explore relations between African-American and Asian-American cultures. Studio Museum in Harlem. Oct. 15-Jan. 4. (212) 864-4500. www.studiomuseum.org

'HUNT FOR PARADISE: COURT ARTS OF IRAN 1501-1576' -- Carpets, ceramics, lacquerware, metal works and books from the Safavid era (1502-1737), a time of great prosperity that saw Iran unified for the first time in a millennium. Asia Society, New York. Oct. 16-Jan. 18. (212) 288-6400. www.asiasociety.org

'GERMAN ART NOW' -- Hard to believe today, but 15 years ago some people thought German art was going to take over the world. This survey of paintings, sculpture and photographs from the last 40 years by artists like Joseph Beuys, Georg Baselitz, Markus Lupertz, Gerhard Richter and others will afford an opportunity to ponder what it was all about. St. Louis Art Museum, Oct. 17-Jan. 11. (314) 721-0072. www.slam.org

JAMES ROSENQUIST -- Though Mr. Rosenquist's Pop Art never had as big a public presence as Warhol's or Lichtenstein's, it has been deeply influential and seriously admired for its richly allusive take on our collective mindscape. His first retrospective since 1972 is one of the contemporary-art world's most anticipated events. Guggenheim Museum, New York. Oct. 17-Jan. 25. (212) 423-3500. www
.guggenheim.org

'PETRA: LOST CITY OF STONE' -- The ancient city of Petra, carved from red sandstone cliffs in a desert area of southern Jordan over 2000 years ago, remains one of the wonders of the ancient world. This major exhibition will include sculpture, architectural elements and documentary photographs as well as works by 19th-century artists like Frederic Church and Edward Lear for whom Petra was a romantic mecca. The show is co-organized by the American Museum of Natural History and the Cincinnati Art Museum, where it will be seen after its debut in New York. American Museum of Natural History. Oct. 18-July 6. (212) 769-5100. www.amnh.org

NASHER SCULPTURE CENTER -- In a new Renzo Piano building that occupies a city block in downtown Dallas, this institution -- said to be the first in the world devoted exclusively to modern sculpture -- will present the Raymond D. and Patsy Nasher collection, which includes works by artists from Rodin and Degas to Serra and Koons. Nasher Sculpture Center, Dallas. Opening on Oct. 19, permanent. (214-242-5100). www
.nashersculpturecenter.org

'MANET AND THE SEA' -- Though nearly extinct now, maritime painting was still alive and well in the years from 1864 to 1881, the focus of this exhibition. The first show devoted to Manet's seascapes will also include paintings by Courbet, Delacroix, Whistler, Monet, Renoir and Morisot. Art Institute of Chicago, Oct. 20-Jan. 19, (312) 443-3600. www.artic.edu. Traveling to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Feb. 8-May 9.

'JULIA MARGARET CAMERON, PHOTOGRAPHER' -- Cameron was an eminent Victorian and one of the most important artists in the history of photography. Her career is surveyed in 110 photographs drawn from European and American collections. J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles. Oct. 21-Jan. 11. (310) 440-7300. www.getty.edu

'A PRIVATE PASSION: 19TH-CENTURY PAINTINGS AND DRAWINGS FROM THE GRENVILLE L. WINTHROP COLLECTION, HARVARD UNIVERSITY' -- This legendary collection includes works by the French painters David, Ingres and Gericault; English symbolists like Blake, Rossetti and Burne-Jones; and the Americans Whistler, Homer and Sargent. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 23-Jan. 25. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

'SCHOENBERG, KANDINSKY AND THE BLUE RIDER' -- The friendship and mutually inspiring intellectual dialogue between Wassily Kandinsky, the abstract painter, and Arnold Schoenberg, the avant-garde composer, is the center of a show designed to illuminate a time of radical transformation in art and music. Among 65 paintings will be major works by Kandinsky, paintings by Schoenberg -- exhibited in the United States for the first time -- and works by German Expressionist members of the Blue Rider group. Jewish Museum, New York. Oct. 24-Feb. 12. (212) 423-3200. www.jewishmuseum.org

'DIANE ARBUS' -- Armed with a magically empathetic ability to reveal the vulnerable human hiding behind masks of freakish eccentricity, Arbus made some of the 20th century's most unforgettable photographs. More than 200 pictures will be presented in this retrospective organized by Sandra Phillips of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and a guest curator, Elisabeth Sussman. San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Oct. 25-Feb. 8. (415) 357-4000. www.sfmoma.org

KERRY JAMES MARSHAL, 'ONE TRUE THING: MEDITATIONS ON BLACK AESTHETICS' -- With dauntless ambition, Mr. Marshall combines formally and technically inventive painting and unpredictable sociological commentary. This major exhibition will present works from the last five years, including sculpture, photography and video as well as large scale paintings. Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, Oct. 25-Jan. 18. (312) 280-2660. www.mcachicago.org

'JASPER JOHNS: NUMBERS' -- It's hard to believe that until now no one has produced an exhibition devoted to Mr. Johns's play with numbers. Cleveland Museum of Art. Oct. 26-Jan. 11 (888-261-0033). www.clevelandart.org. Traveling to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Feb. 1- April 18.

'REMBRANDT'S JOURNEY: PAINTER, DRAFTSMAN, ETCHER' -- Emphasizing the Dutch master's command of many different mediums and genres, this blockbuster will present more than 200 works, including paintings, drawings and prints. Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Oct. 26-Jan. 18. (617) 267-9300. www.mfa.org

'PHILLIP GUSTON' -- By the time he started producing the visceral, cartoonish narratives that so influenced generations of post-60's painters, Guston could look back on at least three long and distinguished careers: as a social allegorist in the 30's, a lyrical Abstract Expressionist in the 50's and a painter of gray, suavely blunt abstractions in the 60's. His trajectory will be traced in an exhibition of 80 paintings and drawings. Metropolitan Museum. Oct. 28-Jan. 4. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

'VALESKA SOARES: FOLLIES' --Time, desire, intoxication and transgression are the themes of an artist whose work in photography, installation, sculpture and video is considered in a 10-year survey. Bronx Museum of Art. Oct. 30-Feb. 22. (718) 681-6000. www.bxma.org

'MARK LOMBARDI' -- When Lombardi died in 2000, he was at the top of his game, producing beautiful, expansive drawings that diagrammed mysterious and insidious global connections among a bewildering array of politicians, military men and business people. Twenty-five large-scale works will be featured in this retrospective. Drawing Center, New York. Oct. 31-Dec. 20. (212) 219-2166. www.drawingcenter.org

November

'GLASS AND GLAMOUR: STEUBEN'S MODERN MOMENT IN NEW YORK, 1930-1960' -- More than just a show of luxurious decorative objects, this exhibition will frame Steuben's famously elegant glassware in the context of a midcentury moment when belief in the possibilities of modernity reached its high-water mark. Organized by Donald Albrecht, the exhibitions curator of the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design , it will include 200 crystal pieces as well as drawings, books and catalogs. Museum of the City of New York. Nov. 7-April 25. (212) 534-1672. www.mcny.org

'PAST THINGS AND PRESENT: JASPER JOHNS SINCE 1983' -- Mr. Johns secured a permanent niche in art history for his proto-Pop works of the 50's and 60's.
--Whether his more recent work is as important has been a matter of continuing debate, for which this exhibition of more than 80 paintings, prints and drawings will provide rich fodder. Organized by the Walker's curator of permanent collections, Joan Rothfuss. Walker Art Center, Minneapolis. Nov. 9-Feb. 14. (612) 375-7600. www.walkerart.org

'UNREPENTANT EGO: THE SELF-PORTRAITS OF LUCAS SAMARAS' -- A perfect title for a retrospective of this maverick painter, sculptor and photographer, who has made himself a continuing subject for his wildly diverse and marvelously inventive work in painting, sculpture, installation, film and photography. The show will include more than 300 works dating from the 1950's to the present. Whitney Museum. Nov. 13-Feb. 8. (800) 944-8639. www.whitney.org

'JOAN JONAS: PERFORMANCE INSTALLATIONS 1976-2003' -- Surprisingly, considering her influence as a performance and video artist, this is Ms. Jonas's first major museum exhibition. It will include photographs, video, drawings and three installations not previously seen in the United States. Queens Museum of Art. Nov. 16-Feb. 1. (718) 592-9700. www.queensmuseu.org

'ARSHILE GORKY DRAWINGS' -- When it came to drawing in the nascent years of Abstract Expressionism, Gorky's only rival was de Kooning. This selection of 140 drawings, from Ingre-esque portraits to dreamy abstractions, should be a do-not-miss show. Whitney Museum. Nov. 20-Feb. 15. (800) 944-8639. www.whitney.org
JOHN CURRIN -- -- Mr. Currin was among the young artists who made the human figure safe for sophisticated painters to deal with. His sexy and grotesque images of women have provoked and antagonized people on a lot of different fronts. This 40-painting survey, organized by the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago and the Serpentine Gallery in London, affords a timely occasion to assess the achievement and influence of a still young and restless career. Whitney Museum. Nov. 20-Feb. 22. (800) 944-8639. www.whitney.org

'VERROCCHIO'S DAVID RESTORED' -- A famous Renaissance sculpture, Andrea del Verrocchio's bronze David, having recently undergone restoration, is coming to the United States for the first time. The David is thought to be a portrait of Leonardo da Vinci, Verrocchio's student. The presentation, which includes much information about technical issues of conservation, was organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta and the National Museum of the Bargello in Florence. High Museum. Nov. 15-Feb. 8 (404-733-4400). www.high.org. Traveling to the National Gallery, Washington, Feb. 13-March 21.

'MR. WHISTLER'S GALLERIES' -- Not only a great painter and printmaker, James McNeill Whistler was also an accomplished interior designer. In collaboration with the Virginia Museum of Fine Art, the Freer is organizing an exhibition about Whistler's exhibition and gallery design by recreating "Arrangement in Yellow and White," his design for a show of 51 of his etchings, and "Arrangement in Flesh Color and Grey," a show of 67 paintings, watercolors and pastels. Freer Gallery of Art, Washington. Nov. 20-April 4. (202) 633-4880. www.asia.si.edu

'WORSHIPPING THE ANCESTORS: CHINESE COMMEMORATIVE PORTRAITS --' This is the first major exhibition to study Chinese ancestor portraits as artworks and as objects of worship. Thirty-five of these highly wrought, near-life-size works owned by the Sackler will be featured along with textiles, furniture and other related objects dating from 1451 to 1943. Santa Barbara Museum of Art. Nov. 22-Feb. 15. (805) 963-4364. www
.sbmuseart.org

'CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS: POLITICS AND U.S. ART OF THE 1980's' -- The 80's were a wildly contentious and, for art, an enormously fertile decade. This 55-artist exhibition will include political activist groups like ABC No Rio and Gran Fury and individual artists ranging from the neo-feminist Barbara Kruger to the neo-Pop artist Jeff Koons. Cincinnati Contemporary Arts Center. Nov. 22-Nov. 21, 2004. (513) 345-8400. www
.contemporaryartscenter.org

DAVID IRELAND -- One of the most intriguingly off-beat sculptors and conceptualists of the last three decades has his first retrospective. His best work is his own house, a live-in environmental sculpture in San Francisco. This 90-piece show will explore his play with homely materials and quirky processes. Oakland Museum of California. Nov. 22-March 14. (510) 238-2200. www.museumca.org

'CHRISTOFFER WILHELM ECKERSBERG, 1783-1853' -- Fans of 19th-century Danish painting -- something that deserves to be better known -- will not want to miss this 50-piece selection of works by one of its most influential figures. National Gallery, Washington. Nov. 23-Feb. 29. (202) 737-4215. www.nga.gov

December

RICHARD ARTSCHWAGER: 'PAINTING THEN AND NOW --' This exhibition examines the painting of one of the more intriguingly idiosyncratic and influential sculptors of the last four decades. Organized by the museum's director, Bonnie Clearwater, and coinciding with the artist's 80th birthday, it will focus on portraiture, architecture, landscape and current affairs derived from photographs and made on Celotex, a textured commercial building material that evocatively blurs the imagery. Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami, Fla. Dec. 3-Feb. 15. (305) 893-6211. www
.mocanomi.org

ART BASEL MIAMI BEACH -- A lot of people who attended this huge international art fair last year had a great time. The American sister of the preeminent annual fair Art Basel in Switzerland will have, in addition to a great location, 160 dealers from five continents displaying 20th- and 21st-century art. Miami Beach Convention Center. Dec. 4-7.
www.artbasel.com

'ONLY SKIN DEEP: CHANGING VISIONS OF THE AMERICAN SELF' -- This major survey ofcontemporary and historical pictures explores how photography affects what and who we think we are as individuals and as members of different social groups. International Center for Photography, Dec. 12-Feb. 29. (212) 857-0000. www.icp.org

NEO RAUCH -- The jury may still be out on this East German-born painter, but the introduction of his Surrealistic Social Realism to New York a few years ago revealed a world gone awry, rendered in an illustrational style with muted and nostalgic colors. This is his first solo show in an American museum. St. Louis Art Museum. Dec. 12-Feb. 15. (314) 721-0072. www.slam.org

ANN HAMILTON -- This installation, involving sound and ceiling-mounted suction machines that pick up and drop pieces of paper, was first produced in New York at the Sean Kelly Gallery. Now Ms. Hamilton will expand and adapt it to fit a football-field-scale gallery in one of the spacious antique factory buildings occupied by MassMoCA. Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, North Adams. Dec. 13 through the fall of 2004. (413) 664-4481. www.massmoca.org

2004

'CHAKAIA BOOKER: JERSEY RIDE' -- Ms. Booker, who is from New Jersey, is known for massive, abstract sculptures made from cut-up tires. Her industrial-strength visual poetry will be explored in this midcareer retrospective. Jersey City Museum. Jan. 28-June 13. (201) 413-0303. www.jerseycitymuseum.org

'DIANE ARBUS: FAMILY ALBUMS' -- Here's an interesting approach to one of photography's loneliest artists: images of families or familial groups. No one achieved the kind of unflinching human intimacy that Arbus did, and her collective portrait of the American family, to be represented here in 90 pictures selected by the curators John Pultz and Anthony Lee. Grey Art Gallery, New York, Jan. 13-March 27. (212) 998-6780. www.nyu.edu
/greyart

'THE JAMES VANDERZEE STUDIO' -- The de facto official photographer of the Harlem Renaissance, VanDerZee (1886-1983) set himself up as a commercial portrait photographer in 1916 and continued to ply his trade for the next 75 years, chronicling the lives of Harlemites with style, dignity, humor and humanity. This exhibition will present about 85 prints from a trove of inestimable sociological, historical and photographic value. Art Institute of Chicago, Jan. 14-April 25. (312) 443-3600. www.artic.edu/aic

'WILLIAM POPE.L, e-RACISM' -- Of artists who make art about race, Mr. Pope.L is one of the most unpredictable and provocative. His traveling, 25-year retrospective finally comes to New York. Artists Space. Jan. 14-Feb. 28. (212) 226-3970. www.artistsspace.org

'MADE IN MEXICO/HECHO EN MEXICO' -- An increasingly vital incubator of contemporary art, among other things, Mexico as an idea and as a place will be explored by 20 contemporary artists, not all of whom are Mexican. Participants will include Francis Alys, Andrea Fraser, Andreas Gursky, Mona Hatoum and Gabriel Orozco. Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston. Jan. 21-May 9. (617) 266-5152. www.icaboston.org

ANT FARM -- This legendary architectural collaborative produced some still-famous works in the 1970's, including "Cadillac Ranch" in Amarillo, Tex., and "Media Burn," a video of a car crashing through a pyramid of flaming television sets. The primary members, Chip Lord, Curtis Schreier and Doug Michels, produced lots more subversive and experimental work between 1968 and 1978, 100 examples of which will be presented in this exhibition. Berkeley Art Museum, in California. Jan. 21-April 26. (510) 642-0808. www.bampfa.berkeley.edu

JORG IMMENDORFF-- With his over-the-top cartoonish narratives allegorizing modern life, art and politics, Mr. Immendorff was one of the most interesting of the German painters to revive Expressionist painting in the 1970's and 80's. This exhibition will present 70 drawings, paintings and performance-related objects produced over the last four decades. Goldie Paley Gallery, Moore College of Art and Design, Philadelphia. Jan. 23-March 21. (215) 965-4045. www.thegalleriesatmoore.org

YUN-FEI JI -- Under cover of traditional Chinese landscape painting, Yun-Fei Ji creates episodic, Goyaesque narratives about globalism and its corrosive effects. Contemporary Art Museum, St. Louis. Jan. 23-March 27. (314) 535-4660. www.contemporarystl.org

'PLAYING WITH FIRE: EUROPEAN TERRA-COTTA MODELS, 1740-1840' -- Terra-cotta clay has been a major sculptural medium for millenniums but perhaps never used to greater artistic effect than in the hands of Neo-Classical sculptors in Europe. Including sketchy studies and fully finished models, the 135 works in this exhibition range from realistic portraiture to mythic tableau. Metropolitan Museum. Jan. 28-April 25. (212) 879-5500. www
.metmuseum.org

'J.F.K. AND ART' -- John F. Kennedy excited Americans' collective imagination to an extraordinary extent, and artists were not immune to his allure. This exhibition of art about him and his life and times will include works by Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Larry Rivers, James Rosenquist, Andy Warhol, Elaine de Kooning and others. The show is organized by the Bruce Museum of Arts and Science, Greenwich, Conn., and the Norton Museum of Art, Palm Beach, Fla., where it will be on view Feb. 6-May 2. (561) 832-5196. www.norton.org

'JOHN WATERS: CHANGE OF LIFE' -- The celebrated creator of ironically trashy movies like "Pink Flamingos" and "Hairspray" has been producing photographs over the last 10 years. Along with 75 of his still pictures, this show will present objects, scrapbooks, movie props and other materials that the artist has collected. In addition, three of his earliest films will be shown publicly for the first time. New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York. Feb. 8-April 15. (212) 219-1222. www.newmuseum.org

'ART OF THE LEGA: MEANING AND METAPHOR IN CENTRAL AFRICA' --This exhibition will present 125 symbolic objects from the centuries-old Lega culture, which flourished in what is now known as Congo. Metropolitan Museum. Feb. 10-Sept. 5. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org

RICHARD HAMILTON -- The artist who created the collage thought by many to have launched Pop Art, "Just what is it that makes today's homes so different, so appealing?," has been exploring print-making and multiple-making techniques since his first etching in 1939. This retrospective, organized by the Kunstmuseum in Winterthur, Switzerland, will present about 150 examples of his work in all kinds of reproductive media. Yale Center for British Art, New Haven. Feb. 12-May 24. (203) 432-2800. www.yale.edu/ycba

'TIME STANDS STILL: EADWEARD MUYBRIDGE AND THE INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY MOVEMENT' -- Muybridge's stop-action photographs hugely influenced not only 20th-century photography but modern painting, too, as artists from Thomas Eakins to Francis Bacon found inspiration in its scientific revelations about human and animal motion, its gridded, serial order and its proto-Surrealistic weirdness. This major survey will include photographs, equipment, drawings and ephemera. Cleveland Museum of Art. Feb. 15-May 16. (888) 262-0033. www.clemusart.com

'PARADISE NOW? CONTEMPORARY ART FROM THE PACIFIC ISLANDS' -- Sure to be informative, at least, this exhibition will present paintings, videos and photographs by 15 artists from New Zealand, Samoa, Fiji, Noumea and other islands in the Pacific Ocean. Asia Society, New York. Feb. 18-May 9. (212) 288-6400. www.asiasociety.org

'TOOLS OF HER MINISTRY: THE ART OF SISTER GERTRUDE MORGAN' -- Sister Gertrude Morgan (1900-80), an Alabama street missionary and self-taught painter, is featured in a show of almost 100 divinely inspired paintings, drawings and decorated objects. American Folk Art Museum, Feb. 24-Sept. 26. (212) 265-1040. www.folkartmuseum.org.

'GAUGUIN: TAHITI' -- Commemorating Paul Gauguin's death in 1903, this show will present more than 150 works, including paintings, sculpture, prints and drawings, with the mysterious allegory "Where do we come from? What are we? Where are we going?" at its center. Gauguin has been chastised for his real-life behavior in the South Pacific, but his suave modern primitivism still casts a spell. The show is organized by the Grand Palais, Paris, and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, where it will be on view Feb. 29-May 20. (617) 267-9300. www.mfa.org

'DOUG & MIKE STARN' -- Collaborators and identical twins, the Starns electrified the art world in the 1980's with their sprawling, elegantly distressed, romantically over-the-top photographic collages. This overview of their career will include videos, books and installations, too. Neuberger Museum of Art, Purchase, N.Y. March 7-Aug. 8. (914) 251-6100.
www.neuberger.org

WHITNEY BIENNIAL -- Although it is invariably savaged, no one interested in contemporary art wants to miss the Whitney's biennial survey of what's hot in American art, and almost all artists wish they could be in it. This year it's being organized by three Whitney curators, Chrissie Iles, Shamin Momin and Debra Singer. Whitney Museum of American Art. March 11-May 30. (800) 944-8639. www.whitney.org

'ROTH TIME: A DIETER ROTH RETROSPECTIVE' -- Over the course of his 50-year career, this influential German artist has incorporated all kinds of detritus into some of the messiest and most expansive assemblages and installations of all time. This will be the first major museum survey of his work in two decades. Museum of Modern Art, Queens. March 11-June 7. (212) 708-9400. www.moma.org

'GUSTAV KLUTSIS AND VALENTINA KULAGINA: BETWEEN THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE' -- During the heady early years of the Soviet Union, these married collaborators produced formally and politically revolutionary photographs, graphics, montages, exhibition designs and posters. The show will be the first presentation of their works in an American museum. International Center of Photography. March 12-May 30. (212) 857-0000. www.icp.org

'MEDIA JAM BIENNIAL' -- This new biennial will survey what's hot in video and other digitally based media, a field that continues to expand explosively. An international panel of curators will select more than 30 artists from five continents. Palm Beach Institute of Contemporary Art, March 13-Aug. 15. (561) 582-0006. www.palmbeachica.org.

'BYZANTIUM: FAITH AND POWER (1261-1557)' -- Gathering together artworks and objects from around the world, this major exhibition exploring the art and culture of the Christian empire centered in Constantinople is sure to be spectacular. Metropolitan Museum. March 23-July 4. (212) 535-7710. www.metmuseum.org.

'RODNEY GRAHAM: A LITTLE THOUGHT' -- One of Canada's most unpredictable, amusing and thought-provoking conceptualists hasa 25-year retrospective of film, video and sound works. Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto. March 24-June 20. (416) 979-6648. www.ago.net

RALPH GOINGS -- With his coolly nostalgic paintings of diners, trailers and restaurant still-lifes lovingly copied from photographs, Mr. Goings has been a most appealing product of the Photorealist movement. This show surveys his 50-year career. Butler Institute of American Art, Youngstown, Ohio. March 28-June 6. (330) 743-1711. www.butlerart.com

'BONJOUR MONSIEUR COURBET!' -- This exhibition revolves around a famous painting by Gustave Courbet that shows an outdoor encounter between the painter and his patron, the wealthy collector Alfred Bruyas. In mid- 19th century, Bruyas acquired important works by Delacroix, Millet, Cabanel, Rousseau and others, and his collection eventually fell into the hands of the Musee Fabre in Montpellier, France, from which this show was drawn. Virginia Museum of Fine Art, Richmond. March 27-June 13 (804-340-1400). www.vmfa.state.va.us. Traveling to the Clark Art Institute, Williamstown, Mass., June 27-Sept. 6.

'PAINTING A NEW WORLD: MEXICAN ART, 1521-1821' -- This ambitious undertaking organized by the Denver Art Museum in consultation with a team of Mexican scholars will bring together 60 Mexican paintings variously reflecting Aztec, Asian and Spanish influences that have shaped Mexican culture and identity. Denver Art Museum, April 3-July 25. (720) 865-5000. www.denverartmuseum.org.

'JAPAN, PARIS AND THE IMPRESSIONIST ERA' -- Given its geographical location and place in history, Honolulu seems like a good place to put on an exhibition about cross-cultural artistic relations between Japan and France in the early Modernist era. It's well known that the Impressionists and Post Impressionists were captivated by Japanese art and design. That Japanese collectors brought modern European paintings back to their own homes is perhaps less familiar. Drawn entirely from Japanese collections, it will include works by Monet, Renoir, Cezanne, Picasso, Matisse and other European Modernists as well as Japanese artists who were influenced by Western styles. Honolulu Academy of Arts. April 8- June 6. (808) 532-8700.
www.honoluluacademy.org

WORLDSCAPES: THE ART OF ERRO -- -- This celebrated Icelandic painter creates congested, high-low pastiches of styles and pop iconography to stir up thought about modern life and politics. Seventy paintings from the Reykjavik Art Museum make up his first major American exhibition. Grey Art Gallery. April 13-July 17. (212) 988-6780. www.nyu.edu
/greyart

'JEAN COCTEAU, UNIVERSAL CREATOR' -- Cocteau was the ultimate dilettante. Over the course of his 50-year career as a writer, poet, filmmaker, draftsman, painter, set designer, choreographer, photographer and playwright, he produced more than a few memorable things. This survey will include paintings and drawings, stage sets and a film festival. Montreal Museum of Fine Arts. April 15-Aug. 29. (514) 285-1600. www.mbam.qc.ca

'OPEN HOUSE: WORKING IN BROOKLYN' -- Timed to coincide with the reopening of the Brooklyn Museum's newly redesigned front plaza and entrance, this exhibition is being billed as the first comprehensive survey of the Brooklyn art scene. Given the depth and extent of the borough's pool of international talent -- possibly unrivaled in all contemporary art -- it should be an exciting and informative show. Brooklyn Museum, April 16-Aug. 15. (718) 638-5000. www
.brooklynart.org

'BODILY SPACE: FIGURATIVE SCULPTURE TODAY' -- In light of the energy that some of today's most interesting sculptors have invested in the human figure, this show should be something to look forward to. Participants will include Antony Gormley, Tom Friedman, Robert Gober, Ron Mueck, Maurizio Cattelan, Charles Ray and Duane Hanson, among others. It coincides with an exhibition of 70 bronzes by Rodin ("Rodin: A Magnificent Obsession") and is organized by Claire Schneider and Holly Hughes, both curators at the museum. Albright-Knox, Buffalo. April 17-Sept. 7, 2004. (716) 882-8700. www.albrightknox.org.

'THE BIG NOTHING' -- One of modern art's greatest strengths is its negativity. Led by the Institute of Contemporary Art, this event will include a number of other Philadelphia museums and galleries to celebrate collectively emptiness, withdrawal, intransigence, silence, ineffability and other artistic forms of refusing to look on the bright side. Works by father figures like Mondrian, Duchamp, Rothko and Warhol and contemporary artists like Robert Ryman, Robert Gober, Sherrie Levine and Jeff Koons will be included. Philadelphia Institute of Contemporary Art. May 1-Aug. 1. (215) 898-5911. www.icaphila.org

MODIGLIANI -- One of the 20th century's most admired and beloved figures gets his first major exhibition in New York since 1951. Jewish Museum, New York. May 21-Sept. 19, 2004. (212) 423-3200). www.jewishmuseum.org

'FROM VAN GOGH TO MONDRIAN: MODERN ART FROM THE KROLLER-MULLER MUSEUM' -- Works by Seurat, Picasso, Mondrian and Van Gogh -- many not previously exhibited in the United States -- will be among approximately 75 pieces from the collection of a Dutch museum that is said to own the best collection of van Gogh's work outside the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. The exhibition was organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, where it will go after its stay at the Seattle Art Museum, May 29-Sept. 12, 2004. (206) 654-3100. www.seattleartmuseum.org

NEW PHOTOGRAPHY FROM CHINA -- This survey of contemporary Chinese photography and video organized by the I.C.P.'s senior curator, Christopher Phillips, and the University of Chicago art professor Wu Hung could be one of the year's most informative exhibitions. Around 150 pieces by 50 artists will include multimedia installations, photographs of performances and photo-based works in nonphotographic media. International Center of Photography. June 11-Sept. 5. (212) 857-0000. www.icp.org

'BEYOND GEOMETRY: EXPERIMENTS IN FORM, 1940's to 1970's' -- This ambitious exhibition, organized by Lynn Zelevansky, will explore the emergence of styles of radical simplification in the United States, Europe and South American. About 180 works by more than 100 artists will represent a panoply of movements, including Concrete Art, Kinetic and Op Art, Minimalism, Process and Conceptual art and trends associated with particular countries like Argentine Arte Madi and Brazilian Neo-Concretism. Parallel developments in poetry, music, dance and film will also be considered. Los Angeles County Museum of Art, June 13-Oct. 10, 2004. (323) 857-6000. www.lacma.org

SEURAT AND THE MAKING OF LA GRANDE JATTE -- -- One of the most beautiful and strange paintings in the history of modern art and one of the Art Institute of Chicago's most cherished possessions, Georges Seurat's Pointillist masterpiece "La Grande Jatte" will be celebrated in an exhibition of about 130 paintings and works on paper, including 45 of the artist's paintings and drawings relating to the picture and works by his fellow Impressionists and Post-Impressionists Monet, Renoir, Pissaro and Signac. Art Institute of Chicago, June 16-Sept. 19, 2004. (312) 443-3600. www.artic.edu/aic

'INVERTED UTOPIAS: THE AVANT-GARDE IN LATIN AMERICA, 1920-1979' -- Bringing together more than 200 works by 67 artists and artist groups, this big show surveys the rise of vanguard Modernist movements from Argentina, Brazil, Cuba, Mexico and other countries south of the American border. Houston Museum of Fine Art. June 20-Sept. 12, 2004. (713) 639-7300. www.mfah.org

'THE ARTFUL TEAPOT' -- The teapot is a favorite form for contemporary ceramicists to play with. More than 250 variations by modern and contemporary artists including Roy Lichtenstein, Keith Haring, Cindy Sherman, Ron Nagle and Adrian Saxe from the collection of the Southern Californians Sonny and Gloria Kamm should make for a highly entertaining and maybe even edifying experience. Long Beach Museum of Art. June 22-Sept. 14, 2004. (562) 439-2119. www.lbma.org

GRAPHIC: Photos: A self-portrait in "Strange Messenger: The Work of Patti Smith." (Photo courtesy of Philadelphia Institute of Contemporary Art)(pg. 96); Kenny Scharf's painting "The Fun's Inside," from "Splat Boom Pow! The Influence of Cartoons in Contemporary Art" in Boston. (Photo courtesy of Tony Shafrazi Gallery)(pg. 97); Layers of antiquity: an image from "The Dawn of Photography: French Daguerreotypes, 1839-1855." (Photo courtesy of Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. 98); An untitled 1966 sculpture by Lee Bontecou is in a retrospective of her work opening next month at the U.C.L.A. Hammer Museum. (Photo courtesy of Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago)(pg. 99); Yves Klein's photo "The Painter" at the Walker Art Center. (pg. 100); A 1969 lithograph, from "Jasper Johns: Numbers" in Cleveland. (Photo courtesy of Margo Leavin Gallery, Los Angeles)(pg. 101) Drawings (Drawings by Mark Ulriksen)(pgs. 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (85%); RELIGION (85%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (65%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (60%) Art

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); PHILADELPHIA INSTITUTE (59%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (54%)

PERSON: Ken Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) ITALY (90%); HOLY SEE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



139 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Sunday 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 7217 words

HEADLINE: Why Are We In Iraq?; (And Liberia? And Afghanistan?) 

BYLINE:  By Michael Ignatieff; Michael Ignatieff, a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine, is director of the Carr Center at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

 BODY:
In the back alleys of Iraq, the soldiers from the 101st Airborne and First Armored Divisions are hot, dirty and scared. They want to go home, but instead they're pinned down, fighting off hit-and-run attacks and trying to stop sabotage on pipelines, water mains and electric grids. They were told they would be greeted as liberators, but now, many months later, they are an army of occupation, trying to save the reputation of a president who never told them -- did he know himself? -- what they were getting into. The Muslim fighters rushing to join the remnants of Saddam Hussein's loyalists in a guerrilla war to reclaim Iraq have understood all along what the war has been about -- that it was never simply a matter of preventing the use of weapons of mass destruction; rather, it was about consolidating American power in the Arab world. Some in the administration no doubt understood this, too, though no one took the trouble to explain all their reasons for going to war to the American people or, for that matter, the rest of the world. 
 But now we know. Iraq may become for America what Afghanistan became for the Soviet empire: the place where its fight against Islamic jihad will be won or lost. Nor is the United States the only target. The suicide bomb that killed Sergio Vieira de Mello and decimated his team has drawn the United Nations into the vortex. The United Nations came to Baghdad to give American nation-building a patina of legitimacy. Now the world body has been targeted as an accomplice of occupation. If the United States fails in Iraq, so will the United Nations. 
 To see what is really unfolding in Iraq, we need to place it in the long history of American overseas interventions. It is worth remembering, for example, that when American soldiers have occupied countries before, for example Japan and Germany, the story started out much the same: not enough food, not enough electricity, not enough law and order (and, in Germany, ragtag Nazi fighters). And if this history is part of what drove us into Iraq, what doctrine, if any, has determined when and where Americans are sent to fight? Before the United States sends troops to any future front -- Syria? North Korea? Iran? -- it is crucial to ask: What does the history of American intervention teach us to hope and to fear? And how might the United States devise a coherent strategy of engagement suited for the perils -- and possibilities -- of the 21st century?

II.
From the very beginning, the American republic has never shrunk from foreign wars. A recent Congressional study shows that there has scarcely been a year since its founding that American soldiers haven't been overseas "from the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli," chasing pirates, punishing bandits, pulling American citizens out of harm's way, intervening in civil wars, stopping massacres, overturning regimes deemed (fairly or not) unfriendly and exporting democracy. American foreign policy largely consists of doctrines about when and where to intervene in other people's countries. In 1823, James Monroe committed the United States -- militarily, if it came to that -- to keeping foreign colonial powers out of the entire Western Hemisphere. In 1906, Theodore Roosevelt added a corollary giving the United States the right to send in troops when any of its Latin American neighbors engaged in "flagrant wrongdoing." Most Latin Americans, then and now, took that to mean that the United States would topple any government in the hemisphere that acted against American interests. Early in the last century, American troops went ashore to set up governments in Haiti and the Dominican Republic and chased Pancho Villa around Mexico. And this kind of intervention wasn't just confined to pushing around Latin Americans. Twelve thousand troops were sent to support the White armies fighting the Communists in the Russian Civil War that began in 1918. In the 1920's, during the civil war in China, there were 6,000 American soldiers ashore and a further 44 naval vessels in the China Sea protecting American interests. (Neither venture was much of a success. Both Russia and China eventually went Communist.)
Despite George Washington's call to avoid foreign entanglements and John Quincy Adams's plea that America should abjure slaying monsters abroad, splendid isolation has never proved to be a convincing foreign policy for Americans. First in 1917 and then again in 1941, American presidents thought they could keep America out of Europe's wars only to discover that isolation was not an option for a country wanting to be taken seriously as a world power -- which, from the beginning, is precisely what America desired. Intervention required huge sacrifice -- the haunting American graveyards in France are proof of this -- but American soldiers helped save Europe from dictatorship, and their hard fighting turned America into the most powerful nation on earth. 
Americans may think that their troops used to stay at home and that intervention and nation-building used to be rare. In fact, regime change is as old a story in American foreign policy, as is unilateralism. Until the United Nations came along in 1945, the United States did all this intervening without asking anyone's permission. But after watching America be dragged into world war because the League of Nations had been so weak, Franklin Roosevelt decided to back the creation of a muscular world body. He was even willing to hand over some authority over interventions to the United Nations Security Council, leaving it to the council to decide which threats to international peace and security gave states the right to send in military force. Cold-war deadlock on the council, however, frustrated the Roosevelt dream. Besides, a substantial body of American opinion has always questioned why the United States should ask the United Nations' permission to use force abroad. 
After World War II, the boys may have wanted to come home, but Truman kept American soldiers on guard around the world to defend free governments from Communist overthrow. This meant shoring up the Greeks in 1947 and sending troops to prevent South Korea from going under in 1950. But anti-Communism had its limits. It did not mean going to the aid of the Hungarians when they rose up against Soviet domination in 1956. When the Soviet tanks rumbled into Budapest, Eisenhower turned a deaf ear as the Hungarians begged over the airwaves for American help. Ike decided that intervention that risked conflict -- perhaps nuclear conflict -- with a great power was not worth the candle. 

III.
Never pick on someone your own size, which in our time means someone with nuclear weapons: this has been Rule No. 1 of intervention since the end of the Second World War. Minor rogues, would-be tough guys like Saddam Hussein, perhaps, but never someone who can actually deliver a nuclear bomb. (We are about to see whether this rule holds with regard to North Korea.) Even the enormous American intervention in Vietnam took great care to avoid a direct clash with Russia and China.
When Lyndon Johnson sent half a million troops to Vietnam, he thought he was containing Communism in Asia (without threatening either the Chinese or Russian regimes that were financing North Vietnam's campaign). Johnson never realized his ultimate enemy was Vietnamese nationalism. The 58,000 names carved into the black granite of the Vietnam Memorial in Washington are the measure of Johnson's mistake. Rule No. 2 of American intervention evolved out of Vietnam: Never fight someone who is more willing to die than you are. (This is the rule now being tested by the hit-and-run attackers and suicide bombers in Iraq.) The Vietnam veterans who came to command the American military -- led by Colin Powell -- also settled on Rule No. 3, which remains much debated: Never intervene except with overwhelming force in defense of a vital national interest. (Thus this summer's gingerly approach to Liberia.)
But what has been the national interest once the cold war ended and the threat of a growing Communist empire evaporated? No clear national interest has emerged. No clear conversation about the national interest has emerged. Policy -- if one can even speak of policy -- has seemed to be mostly the prisoner of interventionist lobbies with access to the indignation machine of the modern media. America in the 1990's intervened to oust an invader (the first gulf war), to stop civil war (Bosnia), to stop ethnic cleansing (Kosovo), to feed the starving (Somalia) and to prevent a country from falling apart (Macedonia). America also dithered on the sidelines and watched 800,000 people die in three awful months in Rwanda, when airstrikes against the government sponsors of the genocide, coupled with reinforcement of the United Nations troops on the ground, might have stopped the horror. Rule No. 4: Never use force except as a last resort (sometimes turned into an alibi for doing nothing). 
During the Clinton years, there were presidential directives that sought to define exactly what the Clinton doctrine on intervention might be. But no doctrine was ever arrived at. There was a guiding principle: reluctance to shed American blood. Thus, Rule No. 5 in American interventions: When force is used as a last resort, avoid American casualties. Since the Clinton administration's interventions were not of necessity to protect the national interest -- whatever that was at the time -- but matters of choice, this made a certain amount of sense, at least in terms of domestic politics.
The problem with Rule No. 5 is that it made force protection as important as mission accomplishment and may have sent the wrong signal to the enemy. By cutting and running after the botched intervention in Somalia in 1993, for instance, Clinton might have led Osama bin Laden to believe that Americans lacked the stomach for a fight. Ten years later, we may still be paying the price for that mistake.
By the end of the 1990's, conservative commentators were complaining that Clinton's intervention doctrine, such as it was, had lost touch with national interest and had degenerated into social work. The Bush campaign vowed that the 101st Airborne wouldn't be wasted escorting foreign children to school and promised to bring the boys home from Bosnia. (They remain.) As far as the Bush administration was concerned, too much intervention, where too little was at stake, was blunting the purpose of the military, which was to "fight and win the nation's wars." Of course, at the time he became president, the nation had no wars, and none loomed on the horizon. 
Then came Sept. 11 -- and then came first Afghanistan and then Iraq. These two reversed Rule No. 4. (Only use force as a last resort.) Now the Bush administration was committing itself to use force as a first resort. But the Bush doctrine on intervention is no clearer than Clinton's. The Bush administration is committed to absolute military pre-eminence, but does anyone think that Clinton's military was less determined to remain the single -- and overwhelming -- superpower? The Bush doctrine is also burdened with contradiction. The president took office ruling out humanitarian interventions, yet marines did (finally) go ashore in war-torn Liberia. During the 2000 campaign, George Bush ruled out intervention in the cause of nation-building, only to find himself staking his presidency on the outcome of nation-building in Afghanistan and Iraq. Having called for a focused intervention strategy, he has proclaimed a war on terror that never clearly defines terrorism; never differentiates among terrorist organizations as to which explicitly threaten American interests and which do not; and never has settled on which states supporting or harboring terrorists are targets of American intervention. An administration whose supposed watchword is self-discipline regularly leaks to the press, for example, that its intervention list might include Syria or Iran -- or might not, depending on the day of the week you ask. The administration, purposefully or not, routinely conflates terrorism and the nuclear threat from rogue nations. These are threats of a profoundly different order and magnitude. Finally, the administration promises swift and decisive interventions that will lead to victory. But as Afghanistan shows (and Iraq is beginning to show), this expectation is deluded. Taking down the state that sheltered Osama bin Laden was easy; shutting down Al Qaeda has proved frustratingly difficult. Interventions don't end when the last big battle is won. In a war on terror, containing rather than defeating the enemy is the most you can hope for. Where is the doctrine acknowledging that truth? 
The Bush administration, as no administration before it, has embraced "pre-emption." It's a strategy of sorts, but hardly a doctrine. Where is the definition of when pre-emption might actually be justified? The angry postwar debate about whether the American public (and the British public, too) were duped into the Iraq war is about much more than whether intelligence estimates were "sexed up" to make the threat from Hussein seem more compelling. It is about what level of threat warrants pre-emptive use of force. Almost 20 years ago, George P. Shultz, as Reagan's secretary of state, gave a speech warning that America would have to make pre-emptive intervention against terrorist threats on the basis of evidence that would be less than clear. Since Shultz, no one has clarified how intervention decisions are to be made when intelligence is, as it is bound to be, uncertain. As Paul Wolfowitz, the Bush administration's deputy secretary of defense, has candidly acknowledged, the intelligence evidence used to justify force in Iraq was "murky." If so, the American people should have been told just that. Instead, they were told that intervention was necessary to meet a real and imminent threat. Now the line seems to be that the war wasn't much of an act of pre-emption at all, but rather a crusade to get rid of an odious regime. But this then makes it a war of choice -- and the Bush administration came to power vowing not to fight those. At the moment, the United States is fighting wars in two countries with no clear policy of intervention, no clear end in sight and no clear understanding among Americans of what their nation has gotten itself into.

IV.
There has always been an anti-intervention party in American politics, one that believes that the Republic should resist the temptations of empire and that democracy at home is menaced when force is used to export democracy abroad. During the war to annex the Philippines in 1898, the fine flower of the American intellectual and moral elite was dead set against the war: the humorist Mark Twain, the union leader Samuel Gompers, the multimillionaire Andrew Carnegie, the social critic and activist Jane Addams. From these luminaries of yesteryear to the luminaries of today -- Norman Mailer, Noam Chomsky, the Dixie Chicks -- intervention has been excoriated as an imperial misadventure, justified in the language of freedom and democracy but actually prosecuted for venal motive: oil, power, revenge, political advantage at home and nefarious designs abroad.
The anti-intervention party in American politics often captures the high moral ground but usually loses the war for public opinion. With the single exception of Vietnam -- where the sheer cost in blood made the exercise seem futile both to moralists and realists alike -- the American public has never been convinced that the country would lose its soul in overseas wars. On the contrary, Americans have tended to get caught up in the adventure. They have also believedat times that intervention can serve their interests. When anti-interventionists in the months before the invasion of Iraq thundered, "No blood for oil!" many Americans no doubt thought, "If you won't fight to defend the oil supply, what will you fight for?" 
Still, Americans want even this kind of interest backed by principle. Whether it is because America is a religious country at heart, ever concerned with the state of its soul, or just trying to set a better example than the nasty imperialists of old, its leaders have always justified intervention in righteous -- or at least disinterested -- terms. Teddy Roosevelt incessantly spoke of the restoration of civilized values when he laid hands on Cuba and the Philippines. His ulterior motives -- guarding the sea lanes to the Panama Canal he planned to open, securing naval bases in the Pacific -- were played down, lest they introduce a note of vulgar calculation into the proceedings. Likewise in Iraq, much mention was made of human rights and democracy and much less about the obvious fact that the operation was about oil, not in the callow sense of going to war for the sake of Halliburton but in the wider sense of America's consolidating its hegemonic role as the guarantor of stable oil supplies for the Western economy.
Yet oil is not the whole story, as capitalist interest has never been. From Teddy Roosevelt to George W. Bush, moral feeling has made a real difference to the timing and scope of interventions. Just compare Bush the father with Bush the son. The father is a cold-eyed realist. In 1991, he did not think the oppression of the Kurds and Shiites justified going all the way to Baghdad. His son is more a hotblooded moralist. Bringing freedom to the Iraqis seems to matter to him, which is why, perhaps, he rushed to Baghdad not caring whether he had a coalition behind him or not. This is not to say that this president's moralism is unproblematic or that it has gone unchallenged. When he went to the United Nations in September 2002 to make his case for action against Hussein, Amnesty International released a statement objecting to his citation of Hussein's abject human rights record as a ground for the use of force. Nothing makes human rights activists angrier than watching political leaders conscript human rights into a justification for aggression. Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, both of which had denounced Hussein's tyranny for some 20 years with little or no support from successive American administrations, had good reason to be suspicious of the motives of a presidential Johnny-come-lately to the human rights cause. Nonetheless, this put human rights advocates in the curious position of denouncing Hussein but objecting when someone finally proposed to do something about him. To oppose an intervention that was bound to improve the human rights of Iraqis because the man leading that intervention was late to the cause would seem to value good intentions more than good consequences. 
Some of the immediate consequences of the Iraq intervention have been good indeed: a totalitarian regime is no longer terrorizing Iraqis; Shiites marching in their hundreds of thousands to celebrate at their shrine at Karbala, along with professors, policemen and office workers demonstrating in the streets of Baghdad, are tasting freedom for the first time; Iraqis as a whole are discovering the truth about the torture chambers, mass graves and other squalid secrets of more than two decades of tyranny. The people may be using their freedom to demand an early exit of the troops who won it for them, but that is exactly how it should be. If the consequence of intervention is a rights-respecting Iraq in a decade or so, who cares whether the intentions that led to it were mixed at best? But it does matter that American intentions were never really spelled out and that the members of the Bush administration do not seem to have a clear intervention policy on Iraq or anywhere else. Establishing and sustaining a rights-respecting Iraq will depend, in part, on setting a policy and convincing the American people of it. And future interventions will depend on policy coherence, too. 
Yet it is also true that if a rights-respecting regime is not the result in Iraq, blame cannot simply be laid on the Bush administration. Anti-interventionists assume that all the bad consequences of an intervention derive from ignoble American intentions, just as pro-interventionists tend to accord American good will miraculous power. In this, both sides mistake the true limits of American capacity to determine outcomes. The way things are going in Iraq, L. Paul Bremer III and his proconsuls in Baghdad must be fondly wishing that the reality of Iraq could be shaped by any American intentions at all. 
The anti-interventionist party also charges that American good intentions in Iraq might be more credible if the United States defended human rights more consistently throughout the world -- though how this might be brought about without sending in the troops from time to time is at best unclear. Tony Blair, whose human rights bona fides are not in much dispute -- he had already dispatched British troops to prevent massacre and chaos in Sierra Leone before signing on for the Iraq invasion -- says he thinks the demand to intervene consistently or not at all is an argument for sitting on your hands. In the early days of the Iraq war, when British opinion was still against him, Blair remarked to a journalist at 10 Downing Street: "What amazes me is how many people are happy for Saddam to stay. They ask why we don't get rid of Mugabe, why not the Burmese lot? Yes, let's get rid of them all. I don't because I can't, but when you can, you should." A lot of people who would call themselves defenders of human rights opposed intervention in Iraq for sound, prudential reasons -- too risky, too costly, not likely to make America safer -- but prudence also amounted to a vote for the status quo in the Middle East, and that status quo had at its heart a regime that tortured its citizens, used poison gas against its own population and executed people for the free exercise of religious faith. 
Human rights could well be improved in Iraqi as a result of the intervention. But the Bush administration did not invade Iraq just to establish human rights. Nor, ultimately, was this intervention about establishing a democracy or saving lives as such. And here we come to the heart of the matter -- to where the Bush administration's interventions fit into America's long history of intervention. All such interventions have occurred because a president has believed going in that it would increase both his and his country's power and influence. To use Joseph S. Nye Jr.'s definition, "power is the ability to obtain the outcomes one wants." Presidents intervene because successful interventions enhance America's ability to obtain the outcomes it wants. 
The Iraq intervention was the work of conservative radicals, who believed that the status quo in the Middle East was untenable -- for strategic reasons, security reasons and economic reasons. They wanted intervention to bring about a revolution in American power in the entire region. What made a president take the gamble was Sept. 11 and the realization, with 15 of the hijackers originating in Saudi Arabia, that American interests based since 1945 on a presumed Saudi pillar were actually built on sand. The new pillar was to be a democratic Iraq, at peace with Israel, Turkey and Iran, harboring no terrorists, pumping oil for the world economy at the right price and abjuring any nasty designs on its neighbors. 
As Paul Wolfowitz has all but admitted, the "bureaucratic" reason for war -- weapons of mass destruction -- was not the main one. The real reason was to rebuild the pillars of American influence in the Middle East. Americans may have figured this out for themselves, but it was certainly not what they were told. Nor were they told that building this new pillar might take years and years. What they were told -- misleadingly and simplistically -- was that force was justified to fight "terrorism" and to destroy arsenals of mass destruction targeted at America and at Israel. In fact, while Hussein did want to acquire such weapons, the fact that none have been found probably indicates that he had achieved nothing more than an active research program. 
The manipulation of popular consent over Iraq -- together with and tangled up with the lack of an intervention policy -- is why the antiwar party is unresigned to its defeat and the pro-war party feels so little of the warm rush of vindication. Even those who supported intervention have to concede that in justifying his actions to the American people, the president was, at the least, economical with the truth. Because the casus belli over Iraq was never accurately set out for Americans, the chances of Americans hanging on for the long haul -- and it will be a long haul -- have been undercut. Also damaged has been the trust that a president will need from his people when he seeks their support for intervention in the future.

V.
Critics view Iraq as a perilous new step in the history of American intervention: unilateral, opposed by most of the world, an act of territorial conquest. The truth is we have been here before. The Iraq operation most resembles the conquest of the Philippines between 1898 and 1902. Both were wars of conquest, both were urged by an ideological elite on a divided country and both cost much more than anyone had bargained for. Just as in Iraq, winning the war was the easy part. The Spanish fell to Commodore Dewey even more quickly than Hussein's forces fell to Tommy Franks. But it was afterward that the going got rough. More than 120,000 American troops were sent to the Philippines to put down the guerrilla resistance, and 4,000 never came home. It remains to be seen whether Iraq will cost thousands of American lives -- and whether the American public will accept such a heavy toll as the price of success in Iraq. The Philippines also provides a humbling perspective on nation-building in Iraq. A hundred years on, American troops are back in the Philippines, hunting down guerrillas, this time tied to Al Qaeda, and the democracy that Teddy Roosevelt sought to bring to that nation remains chronically insecure.
Roosevelt's "splendid little war" may not have done much for the Philippines, but it did a lot to make America a leading power in the Pacific. If Bush succeeds in Iraq, he will reap geostrategic benefit on the same scale. America's enemies understand this only too well. The current struggle in Iraq is much more than the death throes of the old Hussein regime. The foreign fighters who have crossed into Iraq from Syria, Iran and Palestine to join Hussein loyalists in attacks on American soldiers know how much is at stake. Bloodying American troops, forcing a precipitous withdrawal, destroying the chances for a democratic Iraq would inflict the biggest defeat on America since Vietnam and send a message to every Islamic extremist in the region: Goliath is vulnerable.
But the American Goliath recovers quickly from failure, and this keeps presidents throwing the interventionist dice. Nor is the risk of imperial overstretch -- which kept the Romans and the British from battering every available barbarian rogue -- a very real constraint on America's propensity to intervene. The occupation of Iraq is forcing the military to run at a high operational tempo, but still there appear to be enough troops to land in Liberia and garrison Bosnia and South Korea and all the other outposts of the imperium. Indeed, intervention is getting cheaper. The second gulf war cost half as much as the first gulf war and required about half the number of troops, and actual combat lasted a little more than half the time. If neither the risk of failure nor the cost of deployment is likely to restrain American use of force, what about the risk of casualties? While Clinton believed that Americans didn't want their sons and daughters dying in wars of choice, studies show that Americans are prepared for casualties in wars -- if they understand them as wars of necessity. Besides, Americans count on precision missiles and stealth aircraft to deliver crushing lethality at low risk to American troops. Impunity lowers the threshold of risk for intervention. But that threshold does remain, and an army of occupation is particularly vulnerable. Nobody knows whether one of the president's Democratic opponents will manage to turn the deadly drip of bloodshed in Iraq into an electoral liability. Only one president -- Lyndon Johnson -- was brought down by a botched intervention, but no president since has been able to afford to ignore that warning. 

VI.
If we take stock and ask what will curb the American appetite for intervention, the answer is, not much. Interventions are popular, and they remain popular even if American soldiers die. Even failure and defeat aren't much of a restraint: 30 years after Vietnam, America is intervening as robustly as ever. What Thomas Jefferson called "decent respect to the opinions of mankind" doesn't seem to exert much influence, either. About Iraq, the opinions of mankind told the Bush White House that the use of force was a dangerous and destabilizing adventure, but the intervention went ahead because the president believes that the ultimate authority over American decisions to intervene is not the United Nations or the world's opinion, but his constitutional mandate as commander in chief to "preserve, protect and defend" the United States. This unilateral doctrine alarms America's allies, but there is not a lot they can do about it. When Bush went to war, he set the timetable, and not even Tony Blair, who desperately needed more time to bring his domestic opinion with him, was able to stretch it out.
To date, the only factor that keeps the United States from intervening is if the country in question has nuclear weapons. One of the factors driving pre-emptive action in Iraq was the belief that were Hussein to acquire a nuclear or mass-casualty chemical or biological weapon, it would then be too late to use force. No wonder a Pakistani general is supposed to have remarked in 1999 that the chief lesson he drew from the display of American precision air power in Kosovo was for his country to acquire nuclear weapons as quickly as possible. 
After Iraq, the key question is when the nuclear taboo will be broken. Already in 1994, over the last crisis with North Korea, the Clinton administration gamed out the possibilities of a conventional strike against a North Korean reactor where it believed nuclear weapons were being produced. Fortunately, it decided not to, realizing that any strike, either with conventional or the small precision nuclear weapons the United States is known to possess, might trigger horrendous military retaliation against South Korean or even Japanese cities. 
There is actually a more daunting intervention possibility on the horizon. The United States recognizes one China but guarantees the security of Taiwan. Clinton sent the Navy into the China Sea in 1996 to make sure the Chinese respected that commitment. The freedom of Taiwan, one of the great success stories of American power in Asia, remains precarious. Were the Taiwanese to provoke the mainland, were the Americans to fail to hold them back or were the Chinese leadership to seek to divert attention from troubles at home with bellicose nationalism abroad, America might find itself having to decide how to confront a nuclear power of more than a billion people in defense of an imperative commitment to the freedom of 23 million. Doing so would require the president to break, or at least to threaten to break, the nuclear taboo that has restrained American intervention strategy since Hiroshima. Given American history, which seems to say that resolute use of force always pays dividends, it is difficult for the United States not to believe that it can get its way by relying on military force alone. Yet such a doctrine might end up endangering everyone, including itself. 

VII.
For all its risks, Americans, by and large, still think of intervening as a noble act in which the new world comes to the rescue of the old. They remember the newsreels of G.I.'s riding into Rome in 1943 or driving through the lanes of northern Europe in 1944, kissing the girls and grabbing the bouquets and wine bottles held out to them by people weeping with gratitude at their liberation. All this has changed. There were few tearful embraces when the marines rode into Nasiriya, no bouquets and prayers of thanks when the Army rode into Baghdad. True, Iraq is not the first time an American intervention has been unpopular. Iranians were not happy that the C.I.A. engineered the overthrow of Mossadegh in 1953, Chilean democrats didn't like what was done to Allende and students the world over protested against Vietnam. But these occasions apart, and right through the Kosovo intervention in 1999, our allies kept faith with American good intentions. Now all that moral capital has been spent. Some Europeans actually think, to judge from a few polls, that George Bush is more of a threat to world peace than Osama bin Laden. This may be grotesque, but it makes it much harder for American interventions to find favor in world opinion.
Its allies wept with America after Sept. 11 and then swiftly concluded that only America was under attack. The idea that Western civilization had been the target was not convincing. While America and its allies stood shoulder to shoulder when they faced a common Soviet foe, Islamic terrorism seemed to have America alone in its sights. Why cozy up to a primary target, America's allies asked themselves, when it will only make you a secondary one? Indeed, after Sept.11 an astonishing number of the United States' friends went further. They whispered, America had it coming. Aggrieved Americans were entitled to ask, For what? For guaranteeing the security of their oil supplies for 60 years? For rebuilding the European economy from the ruins of 1945? For protecting innumerable countries from Communist takeover? No matter, after Sept. 11, memories of American generosity were short, and the list of grievances against it was long.
As the Iraq debate at the United Nations showed so starkly, the international consensus that once provided America with coalitions of the willing when it used force has disappeared. There is no Soviet ogre to scare doubters into line. European allies are now serious economic rivals, and they are happy to conceal their absolute military dependence with obstreperously independent foreign policies. Throughout the third world, states fear Islamic political opposition even more than American disapproval and are disposed to appease their Islamic constituencies with anti-American poses whenever they can get away with it. 
There are those who think that the damage done by the Iraq debate at the United Nations can be repaired and that a coalition of the willing, at least one with more active players, might have been possible if the United States hadn't been so backhanded with its diplomacy. Yet the days when the United States intervenes as the servant of the international community may be well and truly over. When it intervenes in the future, it will very likely go it alone and will do so essentially for itself. 
If this is the new world order, it will have costs that the rest of the world will have to accept: fewer humanitarian interventions on behalf of starving or massacred people in the rest of the world, fewer guarantees of other people's security against threat and invasion. Why bother with rescue and protection if you have to do everything alone? Why bother maintaining a multilateral order -- of free trade, open markets and common defense -- if your allies only use it to tie Gulliver down with leading strings? 
American unilateralism will have costs for the United States too. The first gulf war was paid for by a coalition of the willing. The cost of the second one will be borne by the American taxpayer alone. The Bush administration affects not to care about the price tag of unpopularity abroad; foreigners don't vote. But Iraq has shown the costs, monetary and otherwise, that are added to the exercise of power when friends don't trust your intentions. 
But can a war on terror be fought alone? The allies have intelligence networks and some good counterterrorist squads, and in a battle with Al Qaeda, the biggest breaks have come from the police work of specialists in Spain, Britain, Germany and Pakistan. In a war on terror, an isolated America whose military power awakens even the resistance of its friends may prove a vulnerable giant.

VIII.
There is a way out of this mess of interventionist policy, but it is also a route out of American unilateralism. It entails allowing other countries to have a say on when and how the United States can intervene. It would mean returning to the United Nations and proposing new rules to guide the use of force. This is the path that Franklin Roosevelt took in 1944, when he put his backing behind the creation of a new world organization with a mandate to use force to defend "international peace and security." What America needs, then, is not simply its own doctrine for intervention but also an international doctrine that promotes and protects its interests and those of the rest of the international community.
The problem is that the United Nations that F.D.R. helped create never worked as he intended. What passes for an "international community" is run by a Security Council that is a museum piece of 1945 vintage. Everybody knows that the Security Council needs reform, and everybody also knows that this is nearly impossible. But if so, then the United Nations has no future. The time for reform is now or never. If there ever was a reason to give Great Britain and France a permanent veto while denying permanent membership to Germany, India, Brazil or Japan, that day is over. The United States should propose enlarging the number of permanent members of the council so that it truly represents the world's population. In order to convince the world that it is serious about reform, it ought to propose giving up its own veto so that all other permanent members follow suit and the Security Council makes decisions to use force with a simple majority vote. As a further guarantee of its seriousness, the United States would commit to use force only with approval of the council, except where its national security was directly threatened. 
All this is difficult enough, but the next step is tougher still. The United Nations that F.D.R. helped create privileged state sovereignty ahead of human rights: a world of equal states, equally entitled to immunity from intervention. One result has been that since 1945 millions more people have been killed by oppression, abuse, civil war and massacre inside their states than in wars between states. These have been the rules that made tyrants and murderers like Saddam Hussein members in good standing of the United Nations club. 
This is the cruel reality of what passes for an "international community" and the comity of nations. United Nations member states will have to decide what the organization is actually for: to defend sovereignty at all costs, in which case it ends up defending tyranny and terror -- and invites a superpower to simply go its own way, or to defend human rights, in which case, it will have to rewrite its own rules for authorizing the use of force. 
So what rules for intervention should the United States propose to the international community? I would suggest that there are five clear cases when the United Nations could authorize a state to intervene: when, as in Rwanda or Bosnia, ethnic cleansing and mass killing threaten large numbers of civilians and a state is unwilling or unable to stop it; when, as in Haiti, democracy is overthrown and people inside a state call for help to restore a freely elected government; when, as in Iraq, North Korea and possibly Iran, a state violates the nonproliferation protocols regarding the acquisition of chemical, nuclear or biological weapons; when, as in Afghanistan, states fail to stop terrorists on their soil from launching attacks on other states; and finally, when, as in Kuwait, states are victims of aggression and call for help. These would be the cases when intervention by force could be authorized by majority vote on the Security Council.
Sending in the troops would remain a last resort. If the South Africans can persuade Mugabe to go into retirement, so much the better. If American diplomats can persuade the Burmese junta to cease harassing Aung San Suu Kyi, it would obviously be preferable to using force. But force and the threat of it are usually the only language tyrants, human rights abusers and terrorists ever understand. Terrorism and nuclear proliferation can be contained only by multilateral coalitions of the willing who are prepared to fight if the need arises. 
These rules wouldn't require the United States to make its national security decisions dependent on the say-so of the United Nations, for its unilateral right of self-defense would remain. New rules for intervention, proposed by the United States and abided by it, would end the canard that the United States, not its enemies, is the rogue state. A new charter on intervention would put America back where it belongs, as the leader of the international community instead of the deeply resented behemoth lurking offstage.
Dream on, I hear you say. Such a change might lead to more American intervention, and the world wants a lot less. But we can't go on the way we are, with a United Nations Charter that has become an alibi for dictators and tyrants and a United States ever less willing to play by United Nations rules when trying to stop them. Clear United Nations guidelines, making state sovereignty contingent on good citizenship at home and abroad and licensing intervention where these rules were broken might actually induce states to improve their conduct, making intervention less, rather than more, frequent. 
Putting the United States at the head of a revitalized United Nations is a huge task. For the United States is as disillusioned with the United Nations as the world is disillusioned with the United States. Yet it needs to be understood that the alternative is empire: a muddled, lurching America policing an ever more resistant world alone, with former allies sabotaging it at every turn. Roosevelt understood that Americans can best secure their own defense and pursue their own interests when they unite with other states and, where necessary, sacrifice unilateral freedom of action for a common good. The signal failure of American foreign policy since the end of the cold war has not been a lack of will to lead and to intervene; it has been a failure to imagine the possibility of a United States once again cooperating with others to create rules for the international community. Pax Americana must be multilateral, as Franklin Roosevelt realized, or it will not survive. Without clear principles for intervention, without friends, without dreams to serve, the soldiers sweating in their body armor in Iraq are defending nothing more than power. And power without legitimacy, without support, without the world's respect and attachment, cannot endure. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraq: American soldiers dig through the rubble of the Canal Hotel in Baghdad on Aug. 20, one day after a truck bomb destroyed the headquarters of the United Nations mission to Iraq, killing at least 23, including the head of the mission, Sergio Vieira de Mello. (Photo by Stephanie Sinclair/Corbis); Afghanistan: American troops pause in the village of Loy Kariz during an operation to search for Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters. The slow process of nation-building is under way in Afghanistan, despite George W. Bush's campaign promises never to engage in such policies. (Photo by Ed Kash); Liberia: U.S. marines in the port area of Monrovia last month. About 200 American troops entered Liberia to secure the U.S. Embassy and to offer some support of Nigerian peacekeepers, but most of the U.S. forces were withdrawn within a couple of weeks. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%) United States International Relations; Islam; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); HEZBOLLAH (55%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Michael Ignatieff

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); LIBERIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); GERMANY (86%); SYRIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%) Iraq; Iraq; Afghanistan; Liberia

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



140 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 1800 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/FILM: THE DVDS; 
Crib Sheet: What to Watch on Disc

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE ZACHAREK

 BODY:
THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD -- As movie-star entrances go, the vision of an ebullient and dashing Errol Flynn as Robin Hood, striding into a vast Norman dining hall with a dead stag wrapped around his shoulders like an evening stole, is pretty much unparalleled. Who says there's no such thing as a glamorous Marxist? This gorgeous DVD restoration of Michael Curtiz and William Keighley's 1938 "Adventures of Robin Hood" (Warner Brothers), one of the greatest swashbucklers ever made, does justice to that exhilarating entrance.
 Sometimes you forget how incredible Technicolor can look. This "Robin Hood" brings it right home: in the glossy chestnut flanks of all those heroic, galloping horses, in the impossible blue of that 12th-century England-via-Chico, Calif., sky, in the vivid reds and golds of all those tabards, capes and doublets. (Be sure to look for the dazzling medieval Missoni-style striped gown worn by Olivia de Havilland as the luscious and lively Marian.) 
 The extras here are lavish, sprawling and variable: I could do without Leonard Maltin and his tin-canned smile as he describes the typical 1930's moviegoing experience ("Hold onto your ticket stubs, it's dish night!"), but a detailed featurette about the history of Technicolor taught me plenty. (It was news to me, for example, that Herbert T. Kalmus, the very un-Hollywood inventor of Technicolor, hired a publicist to keep his name out of the press.) But the real treasure of this two-disc, 65th-anniversary edition is that bold, luxurious, mind-bending color, so rich you wonder if you could get fat just by looking at it. To quote everyone's favorite populist hero himself: "To the tables, everybody, and stuff yourselves!" (Sept. 30.)

A MIGHTY WIND -- Christopher Guest and the ensemble of actors he works with to construct his elaborate and wonderful faux documentaries are stealth geniuses. You might not howl with laughter through every gag in "A Mighty Wind" (Warner Brothers), their parody of the squeaky-clean segment of the 60's folk world (as opposed to its grittier, counterculture faction). But the movie's gentle, good-natured humor sticks with you: this is a comedy with an emotional afterlife.
Three veterans of "This Is Spinal Tap" -- Mr. Guest, Michael McKean and Harry Shearer, the last wearing an inexplicably hilarious whaler's beard -- play a group of Kingston Trio-style balladeers, the Folksmen, who hope that a big reunion concert will resuscitate their pooped-out careers. John Michael Higgins and Jane Lynch lead a sprawl of chirpy songsters called the New Main Street Singers (their candy-colored uniforms are enough to make your teeth hurt). But Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara, as the formerly married folkie sweethearts Mitch & Mickey, are the heart and soul and breath of "A Mighty Wind." Their strained reconciliation is an elegy for both a lost era and a doomed, if hardy, love.
The DVD commentary, by Mr. Levy and Mr. Guest, is an amusing ramble: no surprise given that the picture was completely improvised to begin with. Then again, improvisation is crucial to great filmmaking anyway. We learn that when cast and crew members showed up to film a scene featuring a deluxe model train setup, the thing didn't work. The solution: a crew member ended up pulling the engine along with dental floss. The one thing that's missing from this nicely turned-out DVD package is the Folksmen doing their tub-thumping, folkified version of the Rolling Stones' "Start Me Up." This strange and marvelous creation does exist -- but only on the CD soundtrack. (Sept. 23.)

THE ITALIAN JOB (1969) and THE ITALIAN JOB (2003) -- Construction, pacing, plot details -- it's easy to tick off the flaws of the 1969 film "The Italian Job" (Paramount). And they don't matter a whit. The movie's stylishness is its engine: once you've seen Michael Caine, as a crook just sprung from prison, open a hotel-room door to the bevy of bikinied cuties his girlfriend has organized as a "coming out" present for him, you're not likely to forget it. But the real stars are the three Mini Coopers, one in each color of the British flag, that Caine uses to pull off a $4 million gold heist.
The cars rumble through the Italian countryside (it's not called "The Italian Job" for nothing), zip onto a modern building's curved roof and send up great splashing fans of water as they drive through (and seemingly over) a river. Their squat shape alone is a kind of economical poetry, and after the scratchy, faded prints that have been kicking around for years, this smart-looking DVD transfer finally does them justice.
The 2003 "Italian Job" (Paramount) isn't, as the executive producer James Dyer points out in one of the DVD extras, a remake, but it uses the same tools to tell the story: "Heist, armored truck, gold, Mini Coopers." Although it's heresy to say so, the new "Italian Job," with a cast that includes Mark Wahlberg and Charlize Theron, is a better movie. The director, F. Gary Gray, knows how to construct an action picture intelligently -- instead of assaulting us with car chases and explosions, he allows us to relish them by giving us plenty of breathing space in between. Because watching stuff get wrecked and blown up is a legitimate moviegoing pleasure -- as thousands of grown-up boys who came up watching the first "Italian Job," either in theaters or on TV, can attest. (Oct. 7.)

THE WHO: THE KIDS ARE ALRIGHT -- For plenty of rock 'n' roll fans, on every third day the Who are the greatest band in the world. (On alternate days, the honor might go to the Stones or the Beatles; the Kinks get the occasional Tuesday, although they deserve more.) Until now, "The Kids Are Alright" (Pioneer), Jeff Stein's exhilarating pastiche of Who interviews and performances, has been available only on faded video, with some of the performances marred by technical glitches on the soundtrack. This two-disc DVD restores the Who to glory, and it is capped off by the last performance of the original band, at Shepperton Film Studios in May 1978 (the drummer, Keith Moon, died three months later). During that performance, Mr. Stein's camera is waiting, like a catcher with a mitt, to capture Pete Townshend as he leaps into the air, lands on his knees and slides clear across the stage: it's one of the most exuberant moments in rock 'n' roll. Meanwhile, Roger Daltrey preens and prances, as if he were actually the star of the show -- but then again, that's always been the great joke of the Who. "The Kids Are Alright" also shows us lots of Moon in action. There has never been so joyous a rock drummer (or one so outstandingly goofy). The extras feature two quizzes, one relatively easy and the other pretty much killer, as well as my favorite extra of all: performance footage of the late and, yes, great bass player John Entwistle, with his audio track isolated so you can hear every elegant, improvised fillip, every sonorous burr and thrum. Turn it up loud enough, and it could float you away, as if it were a velvet cushion with wings. (Sept. 30.)

SCARFACE TWO-DISC ANNIVERSARY EDITION and CARLITO'S WAY -- Brian De Palma's 1983 "Scarface" (Universal) has become a cult picture -- particularly among fans of gangsta rap -- and it feels giant and hungrily enveloping, as a gangster epic should. Al Pacino's Cuban drug mobster Tony Montana, dull-witted and bleary-eyed as he crouches behind his mountain of cocaine, is King Midas in reverse. Anything we feel for him comes from the brutal delicacy of Mr. Pacino's performance, not from the movie's core, and certainly not from Oliver Stone's screenplay, with its heavy-handed, moralistic metaphors.
Still, many movie fans revere "Scarface," and for them, this two-disc anniversary edition (there's also a deluxe gift edition, which includes the 1932 Howard Hawks original) offers some fascinating background, including the story of how Mr. De Palma and the producer, Martin Bregman, fought the X rating that the Motion Picture Association of America initially slapped on the film.
"Scarface" may be popular, but Mr. De Palma's 1993 "Carlito's Way" (Universal) is the real secret masterpiece. As the screenwriter, David Koepp, aptly points out in the DVD featurette, if you understand that romanticism is essentially about longing and loss, Mr. De Palma's movies are deeply romantic. And that, combined with his devotion to structure and craftsmanship, is what makes Mr. De Palma as great a director as we've got. 
"Carlito's Way," released last week, is a picture of piercing romanticism. Mr. Pacino plays Carlito, a hood striving to go straight largely for the love of a woman (Penelope Ann Miller). He strides through the movie like a cocky tomcat, but it's his face that holds you: when he looks at Ms. Miller, it's as if his old world is melting before his eyes and a previously unimaginable future is taking its place. Mr. Bregman, who also produced "Carlito's Way," calls it a perfect film, and Cahiers du Cinema named it the greatest film of the 1990's. They're both right. "Scarface" is respectable. But "Carlito's Way" is worthy of our love. ("Scarface," Sept. 30.)

AND THERE'S MORE . . .
* The two-disc "X2: X-Men United" (Fox, Nov. 25), including making-of featurettes and an "interactive multi-angle scene study" of the Nightcrawler attack. 
* "The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers" (New Line, Nov. 18), with an extra 43 minutes of footage straight from Middle Earth.
* "The Lion King" (Buena Vista, Oct. 7), which includes a virtual safari and a series of featurettes about the making of, and the inspiration for, the music.
* A special edition of Sergio Leone's breathtaking western "Once Upon a Time in the West" (Paramount, Nov. 18).
* "Babe," at last available in a widescreen version, and its even better sequel, "Babe, Pig in the City" (both Universal, Sept. 23). 
* "Monty Python's The Meaning of Life" (Universal, Sept. 2), worth having if only for the magnificent "Every Sperm Is Sacred" musical number.
* From England, the first season of the all-too-realistic but very funny mockumentary "The Office" (Oct. 7), as well as a compilation of performances from the legendary BBC show "The Old Grey Whistle Test" (Sept. 16) featuring the likes of John Lennon, Elton John and Captain Beefheart (both BBC Video).
* Jacques Rivette's stately and gorgeous drama "La Belle Noiseuse" (New Yorker Films, November).
* The 60's-comedy spoof "Down With Love" (Fox, Oct. 7), in which Ewan McGregor and Renee Zellweger stand in valiantly, if wearyingly, for Doris Day and Rock Hudson.
* "Bend It Like Beckham" (Fox, Sept. 30), for those who just can't get enough of cross-cultural hilarity and high jinks.
* "Red White and Blonde: Legally Blonde 2" (MGM, Nov. 11), with deleted scenes, audio commentary and a LeAnn Rimes video: bigger, spunkier and pinker than ever.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top: Al Pacino as Tony Montana in "Scarface." Center: Eugene Levy and Catherine O'Hara in the mockumentary "A Mighty Wind." Above: The Who, from left, Keith Moon, Roger Daltrey, Pete Townshend and John Entwistle, in a poster for the 1979 film "The Kids Are Alright." (Photo by Everett Collection); (Photo by Suzanne Tenner/Warner Brothers); Errol Flynn in "The Adventures of Robin Hood." (Photo by Photofest, from Film Forum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) ENGLAND (76%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



141 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 8397 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/FILM; 
Hippies and Orphans, Desperados and Dummies

BYLINE:  By DAVE KEHR; Compiled with the assistance of SUZANNE O'CONNOR

 BODY:
 September

All dates subject to change.

Wednesday

THE SAME RIVER TWICE -- A drug-enhanced trip down the Colorado River during the high-hippie era is recalled by five of its now middle-aged participants in Robb Moss's documentary. At Film Forum, Wednesday through Sept. 23.

Friday

CABIN FEVER -- Eli Roth's indie horror film is a rousing variation on a classic formula: a group of five college kids vacationing in a remote rural area find that one of them has been infected with a mysterious disease, one that turns ordinary human beings into flesh-eating monsters! And it's catching! With James DeBello and Joey Kern.

DUMMY -- From the writer-director Greg Pritikin, a romantic comedy about the friendship between a painfully shy young man (a pre-Oscar Adrien Brody) trying to find a voice through ventriloquism, and his neighbor (Milla Jovovich), a rock singer who performs in Yiddish. Illeana Douglas, Jessica Walter and Ron Leibman fill out the cast.

FORBIDDEN PHOTOGRAPHS: THE LIFE AND WORK OF CHARLES GATEWOOD -- The photographer who specialized in shooting outrageous Americana, from sex parties to self-styled vampires, profiled in a documentary by Bill Macdonald.

LOST IN TRANSLATION -- Sofia Coppola's second feature (after "The Virgin Suicides") casts Bill Murray as Bob Harris, a 70's movie star on the skids who visits Tokyo to shoot a whiskey commercial. Hanging out in his hotel, he meets a bright young woman (Scarlett Johansson) who shares his sense of disillusionment. With Giovanni Ribisi. A related article is on Page 39.

LUSTER -- Love among the blue-haired boys of the Los Angeles gay punk scene, starring Justin Herwick as a record store clerk with a crush on a handsome stranger. Everett Lewis wrote and directed.

MATCHSTICK MEN -- Roy (Nicolas Cage), a neurotic con man, is setting up a big score with his partner (Sam Rockwell), when a new member of the team turns up -- Roy's teenage daughter (Alison Lohman), who's eager to learn the tricks of her father's trade. The prolific Ridley Scott ("Gladiator," "Black Hawk Down") directs; with Bruce McGill and Melora Walters.

MILLENNIUM ACTRESS -- Satoshi Kon, who directed the creative and disturbing Japanese anime "Perfect Blue," returns with a new animated film, this one about a documentary maker whose interview with an elderly actress leads to some amazing revelations. DreamWorks is releasing this Japanese import, apparently hoping for another "Spirited Away."

ONCE UPON A TIME IN MEXICO -- The writer-director Robert Rodriguez shot this continuation of his "El Mariachi" franchise in 2002, before he began filming his hit of this summer, "Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over." Antonio Banderas returns as the guitar-strumming professional killer; this time he's looking for revenge on the drug kingpin (Willem Dafoe) who murdered his wife (Salma Hayek). Johnny Depp plays a C.I.A. agent with a few loose screws. With supporting appearances by Enrique Iglesias, Ruben Blades, Cheech Marin and Mickey Rourke.

PASSIONADA -- The Portuguese fishing community of New Bedford, Me., provides the background for Dan Ireland's study of a mother (Sofia Milos) and daughter (Emmy Rossum) driven apart by Mom's new boyfriend, a charming, continental cad (Jason Isaacs). With Theresa Russell, Seymour Cassel and Lupe Ontiveros.

SO CLOSE -- Two beautiful sisters (Shu Qi and Zhao Wei) operate a high-tech surveillance and assassination service, at least until a Hong Kong cop (Karen Mok) gets on their trail. Directed by the martial arts veteran Corey Yuen ("The Transporter").

WARRIOR OF LIGHT -- The German documentarist Monika Treut turns her attention from sex ("My Father Is Coming") to social work, with a film about a Brazilian woman who finds housing for street kids. At the BAM Rose Cinemas.

Sept. 19

ANYTHING ELSE -- Woody Allen takes a crack at Gen X romantic comedy with this account of a young New York writer (Jason Biggs, of "American Pie") who is having trouble with his neurotic girlfriend (the newly slim Christina Ricci). When she refuses to have sex with him anymore, he turns for help to the older writer who is his mentor in all things, a figure played by Mr. Allen himself.

CASA DE LOS BABYS -- Six American women -- Maggie Gyllenhaal, Daryl Hannah, Marcia Gay Harden, Susan Lynch, Mary Steenburgen and Lili Taylor -- check into a South American motel operated by Rita Moreno as they wait to adopt newborns from the local orphanage. John Sayles wrote and directed this ensemble drama.

COLD CREEK MANOR -- Sharon Stone (in her first major film since "The Muse") and Dennis Quaid as a pair of desperate urban dwellers who find their dream house in the country, only to learn that it has a previous owner (Stephen Dorff) who wants it back. Badly. Directed by Mike Figgis, returning to the studio scene after a long stretch of indies (including "Timecode"). With Juliette Lewis and Christopher Plummer.

DEMONLOVER -- From the French filmmaker Olivier Assayas, a postmodern thriller set in the chilly world of giant media corporations. Connie Nielsen is an acquisitions executive with her eye on a hot new Japanese porn site; Charles Berling plays her sinister colleague and Chloe Sevigny is her apparently naive young assistant, both of whom may or may not be undermining Ms. Nielson's mission. With a guest appearance by Gina Gershon.

EMERALD COWBOY -- How a Japanese businessman named Eishy Hayata made a fortune mining emeralds in Colombia, despite opposition from guerrillas and drug dealers. Mr. Hayata stars in and directs (with Andrew Molina) this blend of documentary and recreated scenes.

THE FIGHTING TEMPTATIONS -- When his rich aunt dies, a New York advertising executive (Cuba Gooding Jr.) is called back to his hometown in Georgia and finds that as a condition of inheriting his aunt's millions, he must form a successful gospel choir. In the course of his endeavors he is reunited with his childhood sweetheart (Beyonce Knowles), who happens to have a terrific voice. With Mike Epps, Faith Evans and Steve Harvey; the director is Jonathan Lynn ("My Cousin Vinny").

IN THIS WORLD -- The journey of two young refugees from Afghanistan to London, filmed as a pseudo-documentary by the fast-working Michael Winterbottom ("24 Hour Party People"). With Jamal Udin Torabi and Enayatullah Jumaudin.

MAMBO ITALIANO -- From Canada, acomedy about a gay television writer (Luke Kirby) plotting to move in with his longtime boyfriend, a cop (Peter Miller), without revealing the secret of his sexuality to his old-fashioned Italian-immigrant parents (Ginette Reno and Paul Sorvino). Does this one come with dinner? Emile Gaudreault directed.

SECONDHAND LIONS -- With puberty rapidly approaching, a gangly Haley Joel Osment stars as a city kid forced to spend a summer in Texas with his two eccentric uncles, played by Michael Caine and Robert Duvall. They turn out to be a couple of colorful characters who treat the boy to tales of their youthful adventures as bank robbers. Get ready for some big bear hugs! Tim McCanlies ("Dancer, Texas") is the director.

TIBET: CRY OF THE SNOW LION -- Ed Harris, Tim Robbins, Susan Sarandon and Martin Sheen are among the celebrities who contribute voice-over narration to this documentary study of Tibet's rich past, oppressed present and uncertain future. Tom Peosay is the director; the producers are Lon Bender, Maria Florio and Victoria Mudd.

TO BE AND TO HAVE -- Directed by Nicolas Philibert, this French documentary is an enchanting portrait of a small-town schoolteacher in northern France.

UNDERWORLD -- It's Vampires vs. Werewolves in the battle of the century -- or centuries, actually, since the conflict has extended across several of them. The vampires are the aristocrats of the underworld, led by Kate Beckinsale in a skintight leather suit; the werewolves have a working-class touch provided by Scott Speedman. Directed, with lots of digital flourish, by Len Wiseman, a music-video specialist.

Sept. 26

BOLLYWOOD/HOLLYWOOD -- Despite its title, Deepa Mehta's film is set largely in Toronto, where a successful Indian businessman (Rahul Khanna) hires a high- paid escort (Lisa Ray) to pretend to be his fiancee during his sister's marriage celebration. The uptight businessman succumbs to the working girl's irresistible charm, and rediscovers the joy of living.

BUBBA HO-TEP -- Two residents of an East Texas nursing home -- one believes himself to be Elvis Presley (Bruce Campbell), the other John F. Kennedy (Ossie Davis) -- team up to defeat a soul-sucking mummy who has risen from the local swamp. An original premise, if ever there was one, from the veteran horror film writer-director Don Coscarelli ("Phantasm").

DUPLEX -- Two New Yorkers, Drew Barrymore and Ben Stiller, discover the perfect apartment, then plot to murder the little old lady (Eileen Essell) who lives there. The actor Danny DeVito directed a cast that includes Harvey Fierstein and Swoosie Kurtz.

LUTHER -- The third screen version of John Osborne's play about Martin Luther, it stars Joseph Fiennes as the titular monk and was directed by a television-movie veteran, Eric Till. With Alfred Molina, Jonathan Firth, Claire Cox, Peter Ustinov and Bruno Ganz.

MY LIFE WITHOUT ME -- A 28-year-old Vancouver woman (Sarah Polley) lives in a trailer surrounded by her unfeeling, ungrateful family (including her mom, played by Deborah Harry, and dad, Alfred Molina). When she learns she has only a short time to live, she draws up a list of things to do -- including telling the truth and getting fake fingernails -- that helps her reawaken to the beauty of life. Does that list include seeing inspirational movies? Isabel Coixet wrote and directed this Canadian film.

THE RUNDOWN -- Don't look for Wildean banter in this study of a "retrieval expert" (played by the professional wrester the Rock) sent to the Amazon in search of a gang leader's son (Seann William Scott). Christopher Walken is the local heavy, the evil president of a gold-mining corporation; Rosario Dawson is the hotly disputed love interest. Directed by Peter Berg ("Corky Romano").

7 YEAR ZIGZAG -- Richard Green wrote, directed, scored and stars in this philosophical comedy done entirely in rhyming couplets. It's 1978, and an aspiring filmmaker is struggling to raise money by opening an Art Deco-themed nightclub.

UNDER THE TUSCAN SUN -- Diane Lane stars as the author Frances Mayes in a fictionalized version of Ms. Mayes's best-selling travel book. She's now a recent divorcee who buys a Tuscan villa on impulse and meets the Italian man of her dreams while she's fixing it up. Audrey Wells wrote the new story and directed it; with Sandra Oh, Lindsay Duncan and Raul Bova.

YOSSI & JAGGER -- Two Israeli soldiers fall in love while stationed together in an isolated post. Based on a true story and directed by Eytan Fox, this Israeli film stars Ohad Knoller and Yehuda Levi.

October

Oct. 3

ANYTHING BUT LOVE -- Robert Cary's film aspires to the look and tone of a 1950's musical, offering Isabel Rose as a cabaret singer in an unfulfilling affair with a lawyer (Andrew McCarthy).

BOUNCE KO GALS -- Masato Harada ( Kamikaze Taxi ) directed this Japanese film about a 16-year-old schoolgirl who becomes a prostitute for one night to earn money for a trip to America. Sounds like more Japanese comic nihilism in the Takashi Miike tradition ("Ichi the Killer" ), though Mr. Harada cites his influences as Howard Hawks and Samuel Fuller.

THE EVENT -- From the Canadian filmmaker Thom Fitzgerald ("The Hanging Garden"), a police drama set in New York City. Parker Posey abandons her usual ditzy type to play an N.Y.P.D. inspector investigating a series of suspicious "suicides" in Chelsea. Don McKellar, Sarah Polley and Olympia Dukakis also star.

THE FLOWER OF EVIL -- The French New Wave director Claude Chabrol may be 73, but he's showing no signs of slowing down: his new feature is a deliciously perverse study of intermarriage among France's provincial bourgeoisie, with intimations of murder, incest and collaborationist secrets deep in the past. Nathalie Baye, Benoit Magimel and Thomas Chabrol (the director's son) star.

THE HUMAN STAIN -- Robert Benton directs Nicholas Meyer's adaptation of Philip Roth's novel. Anthony Hopkins plays Coleman Silk, a college professor whose relationship with a younger woman (Nicole Kidman) forces him into a violent confrontation with his past -- as well as the young woman's angry husband (Ed Harris). Gary Sinise is Silk's best friend (and Mr. Roth's alter ego), Nathan Zuckerman.

OUT OF TIME -- The reliable Carl Franklin ("Devil in a Blue Dress") directed this noirish thriller about a police captain (Denzel Washington) in a small Florida town who dips into a pile of cash being held as evidence so he can run off with the love of his life, sultry Sanaa Lathan. But she turns out to be false and heartless, taking the cash and leaving Mr. Washington to face disgrace -- and plot his revenge -- alone.

THE SCHOOL OF ROCK -- The hard-working Mike White ("Chuck and Buck," "The Good Girl") wrote this comedy about a down-and-out rock musician (Jack Black) who takes a job teaching music at a private grade school. The kids, of course, learn more than the principal (Joan Cusack) would prefer. With Sarah Silverman and Mr. White as a fellow teacher; Richard Linklater ("Waking Life") directs.

THE STATION AGENT -- Tom McCarthy's Sundance hit -- it won the Dramatic Audience Award, the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award and a special jury performance award for its star, Patricia Clarkson -- is an eye-wiper about a group of lovable losers who band together for moral support. Peter Dinklage is Finbar, an emotionally isolated dwarf who inherits an abandoned small-town railroad station; Ms. Clarkson is a neighbor still reeling from the breakup of her marriage; and Bobby Cannavale is a chatty hot-dog vendor who opens a stand near Finbar's property.

WONDERLAND -- The sordid life and death of the 1970's porn star John Holmes (a k a Johnny Wadd). Val Kilmer plays Holmes; the cast includes Kate Bosworth, Christina Applegate, Lisa Kudrow and Dylan McDermott; James Cox directs. A related article is on Page 67.

Oct. 8

BUS 174 -- When the Rio de Janeiro police bungled a bus hijacking in 2000, killing a woman held hostage instead of the hijacker, who was trying to surrender, it set off a violent public reaction much like the Rodney King riots in Los Angeles. Jose Padilha's documentary examines the incident, reconstructing the hijacker's wretched childhood. At Film Forum, through Oct. 21. A related article is on Page 68.

MYSTIC RIVER -- Clint Eastwood directs this adaptation of Dennis Lehane's psychological thriller. In a working-class Boston neighborhood, three childhood friends are thrown back together when the daughter of one of them is found brutally murdered. Sean Penn is the bereaved father; Tim Robbins a prime suspect (with abuse in his past); and Kevin Bacon the cop on the case. As always in Mr. Eastwood's films, the secondary women's roles come to assume a surprising importance; here they're played by Marcia Gay Harden and Laura Linney.

Oct. 10

DOPAMINE -- One of a package of four films to be released in theaters this year by the Sundance Channel, Mark Decena's feature is a comedy about a computer programmer (John Livingston) whose theories about rational romance are defeated by a schoolteacher (Sabrina Lloyd) he meets in a bar.

GIRLS WILL BE GIRLS -- Richard Day's camp comedy sounds like a drag remake of "Valley of the Dolls," following three Hollywood actresses (all played by men) as they face romantic disaster, creeping age and tottering careers.

GOOD BOY! -- Family entertainment from Jim Henson Pictures, in which we discover that dogs are actually emissaries from outer space, sent to take over our planet but co-opted by friendly humans. Matthew Broderick provides the voice of Canid 3942, a hound who has been dispatched from the Dog Star to see what's holding things up, only to be adopted by a lovable, all-American kid (Liam Aiken).

INTOLERABLE CRUELTY -- After an unscrupulous Beverly Hills divorce lawyer (George Clooney) frames a client's wife (Catherine Zeta-Jones) to avoid a settlement, she vows revenge, which means marrying him and taking him to the cleaners. Originally a Jonathan Demme project, the picture passed into the hands of Joel and Ethan Coen. With Geoffrey Rush and Billy Bob Thornton.

KILL BILL VOL. 1 -- Quentin Tarantino's first film since "Jackie Brown" is an homage to ultra-violent Asian action films. It's being released in two, 90-minute parts, with the next installment in 2004. Uma Thurman stars as the Bride, a professional assassin betrayed by her employer, Bill (David Carradine). She swears revenge on him and his other employees, played by Lucy Liu, Daryl Hannah, Vivica A. Fox and Michael Madsen.

PORN THEATER -- Titled "La Chatte a deux tetes" ("The Cat With Two Heads") in France, Jacques Nolot's film chronicles the love affair of a 50-year-old man and a young projectionist who works in a Parisian sex-movie theater.

Oct. 17

KHACHATURIAN -- The Soviet composer, whose "Sabre Dance" remains a favorite, is examined in a documentary.

9 DEAD GAY GUYS -- A grisly black comedy about a couple of earnest young Irishmen who arrive in London hoping to pursue careers as male prostitutes but instead get mixed up in a murderous pursuit of a mattress stuffed with money. With Brendan Mackey, Glen Mulhern and Steven Berkoff; Lab Ky Mo directs.

PIECES OF APRIL -- The hottest acquisition at the 2003 Sundance Film Festival, Peter Hedges's film is a comedy that finds an East Village bohemian, Katie Holmes, struggling to cook a Thanksgiving dinner for her conventional suburban family. Oliver Platt and Patricia Clarkson are her anxious parents.

PREY FOR ROCK AND ROLL -- Gina Gershon stars as a rock musician pushing 40 who has one last shot at the big time when her band gets an offer to open for a major act. But can her fellow girl-group members -- Shelly Cole, Drea DeMatteo and Lori Petty -- overcome their assorted personal crises and get it together in time for the gig? Alex Steyermark directs.

THE RETURNER -- Takeshi Kaneshiro ("Chungking Express") as a Tokyo assassin who accidentally shoots an emissary from the future (Ann Suzuki), sent back in time to prevent an alien invasion. Takashi Yamazaki directed this Japanese import.

RUNAWAY JURY -- John Grisham's novel finally emerges from six years in development hell; it stars John Cusack as a mysterious operative who tries to influence a trial involving a gun manufacturer. Rachel Weisz is his equally cunning girlfriend; Gene Hackman and Dustin Hoffman play the lawyers in the case. Gary Fleder ("Impostor") directs.

SYLVIA -- The gifted New Zealand director Christine Jeffs ("Rain") tackles the story of Sylvia Plath (Gwyneth Paltrow) and her disastrous marriage to the poet Ted Hughes (Daniel Craig). Expect an Oscar push. With Ms. Paltrow's real mom, Blythe Danner, as Plath's mother.

THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE -- Tobe Hooper's seminal 1974 horror film, about a family of crazed backwoods killers, has spawned three sequels and now this remake, directed by the music video veteran Marcus Nispel. Not too many names in the cast: Jessica Biel, Eric Balfour and Andrew Bryniarski as the iconic Leatherface.

VERONICA GUERIN -- The true story of Veronica Guerin (Cate Blanchett), a Dublin journalist whose reports on her city's drug scene led to her murder. Joel Schumacher directs an impressive supporting cast: Colin Farrell, Brenda Fricker and Ciaran Hinds. A related article is on Page 40.

Oct. 22

IN THE CUT -- Meg Ryan is a sexually repressed college writing teacher whose libido is stirred by a series of sex crimes in her neighborhood. Mark Ruffalo is the investigating officer, with whom Ms. Ryan's character has a passionate affair. A first American film for the New Zealand writer-director Jane Campion ("The Piano"), adapted from the novel by Susanna Moore.

MORNING SUN -- China's Cultural Revolution, explored in all its horror, in a documentary directed by Carma Hinton, Geremie R. Barme and Richard Gordon. At Film Forum, through Nov. 4.

Oct. 24

BEYOND BORDERS -- A spoiled socialite, Angelina Jolie, pursues an idealistic doctor (Clive Owen of "Croupier") on a tour of the world's trouble spots, from Africa to Asia, developing a soul of her own along the way. With Noah Emmerich and Linus Roache; Martin Campbell directs.

BROTHER BEAR -- The voices of Joaquin Phoenix, Rick Moranis and Dave Thomas (reviving their Doug and Bob McKenzie characters) contribute to this Disney animated film, about a young Inuit who is transformed into his most hated enemy -- a bear.

ELEPHANT -- A M iddle American high school comes under attack by two disaffected students. Gus Van Sant's film, inspired by Columbine, won two major awards at this year's Cannes Film Festival, for best film and best director. Mr. Van Sant uses overlapping points of view to tell his story, giving it a "Rashomon"-like effect. With Eric Deulen and Alex Frost; Timothy Bottoms and Matt Malloy are among the clueless adults.

GOTHIKA -- A psychiatrist (Halle Berry) awakens from a blackout to find herself a patient in the hospital where she works, accused of having killed her husband (Charles Dutton). There are ghosts in it, too, as well as Penelope Cruz, Robert Downey Jr. and Bernard Hill. The young French filmmaker Mathieu Kassovitz directed, in his English-language debut.

LIL' PIMP -- A parody of squeaky-clean family cartoons, in which a lovable 9-year-old (voiced by Mark Brooks) and his stable of prostitutes caper through a Middle American suburb. Directed (in the economical Flash animation process) by Mr. Brooks and Peter Gilstrap, with the voices of Ludacris, Lil' Kim, Bernie Mac and William Shatner.

SCARY MOVIE 3 -- Things come full circle as David Zucker, a member of the team that invented the modern movie parody with "Airplane!," steps in to direct the latest installment in one of the many series directly inspired by his own work. With the Wayans brothers gone, both as filmmakers and stars, Mr. Zucker has brought in some veterans of the genre, including Charlie Sheen, Leslie Nielsen, Pamela Anderson, George Carlin and Eddie Griffin.

THE SINGING DETECTIVE -- Dennis Potter's 1986 television drama adapted as a feature film. It has Robert Downey Jr. stepping into the central role of a hospitalized writer who dreams about being a hard-boiled detective. A boatload of guest stars, including Mel Gibson, Katie Holmes, Robin Wright Penn and Adrien Brody. Keith Gordon ("Mother Night") directs.

SISTER HELEN -- The life of Helen Travis, a nun who runs a halfway house in the Bronx, explored in a documentary by Rob Fruchtman and Rebecca Cammisa.

Oct. 31

ALIEN -- The 1979 haunted-house-in-outer-space horror classic comes back, with a digital refurbishing and some newly added scenes. Ridley Scott is still the director (though he's now Sir Ridley); Sigourney Weaver remains the star.

DIE MOMMIE DIE -- The playwright and drag performer Charles Busch wrote and stars in this sendup of Joan Crawford's late career as a horror movie star. Angela Arden (Mr. Busch) is a fading star surrounded by leeching relatives (Natasha Lyonne, Philip Baker Hall) standing in the way of her elopement with a hunky actor played by Jason Priestly. Someone has got to go! Directed by Mark Rucker.

GIRLHOOD -- Liz Garbus, co-director of the Sundance-winning documentary "The Farm," returns with a study of two pre-teenagers accused of violent crimes.

SHATTERED GLASS -- The cautionary true-life tale of the ambitious young journalist Stephen Glass (Hayden Christensen), who was found to have fabricated many of the stories he wrote for The New Republic. Chloe Sevigny plays his sympathetic co-worker; Hank Azaria is Michael Kelly, the editor who brought Mr. Glass on board. Billy Ray directs.

SUSPENDED ANIMATION -- The Michigan-based filmmaker John Hancock ("Bang the Drum Slowly") presents the tale of a Hollywood animator (Alex McArthur) held prisoner in the Michigan woods by a pair of homicidal, flesh-eating sisters. He escapes, makes his way home and the fun begins.

November

Nov. 5

THE MATRIX REVOLUTIONS -- The third and final installment in the Matrix trilogy. Look for major metaphysical payoffs, as the alien ships finally invade Zion (earth's last colony of humans), causing great anxiety for the cyber-revolutionaries Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss. Monica Belluci, whose character (a computer-generated femme fatale) was introduced very briefly in the previous episode, presumably has more to do in this one. Lots of Australians in the supporting cast (the film was shot in Warner's down-under studios), including Hugo Weaving and Bruce Spence.

THE REVOLUTION WILL NOT BE TELEVISED -- The filmmakers Kim Bartley and Donnacha O'Briain were on hand in April of last year when Venezuela's populist president, Hugo Chavez, was threatened by a right-wing coup, and managed to record most of the action on videotape. At Film Forum, through Nov. 11.

Nov. 7

ELF -- Accidentally transported to the North Pole when he falls in Santa's bag, a human child grows up to be Will Ferrell, and a little disturbed that he doesn't resemble the other elves. With the help of Mr. Claus (Ed Asner) and his chief assistant (Bob Newhart), he sets out for New York in search of his biological father (James Caan). With Zooey Deschanel and Mary Steenburgen; Jon Favreau directs.

IN MY SKIN -- When a young woman accidentally cuts herself at a party, the wound opens up a whole new world of sadomasochistic self-abusive pleasure for her. Marina De Van, Francois Ozon's co-writer on "Under the Sand" and "Eight Women," directs and stars.

Nov. 12

MY ARCHITECT -- Nathaniel Kahn, the son of the celebrated architect Louis I. Kahn, examines the many mysteries in his late father's life in this documentary, which had its premiere at the 2003 New Directors/New Films festival.

Nov. 14

ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND -- Another impossible-to-summarize plot line from the mind of Charlie Kaufman ("Adaptation"), though the broad outlines look like this: Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet play a battling couple who have their bad memories erased by a mad scientist (Tom Wilkinson), and find themselves falling in love again. But Mr. Carrey's character senses that something is wrong, causing the doctor and several of his assistants (Kirsten Dunst, Elijah Wood, Mark Ruffalo) to invade his dreams. I think. Michel Gondry ("Human Nature") directs.

HONEY -- Jessica Alba plays a tough girl from the inner city who becomes a top music video choreographer, only to quit show business in disgust when a producer makes a pass at her. She returns to her roots, teaching kids to dance (among them, Lil' Romeo). With Mekhi Phifer; directed by Bille Woodruff.

LOONEY TUNES: BACK IN ACTION -- Warner Brothers follows "Space Jam" with another attempt to revive their stable of cartoon characters, including Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck and Yosemite Sam. The movie is a mix of animation and live action, the latter directed by Joe Dante ("Gremlins") and featuring Brendan Fraser and Jenna Elfman as secret agents fighting a plot by the Acme Corporation to take over the world. With Steve Martin and Timothy Dalton.

MASTER AND COMMANDER: THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD -- Fox is looking to tap the "Gladiator" audience with this adaptation, theoretically the first in a series, from Patrick O'Brian's popular naval adventure novels, set in the 19th century. Russell Crowe is Mr. O'Brian's recurring hero, the sea captain Jack Aubrey, who gets to say things like "All right, lads!" as his frigate is chased through the open seas by a vicious privateer. Directed by Peter Weir; Paul Bettany and Ian Mercer are Mr. Crowe's co-stars.

THE SINGING FOREST -- From the writer-director Jorge Ameer, the story of a young couple killed during the Holocaust and reincarnated in the present day. Mr. Ameer also stars, with Erik Morris and Shelley Price.

TUPAC: RESURRECTION -- A portrait of the rap artist Tupac Shakur, who was fatally shot in 1996, assembled from music videos and interviews. Lauren Lazin directed for MTV Films.

21 GRAMS -- That's the weight of the human soul, as claimed by one of the characters in this English-language film by Mexico's acclaimed young director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu ("Amores Perros"). A university professor with a bad heart (Sean Penn), an ex-con who works in a Christian center (Benicio Del Toro) and a woman who has lost her husband and two daughters (Naomi Watts) find their fates intertwined as Guillermo Arriaga's screenplay unfolds.

Nov. 19

THE COOLER -- Known as the "unluckiest man in Las Vegas," Bernie Lootz (William H. Macy) makes his living as a "cooler," standing next to big winners at the Vegas tables and cooling down their luck. But when he falls in love with a cocktail waitress (Maria Bello), his luck takes a turn for the better -- and his employer (Alec Baldwin) couldn't be unhappier. Wayne Kramer directed.

Nov. 20

EL LEYTON -- A fisherman disappears, leaving the lives of his family in chaos. Gonzalo Justiniano directed this Chilean feature, which has been making the festival rounds.

Nov. 21

AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS -- Steve Coogan is Phileas Fogg and Jackie Chan is his resourceful valet Passepartout in this latest adaptation of Jules Verne's adventure novel about a mad Englishman who bets that he can circumnavigate the world in 80 days. Like the Mike Todd version of 1956, the picture is full of cameo appearances by stars like Jim Broadbent, Kathy Bates, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Owen Wilson, Rob Schneider and John Cleese. An ambitious project for one of Adam Sandler's house directors, Frank Coraci ("The Waterboy," "The Wedding Singer").

THE BARBARIAN INVASIONS -- A loose sequel to the French Canadian hit of 1986, "The Decline of the American Empire." Directed and written (again) by Denys Arcand, the picture picks up the first film's community of oversexed academics and asks them to confront the coming specter of death, as the charismatic womanizer Remy (Remy Girard) slowly succumbs to cancer. Stephane Rousseau plays Remy's son, who returns from a busy career in London to take care of the father he never really knew. The film picked up two awards this year at Cannes, one for Mr. Arcand's screenplay and the other for the actress Marie-Josee Croze.

DR. SEUSS' THE CAT IN THE HAT -- Mike Myers plays the trouble-making feline of Dr. Seuss' famous children's book in this live-action adaptation, directed by the longtime production designer Bo Welch ("Edward Scissorhands"). Kelly Preston is the concerned mom; Sean Hayes provides the crucial voice of thee Fish. With Dakota Fanning, Spencer Breslin and Alec Baldwin.

LOVE ACTUALLY -- Richard Curtis, the screenwriter of "Four Weddings and a Funeral," "Notting Hill" and "Bridget Jones's Diary," takes up directing with an ensemble piece that intertwines 10 different love stories. One takes place between the British prime minister (Hugh Grant) and his new tea girl (Martine McCutcheon); the other lovestruck actors include Laura Linney, Rowan Atkinson, Colin Firth, Keira Knightley, Denise Richards and Alan Rickman.

RADIO -- The heartwarming tale of a high school football coach (Ed Harris) who shocks his South Carolina town by taking a mentally challenged young man (Cuba Gooding Jr.) under his wing. Despite all the odds, their friendship endures for decades. Radio is the boy's nickname; the director's name is Michael Tollin. With a rare appearance by Debra Winger.

THE TRIPLETS OF BELLEVILLE -- From France, an animated feature directed by Sylvain Chomet about a young misfit who grows up to be a championship bicycle rider, with some help from three former vaudeville singers.

Nov. 26

BAD SANTA -- A different kind of Christmas story from the director Terry Zwigoff ("Ghost World"). Billy Bob Thornton and Bernie Mac are a pair of professional criminals who tour the shopping malls of the Midwest, posing as Santa and his elf and knocking over stores as soon as the lights go down. John Ritter is the mall manager who gets hip to their scam. Joel and Ethan Coen, executive producers, contributed to the screenplay.

EL BONAERENSE -- Pablo Trapero's film satirizes the rampant corruption of his home country, Argentina, through the story of a provincial locksmith (Jorge Roman) who becomes a Buenos Aires cop and discovers that everyone is on the take. At Film Forum through Dec. 9.

IN AMERICA -- Jim Sheridan's drama, first announced last fall, is about a hardy family of Irish immigrants (Samantha Morton and Paddy Considine, plus two children) living in an East Harlem squat. With Djimon Hounsou as an angry downstairs neighbor. A related article is on Page 72.

THE HAUNTED MANSION -- After Disney turned the theme park ride "Pirates of the Caribbean" into a live-action hit, it got to work on another Disneyland attraction. Eddie Murphy plays the head of household who learns from a ghost how to spend more time with his family. With Jennifer Tilly, Don Knotts and Terence Stamp; the director is Rob Minkoff, fresh off the "Stuart Little" films.

TIMELINE -- Five junior archaeologists go 600 years back in time to rescue their professor, who has been trapped in the Middle Ages. Paul Walker heads the team; also in the cast are Frances O'Connor, Billy Connolly and David Thewlis. Richard Donner, the creator of the "Lethal Weapons" films, directs from the novel by Michael Crichton.

Nov. 28

INDEPENDENT SPIRITS -- A documentary study of John and Faith Hubley, animators who broke with the naturalism of the Disney tradition to help create the modernist style of the 50's and 60's. Directed by Sybil DelGaudio.

December

Dec. 5

JAPANESE STORY -- One of the few popular successes at this year's Cannes Film Festival, Sue Brooks's Australian film is about an Australian geologist (Toni Collette) thrown in with a surly Japanese man (Gotaro Tsunashima) as they explore the Pilbara desert, one of the earth's last remaining uncharted regions.

THE LAST SAMURAI -- The opening of Japan to the West as seen through the eyes of a Winchester salesman, played by Tom Cruise, who arrives in Tokyo to train the imperial troops in the use of this strange new weapon, the rifle. But he is captured by samurai and trained in their noble traditions, and must decide which side of the cultural divide he belongs on. A big production, directed by Edward Zwick from a script by John Logan. With Ken Watanabe, Billy Connolly, Tony Goldwyn and Timothy Spall.

MONSIEUR IBRAHIM -- In the Arab quarter of Paris in the 1960's, an elderly convenience store owner (Omar Sharif) takes a young Jewish man (Pierre Boulanger) under his wing, teaching him the mystic ways of Sufism. Francois Dupeyron directed this French production, adapted from a best-selling novel by Eric-Emmanuel Schmitt.

Dec. 10

THE MISSING -- When Ron Howard's "Alamo" project fell through, he turned to this western based on a novel by Thomas Eidson. Tommy Lee Jones is a wanderer who returns to his New Mexico family after several years of living with the Apaches. He finds that his wife is dead and his daughter (Cate Blanchett) despises him. But when a gang of Army deserters kidnap Mr. Jones's younger daughter, Ms. Blanchett joins him in riding for revenge. Look for a big Oscar push.

POWER TRIP -- What's happened to the power supply in post-Soviet Georgia? That's the real question after an American company enters the market after the state relinquished control. Paul Devlin directed this documentary, at Film Forum through Dec. 23.

Dec. 11

ABOUNA -- Set in Chad, Mahamat-Saleh Haroun's film tells the story of two brothers who, suddenly abandoned by their father, seek solace at the movies. "Mr. Haroun, for his part, is alive to every nuance of feeling and immune to sentimentality," said A. O. Scott of The New York Times when "Abouna" was shown in the 2002 New Directors/New Films festival.

Dec. 12

THE GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING -- Scarlett Johansson in a period piece that finds her, as an unassuming Dutch housekeeper, modeling for the famous painting by Johannes Vermeer (Colin Firth). Tom Wilkinson and Judy Parfitt also appear in this British film directed by Peter Webber ("Wagner's Women"). A related article is on Page 39.

LOVE DON'T COST A THING -- An African-American remake of the 1987 white-bread comedy "Can't Buy Me Love," in which a high school nerd (Nick Cannon) hires a cheerleader (Christina Milian) to be his date for the prom. Steve Harvey plays the boy's father; Troy Beyer directed.

SOMETHING'S GOTTA GIVE -- From Nancy Meyers, the director of "What Women Want," a comedy about an aging playboy (Jack Nicholson) who falls ill at the home of his young girlfriend's mother, only to find himself strangely attracted to the older woman -- no surprise, since she's played by Diane Keaton. But there's another complication in the person of Keanu Reeves, playing a young doctor who has a crush on Ms. Keaton himself.

THE STATEMENT -- High Oscar credibility, given its statuette-laden crew: the director Norman Jewison (an Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award winner), the writer Ronald Harwood ("The Pianist") and the star Michael Caine ("The Cider House Rules," "Hannah and Her Sisters"). Mr. Caine plays an elderly Frenchman whose past, as a Nazi sympathizer responsible for denouncing 14 Jews, is uncovered by an investigator played by Tilda Swinton.

STUCK ON YOU -- Not the 1984 Troma classic, but a new comedy from the Farrelly brothers. Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear are Siamese twins who have shared a happy life together, as dual goalies for the hockey team and an unbeatable pair of wrestlers. But now Mr. Kinnear's character wants to go to Los Angeles to pursue a television career, causing problems for the less ambitious Mr. Damon. With Seymour Cassel, Evan Mendes and a lot of celebrities playing themselves: Meryl Streep, Jack Nicholson, Al Pacino and others.

Dec. 17

LORD OF THE RINGS: THE RETURN OF THE KING -- Peter Jackson's three-part adaptation of J. R. R. Tolkien's "Ring" saga comes to a thundering conclusion with this episode, in which Viggo Mortensen's Aragorn emerges as the legitimate heir to the ancient kings. All your favorites are back: Elijah Wood, Sean Astin, Ian McKellen, John Rhys-Davies, Orlando Bloom, Christopher Lee, Andy Serkis, Liv Tyler, Ian Holm and Miranda Otto. A related article is on Page 39.

Dec. 18

BIG FISH -- Finally, a new picture from Tim Burton ("Edward Scissorhands"). This is a project he inherited from Steven Spielberg, and it still sounds more suited to Mr. Spielberg's talents than to Mr. Burton's: it's about a young man (Billy Crudup) who tries to distill the true biography of his dying father (Albert Finney) by looking for the kernels of truth in the many tall tales he has told over the years about his life in the South as a traveling salesman. Much of the movie is devoted to flashbacks, with Ewan McGregor playing Mr. Finney's character as a young man. Adapted by John August from Daniel Wallace's novel; with Helena Bonham Carter, Danny DeVito, Jessica Lange, Alison Lohman and Steve Buscemi.

Dec. 19

CALENDAR GIRLS -- The true tale of the middle-aged members of a woman's club in Yorkshire, England, who posed nude for a calendar to raise money for the medical research that might save the husband of one of the members from leukemia. Helen Mirren, never that shy about dropping her knickers ("The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover") stars, with support from Julie Walters and Penelope Wilton.

MONA LISA SMILE -- A stand-up-and-cheer drama, starring the stand-up-and-cheer Julia Roberts as a noncomformist hired to teach art appreciation at Wellesley in the 1950's. But her real specialties are self-esteem and proto-feminism, as she casts a Jean Brodie-ish spell over her students (who include Kirsten Dunst, Julia Stiles and Maggie Gyllenhaal). Of course, the reactionary forces on the faculty try to drive her out. Mike Newell ("Four Weddings and a Funeral," "Enchanted April") directed.

Dec. 24

CHILDREN OF LOVE -- From Belgium, the tale of three children destroyed by their parents' divorces. Geoffrey Enthoven directed. At Film Forum through Jan. 6.

Dec. 25

THE ALAMO -- The director John Lee Hancock ("The Rookie") stepped in when Ron Howard dropped out over budget disputes with Disney (he remains on board as a producer). It's the time-honored tale of a small band of Texans, including Sam Houston (Dennis Quaid), Jim Bowie (Jason Patric) and Davy Crockett (Billy Bob Thornton), defending a mission-turned-fort against the vastly more powerful Mexican army, led by Santa Anna (Emilio Echevarria). With a script by John Sayles and Stephen Gaghan, this promises to be a more culturally sensitive version than the John Wayne film of 1960.

CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN -- A loose remake of the 1950 family favorite that starred Clifton Webb as an efficiency expert and father of 12; the efficiency angle has been excised from the new screenplay, attributed to no fewer than 11 writers. Now, Steve Martin is a college football coach who must uproot his large family when he gets a new job in a new city. Among the offspring: Hilary Duff, Piper Perabo and Tom Welling; Bonnie Hunt is Mom. Shawn Levy ("Just Married") directed.

COLD MOUNTAIN -- Charles Frazier's best-selling literary novel about a wounded Civil War soldier (Jude Law) and his long journey home to North Carolina, where his sweetheart (Nicole Kidman) is waiting for him. It's been adapted by the writer-director Anthony Minghella ("The English Patient") and filled out with a stunning supporting cast: Renee Zellweger, Natalie Portman, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Giovanni Ribisi, Charlie Hunnam, Ray Winstone and Donald Sutherland.

THE COMPANY -- Neve Campbell, an erstwhile ballerina, wrote and produced this study of work habits and relationships within a Chicago-based dance company. Robert Altman directs; the cast includes James Franco and Malcolm McDowell (as the artistic director). A related article is on Page 40.

HOUSE OF SAND AND FOG -- Ben Kingsley is Massoud Amir Behrani, an exile from Iran (where he belonged to the Shah's inner circle) now trying to make a life for himself in America. He sees his chance at achieving the American dream when he buys a house at a back-taxes auction, only to find that the former owner, Kathy Nicolo (Jennifer Connelly), still has a valid claim on the property and is determined to get it back. The first-timer Vadim Perelman directs this adaptation of the novel by Andre Dubus III.

PAYCHECK -- One of those bafflingly complex Philip K. Dick illusion-and-reality plots, this time about an engineer (Ben Affleck) who tries to quit his top-level security job and wakes up to find that his memory has disappeared. And there's a government agent (Michael C. Hall) on his trail as well. With Uma Thurman, Aaron Eckhart and Paul Giamatti; the inimitable John Woo ("The Killer") directed.

PETER PAN -- The latest in a long, long list of adaptations of J. M. Barrie's play, about a group of London children transported to the mysterious realm of Never-Never Land, to do battle with the infinitely evil Captain Hook (Jason Isaacs, this time). Jeremy Sumpter is Peter, Rachel Hurd-Wood is Wendy and Olivia Williams is Mrs. Darling. Weary dads dragged along by the kids will have the consolation of Ludivine Sagnier (the French actress who starred in "Swimming Pool") as Tinkerbell. The Australian P. J. Hogan ("My Best Friend's Wedding") directed.

SPARTAN -- David Mamet wrote and directed this thriller about a government agent (Val Kilmer) who is assigned to rescue the kidnapped daughter of the president but who finds that the kidnapping is only the tip of a nasty iceberg involving a nefarious plot within the White House. With Derek Luke, William H. Macy, Kristin Bell and Natalija Nogulich.

YOUNG BLACK STALLION -- Made in the giant-screen Imax process by the Walt Disney organization, Simon Wincer's film is a prequel to Carroll Ballard's beautiful children's film of 1979. Here, we discover that the horse had a previous relationship, with a young girl abandoned in the desert during World War II. With Biama Tamimi and Patrick Elyas.

Dec. 26

THE FOG OF WAR -- Subtitled "Eleven Lessons of Robert S. McNamara," this documentary by Errol Morris links a probing interview with the former secretary of defense (for Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson) with newsreel clips illustrating his exploits. With a Philip Glass score.

2004

Jan. 9

FIRST DAUGHTER -- When the president's daughter, played by Katie Holmes, goes off to college, she refuses to be accompanied by a squad of Secret Service agents. Instead, the feds plant a young operative (Marc Blucas) among the students to keep an eye on her, never dreaming that the two will fall in love. Yeah. Forest Whitaker, a wonderful actor ("Bird") and a hard-working director ("Hope Floats"), is the filmmaker in chief.

Jan. 16

THE PERFECT SCORE -- Erika Christensen leads a group of high school students in a plot to steal the answers to the SAT Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson and Darius Miles also star under Brian Robbins's direction.

TORQUE -- An outlaw biker (Martin Henderson) returns to his hometown and finds himself blamed for a murder he didn't commit. The victim's brother, the most feared motorcycle gang leader in the country (Ice Cube), swears to snuff him. That patented Ice Cube sneer is bound to be on ample display in this genre piece, directed by Joseph Kahn.

Jan. 30

THE BIG BOUNCE -- The gifted George Armitage ("Miami Blues") wrote and directed this adaptation of Elmore Leonard's novel about an amoral drifter (Owen Wilson) caught up in a web of sex, murder and betrayal among Miami real estate developers. With Sara Foster, Morgan Freeman, Gary Sinise and Charlie Sheen.

Feb. 13

DIRTY DANCING HAVANA NIGHTS -- A remake of the 1987 hit "Dirty Dancing," with the action shifted from the Catskills to prerevolutionary Cuba. Romola Garai plays the naive American girl vacationing in Havana with her family; Diego Luna is the local teenager who admires her dancing style and teaches her a few new moves of his own. Patrick Swayze, who starred in the original, makes a guest appearance; Guy Ferland directed.

Feb. 27

BROKEN LIZARD'S CLUB DREAD -- The Broken Lizard comedy troupe, most recently responsible for "Super Troopers," returns with a look at life in a tropical resort -- a life somewhat complicated by the presence of a serial killer. Jay Chandrasekhar stars and directs, with appearances by Bill Paxton, Kevin Heffernan, Steve Lemme, Paul Soter and Erik Stolhanske.

March 5

HIDALGO -- In 1890, an Arabian chief (Omar Sharif) invites an American cowboy (Viggo Mortensen) to ride as the first Westerner in a legendary horse race across the desert. A family film going out under the Walt Disney banner, it was directed by the Disney vet Joe Johnston ("Honey, I Shrunk the Kids") and also stars Malcolm McDowell and Zuleikha Robinson. A related article is on Page 39.

STARSKY & HUTCH -- The writer-director Todd Phillips, of "Old School," takes on the 70's television show about a pair of hot-dogging detectives. Ben Stiller is Starsky, Owen Wilson is Hutch, and, in an inspired casting coup, Snoop Dogg is Huggy Bear, the duo's ace informer. With Vince Vaughn, Fred Williamson and Chris Penn.

March 19

NED KELLY -- Australia's most notorious (and beloved) outlaw is portrayed by Heath Ledger in a film based on Robert Drewe's novel "Our Sunshine." With Geoffrey Rush and Naomi Watts (given a rare opportunity to use their actual accents), and the teenage heartthrob Orlando Bloom; Gregor Jordan ("Buffalo Soldiers") directed.

April 2

HELLBOY -- The Gothic specialist Guillermo del Toro ("The Devil's Backbone") tackles the Dark Horse comic book created by Mike Mignola. Ron Perlman is the title character, a demon from hell conjured up by Nazi paranormal researchers near the end of World War II; with the help of a kindly scientist, John Hurt, and his psychically gifted assistant, Selma Blair, he learns to use his powers for the benefit of mankind.

April 23

MAN ON FIRE -- An embittered ex-marine, Denzel Washington, takes a job protecting the 10-year-old daughter (Dakota Fanning) of a wealthy family from kidnappers. When he fails, he sets out on a revenge mission of his own. Tony Scott ("Crimson Tide") directs; Christopher Walken and Radha Mitchell co-star.

May 7

VAN HELSING -- Universal revives its stable of movie monsters -- Dracula (Richard Roxburgh), Frankenstein's monster (Shuler Hensley) and the Wolf Man (Will Kemp) -- for a special-effects spectacular directed by Stephen Sommers (who did the recent "Mummy" remakes). Hugh Jackman takes time off from "The X-Men" to play the title character, the famous monster hunter created by Bram Stoker for his novel "Dracula," and Kate Beckinsale is his comely assistant.

May 21

SHREK 2 -- America's favorite ogre, voiced by Mike Myers, returns from his honeymoon with his new ogress mate (Cameron Diaz); further adventures ensue. Andrew Adamson, Conrad Vernon and Kelly Asbury direct the computer animation; other voices are provided by Eddie Murphy, John Lithgow, John Cleese, Julie Andrews and Antonio Banderas.

TROY -- What, was "The Iliad" too hard to spell? That pesky Helen (Diane Kruger) does it again, setting off war between Sparta and Troy when Paris (Orlando Bloom) takes her home to meet the folks. What a cast: Brad Pitt as Achilles, Eric Bana as Hector, Sean Bean as Odysseus, Peter O'Toole as Priam, Brendan Gleeson as Menelaus, and so on and on. Wolfgang Petersen directs.

June 4

HARRY POTTER AND THE PRISONER OF AZKABAN -- Alfonso Cuaron, who directed the excellent children's film "A Little Princess" (and the not-bad adult film "Y Tu Mama Tambien") takes over the direction of the Harry Potter films with this third entry in the series. Michael Gambon replaces Richard Harris as Professor Dumbledore and Julie Christie turns up as Madam Rosmerta; the rest of the cast (Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson, Rupert Grint, Robbie Coltrane) looks to be intact.

June 18

GARFIELD -- Bill Murray provides the voice of the lasagna-loving cat in this blend of computer animation and live action, directed by Peter Hewitt ("Thunderpants"). Breckin Meyer is Garfield's custodian; Jennifer Love Hewitt and Debra Messing are his co-stars.

July 2

SPIDER-MAN 2 -- The moody teenage superhero (Tobey Maguire) takes on the villainous Doctor Octopus (Alfred Molina) in the director Sam Raimi's sequel to his runaway hit of 2002. With Kirsten Dunst, Rosemary Harris and James Franco. Compiled with the assistance of SUZANNE O'CONNOR

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An annotated list of films in the New Season issue last Sunday misidentified the source of "Luther," opening Sept. 26. It was made from an original screenplay based on the life of Martin Luther, not based on the play "Luther" by John Osborne.
An annotated architecture listing misidentified an architect for the Aqua residential community in Miami Beach. She is Alison Spear. (Laurinda Spear, also an architect, is her sister.)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jamal Udin Torabi, above, plays an Afghan refugee in Michael Winterbottom's "In This World." At right, Diane Lane in "Under the Tuscan Sun." (Photo by Sundance); (Photo by Franco Biciocchi/Touchstone Pictures); Cuba Gooding Jr. and Beyonce Knowles as childhood sweethearts who find each other again in "The Fighting Temptations." (Photo by David Lee/Paramount); Mark Ruffalo and Sarah Polley in the Canadian film "My Life Without Me," written and directed by Isabel Coixet. (Photo by Bob Askester/Sony Pictures Classics)(pg. 65); Uma Thurman plays an assassin in the first installment of Quentin Tarantino's "Kill Bill." (Photo by Andrew Cooper/Miramax); Dustin Hoffman in "Runaway Jury," based on a John Grisham novel; Jack Black, below, in "The School of Rock." (Photo by Zade Rosenthal/20th Century Fox); (Photo by Andrew Schwartz/Paramount Pictures); Sean Penn, center, plays Jimmy Marcus, a Boston man whose daughter is found murdered, in the Clint Eastwood film "Mystic River," based on a novel by Dennis Lehane. (Photo by Merie W. Wallace/Warner Brothers)(pg. 69); Keira Knightley and Andrew Lincoln in "Love Actually," above; Mike Myers as the title character, with Dakota Fanning and Spencer Breslin, in "Dr. Seuss' The Cat in the Hat," left; Stephane Rousseau and Remy Girard in "The Barbarian Invasions." (Photo by Peter Mountain/Universal Studios); (Photo by Melinda Sue Gordon/Universal Studios and DreamWorks); (Photo by Miramax Films); Will Ferrell plays a human, taken to the the North Pole as a child, who wonders why he's so much bigger than everyone else in "Elf." (Photo by Alan Markfield/New Line Productions)(pg. 71); Matt Damon, left, and Greg Kinnear as hockey-playing Siamese twins (it's hard to get the puck past them) in "Stuck on You." (Photo by Glenn Watson/20th Century Fox); Jennifer Connelly in "House of Sand and Fog," based on the novel by Andre Dubus III. (Photo by Bruce Bermelin/DreamWorks); Michael Caine plays a Frenchman with an unsavory past in "The Statement." (Photo by Sony Pictures Classics); Jeremy Sumpter, center, as Peter and a crowd of Lost Boys in the latest adaptation of "Peter Pan," this time directed by P. J. Hogan. (Photo by Jasin Boland/Universal Studios)(pg. 74); The ogre (voiced by Mike Myers) returns this spring -- from his honeymoon, no less -- in "Shrek 2."; Hugh Jackman portrays the title character in "Van Helsing." (Photo by Fran Masi/Universal Studios); Romola Garai and Diego Luna star in "Dirty Dancing Havana Nights," set in 1950's Cuba. It's a sequel to "Dirty Dancing" (1987). (Photo by Barry Wetcher)(pg. 75) Drawing (Drawing by Mark Ulriksen)(pg. 65)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ORPHANS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); ANIMATION (77%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); MILLENNIUM (77%); FILM (77%); ANIMATED FILMS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); HORROR FILMS (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); WRITERS (74%); COMEDY FILMS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); POP & ROCK (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); MUSIC STORES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: DAKOTA FANNING (57%); MATT DAMON (57%); MILLA JOVOVICH (57%); CLINT EASTWOOD (57%); KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (57%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (57%); SCARLETT JOHANSSON (57%); NICOLAS CAGE (57%); JOHN GRISHAM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



142 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 5895 words

HEADLINE: THE NEW SEASON/DANCE; 
Dancing Onstage, Out of Doors, Even in a Dream

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER DUNNING

 BODY:
 All dates are subject to change.

September

DANCENOW/NYC -- The intention of this sprawling series is to celebrate dance and the community, as its founders put it. But as it has grown, over nine years, Dancenow has become unpredictably fringy. It also serves as an unpretentious guide to what is happening in dance south of 14th Street. The choreography is wildly varied. The heart of the event is the "Base Camp" program, which features dance by artists including Paul Matteson and Roger C. Jeffrey (Monday), Wil Swanson and Lisa Gonzales (Friday) and Robert Battle, Ivy Baldwin, Chris Elam and the Young Dancemakers (Saturday). Monday-Saturday. Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street. (718) 850-2488. www.dancenownyc.org

EVENING STARS FESTIVAL: TWYLA THARP DANCE -- Ms. Tharp takes us back to a more innocent time in dance with her 1970 "The One Hundreds," a piece meant to be performed in part by amateur dancers, who will be drawn here from politics, literature and the visual arts. Tuesday. Battery Park, State and Pearl Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 219-9401. www.lmcc.net

BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY -- The troupe begins its 20th year with a retrospective at the Kitchen, where it all began, followed early next year with an engagement at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, which gave the company its first major commission. Zane, who died in 1988, was a short, stubby white man who specialized in irony. Mr. Jones, who was Zane's partner off as well as on the stage, is a tall slender black man who believes in getting to the heart of things in his dances. Short pieces created by each and both of the men in the 1970's and 80's will be shown in this first season. The larger-scale and more recent works in the academy's season sound provocative, including the premiere of "Reading, Mercy and the Artificial Nigger," drawn from a short story by Flannery O'Connor. Also on the bill are "The Phantom Project: Still/Here Looking On," which uses sections of Mr. Jones's 1994 examination of mortality as a jumping-off point for a choreographic look back and forward, and "Another Another History of Collage," the last collaboration by Zane and Mr. Jones. Tuesday-Sept. 20. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street. (212) 255-5793. www.thekitchen.org. Feb. 3-7. Brooklyn Academy of Music. Also Feb. 20-22. New Jersey Performing Arts Center. www.billtjones.org

DANCER'S NIGHT OUT: RENEE REDDING JONES -- This ingenious series is devoted to dances created by vibrant performers. Ms. Jones, whose credits include the companies of Ronald K. Brown, Bebe Miller and David Rousseve, will present "Nudging Toward Normal," on a program shared with Karen Graham, who has danced with David Gordon and Mikhail Baryshnikov, and Heather Kravas, currently performing with Jennifer Allen and DD Dorvillier and Peter Jacobs's Human Future Dance Corps. Wednesday-Saturday. Dance Theater Workshop.

HEADLONG DANCE THEATER -- From Philadelphia, this bright and brash young Bessie Award-winning company will take a look at MTV culture and Dante in "Britney's Inferno," a piece presumably inspired by Ms. Spears that The Philadelphia Inquirer described as having "a hellish heart." Sept. 17-20. Dance Theater Workshop.

NEW YORK DANCE AND PERFORMANCE AWARDS -- This ceremony, at which Bessie Awards are given in just about every category of dance and performance-art activity, is open to everyone, though it is fundamentally less a public event than a jubilant and sometimes poignant celebration of a community. This year promises to be extra-memorable, however, given that the hosts are Julie Atlas Muz and Jennifer Miller, rightly described by event organizers as "two of New York's most outrageous hotpots." Sept. 19. Joyce Theater.

DANCING IN THE PARKS: RENNIE HARRIS PUREMOVEMENT -- Mr. Harris and his company have successfully made a sleek yet gritty new dance form by blending traditional modern and hip-hop dance. Performances of "Students of the Asphalt Jungle," a piece derived from old and new choreography, will inaugurate an outdoor dance series in Coffey Park in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn. Once a proud neighborhood of shipyards, Red Hook, despite some signs of gentrification, has not forgotten its colorful past, keeping it alive with eloquent dance by innovative choreographers like Mr. Harris, much of it presented by Dancing in the Streets. Sept. 20-21. Coffey Park, Dwight Street between Verona Street and Visitation Place, Red Hook, Brooklyn, (212) 625-3505.

MOMIX -- Moses Pendleton's dream adventure, the company called Momix, will perform its classics "Baseball," "Opus Cactus" and "Passion," whose themes are the great American pastime, the American West and its desert creatures, and love. Sept. 23-Oct. 12. Joyce Theater. Momix opens a Joyce season that runs through Aug. 21 and features performances by 37 companies and individuals, and still counting. The troupes performing this fall and spring include Garth Fagan Dance (Nov. 11-23), Maria Benitez Teatro Flamenco (Nov. 25-30); Les Ballets Jazz de Montreal (Dec. 2-7); Compagnie Marie Chouinard (Dec. 9-13); Savion Glover (Dec. 16-Jan. 4); James Sewell Ballet of Minneapolis (Jan. 20-25); Buglisi/Foreman Dance (Jan. 27-Feb. 1); Doug Varone and Dancers (Feb. 3-8); Compania Maria Pages (Feb. 24-29); Stephen Petronio Company (March 23-28); North Carolina Dance Theater (April 13-18); Philadanco (May 18-23), and BalletMet Columbus (May 25-30). Momix will also perform Jan. 25 at the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6200, and April 30-May 2 at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center.

PATRICK CORBIN AND DANCERS -- Mr. Corbin is a quietly powerful and intelligent dancer, a longtime member of the Paul Taylor Dance Company. Can he choreograph as well as he performs? He will present dances set to Bach, Part, Dvorakand the German composer Marsha Groethe with a group that includes the fellow Taylorites Michael Trusnovec and Julie Tice. Sept. 25-28. Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church.

'MOTION STUDIES' -- You may have to be a rocket scientist to understand how the new technologically inspired dance forms work, but it is possible simply to sit back and revel in the mystery of it all. This series of talks and exhibitions of drawings, sculpture, video and 3D animation projections begins with the kamikaze choreographer Elizabeth Streb (Sept. 29) and continues with programs on Twyla Tharp (Oct. 8) and on street performance, new media and public display (Nov. 12), ending with a program on electronically augmented space (Nov. 25). Participants include Ms. Streb, the dancer Sara Rudner, the anthropologist Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett and the digital artists Marek Walczak, Shelley Eshkar and Paul Kaiser. Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, 1 Wall Street Court, (212) 219-9401. www.lmcc.net

NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL: BALLETT FRANKFURT -- William Forsythe has made a name for himself as a dance iconoclast in the two decades he directed this German ballet company. The trickster titles are heartsinking, but the themes and styles of the four dances he will present here, which range from 1996 to last year, may suggest why. The breathing of eight dancers governs the rhythms of "The Room as It Was." Two women move in intricate and spiraling patterns in a small space at the front of the curtain in "Duo" and four men move through close physical counterpoint in "(N.N.N.N.)" Quick shifting tables form the set and dance floor in "One Flat Thing, reproduced." Sept. 30-Oct. 5. Brooklyn Academy of Music. A related article is on Page 15.

October

TERE O'CONNOR DANCE -- Is he the real turtle soup or only the mock? You either love Mr. O'Connor's enigmatic pieces or you don't. In this one, called "Lawn," environmental issues and the poetics of dance are said to meet head on. "Lawn" is a collaboration with the filmmaker Ben Speth, with whom the choreographer says he has shared a dialogue for years, and the composer James Baker, whose score is described as comprising electronically disfigured natural sounds. Oct. 1-4, 8-11 and 15-18. Dance Theater Workshop.

CARLOTTA SAGNA -- It's a sure thing that "A," the mysterious title of Ms. Sagna's piece, has nothing to do with badges of dishonor. Advance word is that Ms. Sagna, who choreographed two shows by the enterprising Belgian Needcompany, is probably addressing the downside of performing, like stage fright and post-euphoria confusion. Oct. 1-4. The Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, (212) 255-5793. www.thekitchen.org

WENDY ROGERS -- Ms. Rogers, who is known for subtle, intelligent modern-dance choreography, will investigate the shifting, merging boundaries of urban life and wilderness in her new "movement refuge," which will be performed by a group that includes Monica Bill Barnes and Allyson Green. Her program begins the fall season, which runs through Dec. 21, at Danspace Project. Oct. 2-5. Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church.

METROPOLITAN OPERA -- The company's Stravinsky program is back, featuring choreography by Frederick Ashton for "Rossignol" and by Doug Varone for "Le Sacre du Printemps." Opens Oct. 4. Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, 212 362-6000. www.metopera.org

PENNSYLVANIA BALLET -- This Balanchine centennial year is as good a time as any to acknowledge George Balanchine's help in building a stable foundation for American ballet. Not only did he create the New York City Ballet but he encouraged grants to select companies outside New York, among them this unassumingly vibrant troupe. The season, which continues through June, includes Ben Stevenson's "Dracula" and Christopher Wheelson's eagerly awaited production of "Swan Lake." Pennsylvania will also celebrate Balanchine with performances of "The Four Temperaments" and "Concerto Barocco." Also on the bill is the company premiere of Jerome Robbins's "Fancy Free." Oct. 8-12. Merriam Theater, University of the Arts, Philadelphia, (215) 336-2000. www.paballet.org

THE SUZANNE FARRELL BALLET -- Ms. Farrell selects dancers and dances as if she were choosing different kinds of caviar. The ensemble, sponsored by the Kennedy Center, will perform in several New York-area theaters before returning to its home theater in Washington, where it will present two programs in December. One program will consist of ballet set to Tchaikovsky as part of the theater's Tchaikovsky Festival. In the other, the company will explore the notion of the pas de deux couple, which Ms. Farrell believes is at the heart of Balanchine ballets. Oct. 11. New Jersey Performing Arts Center. Oct. 12. Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts at Brooklyn College, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Brooklyn. (718) 951-4500. www.brooklyncenter.com

NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL: MERCE CUNNINGHAM DANCE COMPANY -- Merce rocks! This time, to scores by Radiohead and Sigur Ros in his new "Split Sides," a choice of music that seems, mysteriously, to be stirring the henhouse even more than the reliably provocative John Cage. The decor is by Catherine Yass, the British photographer, and Robert Heishman, a high school student and photographer in Kansas whom Mr. Cunningham met on tour. Also on the bill, in this program celebrating the Cunningham company's 50th anniversary, is the New York premiere of "Fluid Canvas," with a score by John King and decor by Marc Downie along with the digital design team of Shelley Eshkar and Paul Kaiser, Mr. Cunningham's collaborators on the exquisitely beautiful "Biped." Oct. 14-18. Brooklyn Academy of Music.

AKRAM KHAN -- The brainy young Mr. Khan is a leading member of England's new modern-dance generation and a leading practitioner of the fusion of contemporary Western and classical Indian movement. His new "Kaash," which is Hindu for "if," draws on the Kathak style in dance inspired by Hindu gods, black holes, Indian time cycles, tablas and themes of creation and destruction. Oct. 14-19. Joyce Theater. The British mini-invasion, which provides a welcome chance to savor the healthy and individualistic modern-dance culture of that country, continues with performances by George Piper Dances troupe, founded only two years ago by the former Royal Ballet principal dancers William Trevitt and Michael Nunn. It is already equipped with a repertory that includes work by established choreographers like Russell Maliphant, William Forsythe and Christopher Wheeldon. Nov. 4-9. Another English choreographer, Richard Alston, will follow with his company in mid-May. Joyce Theater.

BOSTON BALLET -- The company, another beneficiary of Balanchine's early concern, begins its year in mid-month with two showings of Rudolf Nureyev's exuberant production of "Don Quixote" with a mixed bill of dances by George Balanchine and the English choreographer David Dawson sandwiched between. The season continues, through mid-May, with programs of dance by choreographers including Val Caniparoli and Mark Morris, performed by dancers who include the exquisite Cuban ballerina Lorna Feijoo, a new Boston principal dancer. Oct. 16-Nov. 2. Wang Theater, 270 Tremont Street, Boston. (800) 447-7400. www.bostonballet.com

BALLET NACIONAL DE CUBA -- These irresistible, beautifully schooled dancers suggest that the sometimes remote-seeming art of classical ballet is a fundamentally human activity. Under the direction of Alicia Alonso, they will present the full-evening "Don Quixote" and a program of romantic repertory, including Antonio Gades's "Blood Wedding," Ms. Alonso's staging of "Les Sylphides" and Azari Plisetski's "Canto Vital." Oct. 15-19. City Center.

RONALD K. BROWN/EVIDENCE -- Mr. Brown has become one of the most powerful choreographic voices of his generation. He has fused African and Western modern dance and come up with an influential style that is all heart, grace, skill and passion. His new "Come Ye" will celebrate the life and voice of Nina Simone. And how the years pass. Once a shiny-eyed youngster himself, Mr. Brown is now an avuncular role model who will present work from the company's repertory project by four fledgling choreographers, Lamine Thiam, Maria Basse Willes, Wilhemina Taylor and Richard Gonzales. Oct. 21-26. Joyce Theater.

NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL: SUSAN MARSHALL & COMPANY -- Ms. Marshall is probably best known for her acute, deft evocations of complex buried emotions in dances that suggest rather than tell a story. There's no getting around the tale abstracted in her "Sleeping Beauty," which will take place in a mazelike set, but this new work definitely won't look Disneyesque. Also on the bill is "Other Stories," a piece in which fragments of intimate dance are intercut to suggest what Ms. Marshall describes as the chaos of life and the communicative power of movement. Oct. 21-25. BAM Harvey Theater.

AMERICAN BALLET THEATER -- The company's fall season in New York will have the requisite marquee attractions, among them premieres of one sort or another of ballets by William Forsythe, Robert Hill, Jiri Kylian and Christian Spuck. I'll take the revivals, however, chief among them Frederick Ashton's luminous "Symphonic Variations" but also Antony Tudor's "Pillar of Fire" and Agnes de Mille's goofy "Three Virgins and a Devil." Another bit of repertory will be an excerpt from a new full-evening production of "Raymonda," created by Anna-Marie Holmes and the company director Kevin McKenzie, that will be the centerpiece of Ballet Theater's summer season. Oct. 22-Nov. 9. City Center. May 10-July 3. Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center. (212) 362-6000. The company will also present a full-evening "Bayadere" and a mixed-repertory program in Washington. Feb. 3-8. Kennedy Center. www.abt.org

REGGIE WILSON/FIST AND HEEL PERFORMANCE GROUP -- Mr. Wilson named his company after a term for the music American slaves accompanied themselves with as they continued to dance after drums were denied them. Mr. Wilson's choreographic explorations of the culture of his forebears, and the haunting traditional song-chants he chooses as accompaniment, have the raw power of that earlier artistic invention, as well as a covert tenderness. In the ambitious new "Black Burlesque (Revisited)," produced by Dance Theater Workshop and 651 Arts, Mr. Wilson collaborates with the Black Umfolosi a cappella singing group from Zimbabwe and the Noble Douglas Dance company of Trinidad. Oct. 22-Nov. 1. Dance Theater Workshop.

ARTHUR AVILES'S TYPICAL THEATER -- Mr. Aviles, a born -- and funky -- dance storyteller, will present two new works and excerpts from his "History Dances" project, a series of pieces drawn from the lives of lesbians, gay men and bisexuals living in Mr. Aviles's home neighborhood of the Bronx. Oct. 24. BAAD! (The Bronx Academy of Arts and Dance), 841 Barretto Street, Hunts Point, Bronx. (718) 842-5223. www.bronxacademyofartsanddance.org. "History Dances" will be seen in full on Nov. 24. Dance Theater Workshop.

CAREER TRANSITION FOR DANCERS -- This slinkiest and most jubilant of galas, this year called "Gotta Dance!: A Dance Tribute to Hollywood," will feature Alina Cojocaru and Johan Kobberg of England's Royal Ballet and dancers from many American ballet and modern-dance troupes including, delightfully, the all-male Ballets Grandiva. There will also be hosts and performers from the golden years of the Hollywood musical, among them Cyd Charisse, Donald O'Connor, Fayard Nicholas, Jane Powell and Esther Williams as well as the ineffably elegant Donald Saddler of Broadway fame, without whom no gala is quite gala enough. Oct. 27. City Center.

November

NOCHE FLAMENCA -- You don't see much dance at the Lucille Lortel, but the theater should be the perfect intimate setting for this company and its star dancer, Soledad Barrio, whose building passion each night is uncontainable anyway. Nov. 1-30. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street. (212) 239-6200.

ANNA SOKOLOW'S PLAYERS PROJECT -- Sokolow may have died, in 2000, but she has not been forgotten. Works by this famously cranky humanist will be performed by her company, along with a new work by David Parker, as part of the 92nd Street Y's "Sundays @ Three" series. Nov. 2. 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. (212) 415-5500. www.92y.org

KARI HOAAS -- From Norway, Ms. Hoaas addresses the myths of a consumerist utopia and the longing for heroes. Sounds timely. Nov. 6-9. Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street. (212) 477-5200. www.ps122.org

DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP: SPLITSTREAM -- More and more seasoned choreographers are turning to series devoted to the work of relative newcomers, as the expense of putting on a show gets further out of reach in a poor economy. That is the case with the SplitStream series this year. Nia Love, who is known for the intelligence, emotional energy and humor of her dances, will share the first of two programs with Ori Flomin and Osmany Tellez. Nov. 6-8. Next comes Pat Cremins, who creates mysterious microcosms out of anything from a tilted body to an animal skull, and then turns them upside down. She will be joined by Nichole Canuso and Yanira Castro. Nov. 13-15. Dance Theater Workshop.

MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY -- The company's hectic national and international touring schedule, pending the outcome of legal action brought against the troupe by Ron Protas, its former director, includes two New York area engagements. The first, at Purchase College, will include performances of "Satyric Festival Song," "Deep Song," "Maple Leaf Rag," "Embattled Garden" and Graham's stunningly simple, cinematic "Chronicle." Nov. 7. The Performing Arts Center at Purchase College, Purchase, N.Y. (914) 251-6200. The company will perform in New York City in late April in "Chronicle," "El Penitente," "Errand into the Maze" and revivals of the erotic "Circe" and the playful "Owl and the Pussycat." April 20-25. City Center. www.marthagrahamdance.org

MARJORIE GAMSO -- This cheerfully unpredictable dance and video artist has been marching to her own experimentalist drumbeat for several decades. Now she's back at Construction Company, an intimate free-ranging theater and exhibition space that tends to serve as a home for the uncategorizable (Nov. 9). The fall season continues with programs by Barbara Mahler (Nov. 16-17), Sally Silvers (Nov. 23) and Ariane Anthony and Jeffrey Bauer (Dec. 6-8). Construction Company, 10 East 18th Street. (212) 924-7882.

'CAPTURED: A VIDEODANCE SERIES' -- Up to now, the Dance on Camera festival at Lincoln Center each January has been it as far as dance film series go in New York City. Now Dance Theater Workshop is making the most of its new high-tech video equipment with screenings of experimental dance videos, part of an informative-sounding series of discussions and informal showings at the workshop called "Beyond the Main Stage." Nov. 10 and Dec. 1.

KRASNOYARSK NATIONAL DANCE COMPANY OF SIBERIA -- Krasnoyarsk, one of the leading practitioners of Russian folk dance and music, fills the stage with kaleidoscopic colors and patterns in acrobatic dance with ballet underpinnings. Nov. 15. Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, Bedford Park Boulevard West and Goulden Avenue, Bronx. (718) 960-8833.

MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP -- One of the most celebrated choreographers of his time, Mr. Morris is a rumpled individualist whose dances have his gutsy, why-not energy and color. The work of an artist who clearly loves music, the pieces are set to unusual scores that are always performed live. Nov. 29-30. New Jersey Performing Arts Center. www.mmdg.org

BALLET HISPANICO -- The company founder Tina Ramirez and her dancers celebrate things Latin, including the tango and ballroom and club-dance forms, with the sleek cool of classical ballet. The company inaugurates the 900-seat Skirball Center at New York University with this season. Nov. 11-16. Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, La Guardia Place at Washington Square South, (212) 992-8484. Also March 5-7. New Jersey Performing Arts Center.

NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL: ANNE TERESA DE KEERSMAEKER -- Every season should have an engagement by Ms. de Keersmaeker and her Brussels-based Rosas troupe, which keeps the blood flowing speedily to the brain, aesthetically speaking. The company will perform her "Rain," created in 2001 and inspired by the novel of the same name, written by the New Zealander Kirsty Gunn, which tells the story of a child's drowning. Seventy minutes of uninterrupted motion, "Rain" is set to music by Steve Reich, Ms. de Keersmaeker's frequent choice of composer, and has been described by an English reviewer as looking like "wind streaking the surface of water." Nov. 12-15. Brooklyn Academy of Music.

DANCE CUBA -- Most dancegoers think Alicia Alonso when they hear the term "Cuban dance," but this all-female company is celebrated in Cuba for its fiery mix of flamenco, ballet and Afro-Cuban music, in choreography by the company director, Lizt Alfonso. Nov. 14-30. New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street. (212) 239-6200. www.newvictory.org

NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL: CLOUD GATE THEATER OF TAIWAN -- Lin Hwai-min, the company's choreographer and director, specializes in large-scale evocative spectacle of a sort seldom seen in today's modern dance. His "Moon Water," inspired by a Buddhist proverb about the elusive nature of reflected images of flowers and the moon, eventually sprawls out across a stage described as looking like a vast liquid mirror, inhabited by drenched dancers in billowing costumes. Nov. 18-22. Brooklyn Academy of Music.

ELISA MONTE DANCE -- Ms. Monte is known for dance that assumes the sexual component of being a woman. Her new "Shekhina," inspired by the erotic photographs of Leonard Nimoy -- yes, that one -- will be the centerpiece of her company's New York winter season, which will also include performances of "Light Lies," Ms. Monte's recent homage to the painter Josef Albers, and her classic "Treading." Nov. 19-22. Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, La Guardia Place at Washington Square South. (212) 992-8484.

'BALANCHINE 100: THE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION AT NEW YORK CITY BALLET' -- This ambitious festival will take place at the New York State Theater, City Ballet's home at Lincoln Center, and arenas around the city, through the spring. The company has sorted the Balanchine oeuvre -- some 81 dances -- still in repertory into two segments. Ballets performed during "Balanchine's Heritage," which occurs during the latter part of the winter season, will suggest the artists, eras and places that influenced the choreographer, among them Petipa, Diaghilev, Bournonville and Broadway. The winter season opens with a gala on Nov. 25, then moves into Balanchine's standard-setting production of "The Nutcracker," a ballet in which he danced as a young student at the Maryinsky Theater. Nov. 28-Jan. 4. The balance of the winter season will consist of "Heritage' programming. It includes an evening-long commissioned work by Susan Stroman in honor of Balanchine's musical-theater choreography and early and mid-period Balanchine ballets. The company will also perform the company director Peter Martins's productions of "Swan Lake" and "The Sleeping Beauty." The City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet students will dance Michel Fokine's "Chopiniana." The repertory will also include August Bournonville's "Flower Festival in Genzano" as well as works by Balanchine that were influenced by Bournonville ballets. Jan. 6-Feb. 29. The second segment, "Vision," will include new works by Christopher Wheeldon, Boris Eifman and Mr. Martins, and 42 ballets by Balanchine. The repertory will be performed in three mini-festivals centering around music by European, American and Russian composers. April 27-June 27. (212) 870-5570. www.nycballet.com. Balanchine's work processes and early archival history will be probed in events next year in New York City at the Guggenheim Museum, the Museum of Television and Radio, the New York Public Library, Symphony Space, the Manhattan School of Music and a city park, as well as on the PBS "American Masters" television series. There will also be events at Harvard University and the San Francisco Performing Arts Library, and at least 20 American ballet companies will present tribute performances. www.balanchine.org

DANCE THEATER OF HARLEM -- Michael Smuin's sumptuous "St. Louis Woman: A Blues Ballet" sweeps over the eye and mind like a wash of warm and brilliant color, sweet and sad as the blues. Nov. 29-30. New Jersey Performing Arts Center. Also Dec. 14. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, C.W. Post Campus, Brookville, N.Y. (516) 299-3100. www.tillescenter.org. June 8-13. Kennedy Center. www.dancetheatreofharlem.com

December

ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER -- These wonderfully warm, do-or-die performers could probably get away with dancing the Staten Island telephone directory. Instead, they will perform in premieres by Robert Battle, Alonzo King, Jennifer Muller and Dwight Rhoden and in new productions of "Hymn," Judith Jamison's poignant evocation of Ailey himself, and the Donald McKayle classic "Rainbow 'Round My Shoulder," as well as a host of Ailey dances. Dec. 3-Jan. 4. City Center. Also May 5-7. New Jersey Performing Arts Center. www.alvinailey.org

CENTRAL STATION AT DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP -- This festival, created by the workshop but taking place at three downtown dance theaters, celebrates the work of choreographers from Eastern and Central Europe and the strength of modern dance there. The series begins with dances by Cosmin Manolescu of Romania, Galina Borissova of Bulgaria and Marta Ladjanszki of Hungary. Dec. 3-6. Next comes Sasha Pepelyaev, from Estonia, and Peeter Jalakas, from Russia, with a deconstructed "Swan Lake" performed by the Von Krahl Theater. Dec. 10-13. Dance Theater Workshop.

CENTRAL STATION AT PERFORMANCE SPACE 122 -- The philosophers of Croatian modern dance, the BADco troupe will present "Solo Me," a "solo" for two people that explores individuality and duality. Dec. 4-7. Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street. (212) 477-5200. www.ps122.org

CENTRAL STATION AT DANSPACE PROJECT -- Ioana Popovici, from Romania, begins the final segment of the festival with "Requiem for a Dog." Dec. 12-14. United Dancers of ZUGA, an Estonian modern-dance company, complete the festival offerings with choreography by Kaja Kann, Jarmo Karing and Tiina Molder. Dec. 19-21. Danspace Project at St. Marks Church.

NEXT WAVE PROJECT: DAYTON CONTEMPORARY DANCE COMPANY -- "The Flight Project," a suite of dances commissioned by this Ohio-based company to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Wright Brothers' first flight, sounds like a marketer's dream. But the choice of guest choreographers for the two-program project is inspired, including as it does some of the era's strongest dance voices. The choreographers are Jawole Willa Jo Zollar, Bill T. Jones and Warren Spears (Program A) and Dwight Rhoden, Bebe Miller and Doug Varone (Program B). Dec. 9-13. BAM Harvey Theater.

KIROV BALLET -- The august Russians will celebrate Tchaikovsky with their version of two of the classics. "The Nutcracker" will be performed during the first week, with "Swan Lake" following. Dec. 23-Jan. 4. Kennedy Center.

2004

FUGATE/BAHIRI BALLET NY -- This chamber ballet troupe, directed by Judith Fugate, a former New York City Ballet principal, and Medhi Bahiri, will present an unusual mix of rarities and new pieces danced by a company of seasoned pros. To start, there is Antony Tudor's seldom-seen "Continuo," and a new work by the promising Thaddeus Davis that will be set to a recording by Bobby McFerrin of Vivaldi and Bach. There will also be a work by Ann Marie DeAngelo, of Joffrey Ballet fame, and Peter Martins, along with George Balanchine's high-calorie sweet, "Valse Fantaisie." Jan. 8-10. Symphony Space, Broadway at 95th Street. (212) 864-5400. www.symphonyspace.org

NEW YORK FLAMENCO FESTIVAL -- A surprise hit last season, this knowledgeable and ambitious collection of flamenco dancers and musicians will perform at three Manhattan theaters. The opening benefit, Gala de Sevilla, will feature artists including Manuela Carrasco, El Chocolate, the Gypsies of Jerez, Israel Galvan and Arcangel. They wil be followed by the Ballet Flamenco Sara Baras (Jan. 30), the Compania Andaluza de Danza (Jan. 31-Feb. 1). Jan. 29-Feb. 1. City Center. www.worldmusicinstitute.org

ROYAL DANISH BALLET -- The company doesn't visit the New York area very often so this engagement is an occasion for balletomanes who cherish the Danish dancers' distinctively light, quick, spirited way of moving. Even more of an inducement is that August Bournonville's full "Napoli" will be performed, along with a mixed-repertory second program. Jan. 13-18. Kennedy Center. A smaller touring group from the company will also perform at several East Coast theaters. Jan. 29. New Jersey Performing Arts Center.

BLACK DANCE: TRADITION AND TRANSFORMATION -- Some of the richest and most promising developments in recent modern dance have come from black choreographers, several of whom draw on dance and music forms from Africa and the Caribbean. This series has provided a rare window on new dance in Africa as well as work by black American artists. Participating in the latest installment, "Movement (R)evolution: New African Dance," are the Compagnie Rary from Madagascar, Compagnie Kongo Ba Teria from Burkina Faso and Sello Pesa from South Africa. Feb. 6-7. BAM Harvey Theater. www.651arts.org

HAMBURG BALLET -- John Neumeier, the company's choreographer and director, will explore the fertile but familiar ground of Vaslav Nijinsky's inner and outer worlds in his "Nijinsky." But the company rarely comes through New York. And the subject seems inexhaustible, with all the right ingredients: sex, tormented genius and a nagging wife. Feb. 19-22. City Center.

SARAH MICHELSON -- This dark-souled hipster, who startled audiences with her serendipitous "Shadowmann" last year, will once again collaborate with the composer Mike Iveson in a new performance-art piece. Feb. 19-29. La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street. (212) 475-7710.www.lamama.org

92 ON 42: THE 92ND STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE PROJECT AT THE DUKE ON 42ND STREET -- Now in its 10th year, the festival opens in late February with a week of performances by artists associated with "From the Horse's Mouth," an invaluable and often very moving series in which dancers and choreographers talk with vivid informality, as they perform, about their work and its context in dance history. The festival will also include weeklong seasons by nicholasleichterdance; Johannes Wieland, the Wally Cardona Quartet and David Dorfman Dance. Feb. 25-March 28. The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 415-5500. www.92y.org

ARMITAGE GONE! DANCE -- The most bracing and irritating of younger experimentalists, Karole Armitage, the former Merce Cunningham dancer who is also known as "the punk ballerina," is back with "The Five Boroughs of Dance," a weeklong collaboration with dancers of different social, aesthetic and racial backgrounds. This sounds familiar, but given Ms. Armitage's nutty imagination the multi-culti will probably look decidedly unculti. March 2-7. Joyce Theater.

PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY -- Mr. Taylor, that irremediably young old-master modernist, will present two new pieces and a rich repertory that ranges from the lyrical early "Aureole" and later "Airs" to the melancholy "Sunset" and lusty "Piazzolla Caldera." Even more enticing is the return of his 1956 "3 Epitaphs," a dance for lumbering beasts to lolloping Dixieland brass band that captures all Mr. Taylor's dark imagination and humor and manages, more and more, to look mighty avant-garde. March 2-14. City Center.

PETER BOAL & FRIENDS -- One of the great pleasures of City Ballet-watching has been seeing the deepening of Mr. Boal's considerable gifts, chief among them his innate-seeming classicism and his intelligence. That intelligence may be what has driven him over the last decade to collaborate with choreographers and dancers with decidedly different aesthetics, most often Molissa Fenley. Mr. Boal is back to ballet but with his own chamber company, consisting of Wendy Whelan and Sean Suozzi, also of City Ballet. The repertory includes works by Twyla Tharp and Marco Goecke. March 16-21. Joyce Theater.

ROD RODGERS DANCE COMPANY -- The modern-dance choreography of this undersung original, who diedlast year, will be the subject of a four-day retrospective and benefit for the troupe and the Rodgers studio. March 25-28. La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, (212) 475-7710. www.lamama.org

NEW YORK THEATER BALLET -- This chamber dance company may be small, but it has kept dance history alive with its resonant productions of nearly lost or infrequently seen dance, chiefly by Antony Tudor. John Taras's "Design for Strings" will be the centerpiece of its spring revivals program. April 23. Florence Gould Theater, 55 East 59th Street, (212) 307-4100.

MARGOT FONTEYN: A CELEBRATION -- American dancegoers often fell in love with ballet after seeing this delicate, steel-stemmed flower perform in classics of the English and Russian ballet, from the mid-1930's into the 1960's. A muse to artists as diverse as Frederick Ashton and Rudolf Nureyev, Fonteyn will be celebrated in an exhibition that is part of the Ashton Centennial at the heart of the 2004 Lincoln Center Festival. May 18-Sept. 3. Vincent Astor Gallery, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-1630. www.nypl.org

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill T. Jones and Arnie Zane in "Blauvelt Mountain." The Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company has a retrospective at the Kitchen, and also appears at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, in February. (Photo by N. Tileston)(pg. 17); Reggie Wilson/Fist and Heel Performance Group presents "Black Burlesque (Revisited) at Dance Theater Workshop next month. (pg. 20); Cloud Gate Theater of Taiwan performs at BAM in November. (Photo by Gert Weigelt); Miki Orihara, Christophe Jeannot and Tadej Brdnik of the Martha Graham Dance Company in Graham's "Embattled Garden." (Photo by Nan Melville)(pg. 22) Drawings (Drawings by Mark Ulriksen)(pg. 17, 18, 20, 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); DANCERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%) Dancing

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (59%)

PERSON: Jennifer Dunning

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



143 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
45 Rentals Planned for Neglected Area in Norwich

BYLINE:  By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

DATELINE: NORWICH 

 BODY:
ON a historic hilltop overlooking this city's downtown and its harbor, two old and neglected houses are getting a makeover and some new neighbors. A local developer has won city approval for a $6 million project on Jail Hill that will create 45 new apartments in seven buildings off Cedar Street.
 Much of the land consists of ledges or is overgrown and was divided into parcels that were too small to interest most developers. But over the last year, Darwin C. Gebbie, owner of P&D Enterprises in neighboring Lebanon, which specializes in renovations and rental property development, has assembled almost four acres in six different purchases, including some sites that were in foreclosure. He now controls most of the hilltop, which towers 210 feet above the Thames River. 
 He plans to construct Harbor View Estates, five new three-story brownstones with a total of 40 two-bedroom units, and renovate two existing historic houses into a mix of one- and two-bedroom apartments. 
Mr. Gebbie's plans have won accolades from a number of city officials. The city planner, William R. Sweeney, noted that among the many housing projects proposed in recent months, most have been on "greenfields," virgin land on the city's fringes.
"Jail Hill is a part of town that's seen better days," Mr. Sweeney said. "To see this kind of reinvestment into this neighborhood is a real positive sign. This is going to give us some really high quality apartments immediately adjacent to downtown. He put something together that a lot of developers wouldn't have taken the time to do."
Mr. Sweeney said he was particularly pleased that Mr. Gebbie agreed to restore one of the houses on the property, the Rev. Seth Paddock house, named for the 19th-century preacher who once lived there. It is believed to be the first house on Jail Hill, an area named for the jail established there in 1830, when it was a mostly vacant section of town. The second house to be restored is known as the Cook house. The entire neighborhood is a National Historical District because of old houses there.
"He originally looked at tearing the Paddock house down to make room for development, but when he found out through the state Historical Commission that it had some real historic value, he immediately changed his plan and integrated it into his development," Mr. Sweeney said.
Another official, Peter W. Davis, director of planning and neighborhood services in Norwich, said, "It was nice to have a developer come to the city and show so much respect for its historical resources." 
Mr. Davis said the architecture of the neighborhood is a mix of Federal style, a few Greek Revivals and Colonials and some 1970's houses.
U SING new building materials can't replicate the buildings that are there exactly," Mr. Davis said. "But he was sensitive to the style of housing in the neighborhood and tried to honor the character of the neighborhood."
Mr. Gebbie said that renovating the historic buildings would be more costly than razing them and building anew, but the old buildings make the project distinctive. One building had to be jacked up so the sills could be replaced, for instance, but he was also able to salvage six of the eight original fireplaces.
"I've saved a lot of historic buildings," Mr. Gebbie said. "This is what I enjoy doing." In more than 30 years in the real estate business, he has built a strong local reputation for preservation, renovating the Fitchville Inn and Peterson House in Bozrah, some mill houses in the Baltic section of Sprague and some early 19th-century residences in Jewett City.
"It's always the easy answer to knock it down and start over," Mr. Gebbie said. "Anybody can build a new house, but it takes a different kind of person to save an old house."
Mr. Gebbie said it took about 15 months to lay the groundwork for the Jail Hill project.
"In May of last year, my Realtor called me and said, 'Darwin, I have a project you're going to want to take a look at,' " Mr. Gebbie said. "So we went up there and we were there for an hour, taking in the view of the water and the city, before the first car went by. It's a beautiful site, no traffic, and I asked her, 'How could anyone not have seen this before -- the potential that this project has?' "
The broker was Denise C. Robillard, president of Continental Realty in Jewett City, who has worked with Mr. Gebbie several times over the years. "He does a lot of restoration work, and I knew right away this was a Darwin Gebbie project," Ms. Robillard said. "I knew he could do it, he could handle it and he could make it something nice that would lift up that whole section of Norwich. He's always looking for ways to improve an area."
At his behest, she began negotiating with abutting property owners.
"When we started to look at how many properties we could put together, then we really started to see the potential of what could happen up there," Ms. Robillard said. 
Mr. Gebbie said one of the properties had a house that had been on the city's list of blighted properties, which he acquired through a foreclosure.
"I had to pay more for it than it was worth, but if that building had remained and continued to be an eyesore, it would have devalued my property and the buildings I was putting in," Mr. Gebbie said. Similarly, one of the parcels will serve little purpose other than guaranteeing the views for his tenants for years to come, but it was important for the overall aesthetic effect.
"With all of these parcels together it's going to be a beautiful, charming site," Mr. Gebbie said.
Mr. Sweeney, the city planner, said: "I like this project, personally, because of the mix that it represents. It's not only new construction and historic renovation. You can also make the argument that it's about combating urban blight. It's a real unique mix of economic development in a very historic neighborhood."
Mr. Gebbie said he expected to set the rents at $1,000 to $1,100 a month, fairly typical rents in the current market.
Mr. Gebbie already owns more than 100 units of rental housing in towns in the Norwich area. He said as recently as the 1990's the housing market might not have supported this project -- a few years ago, he was lucky to maintain current rents when a tenant moved out, even though his own costs for taxes and insurance and maintenance were increasing. 
But the housing market tightened considerably with the economic impact of Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun, two thriving casinos within a 10-minute drive of the downtown.
"You can place an ad in the paper now for just two days and you get so many calls you can never get back to everybody," Mr. Gebbie said. "It's not unusual to get 50 or 60 calls, the demand is so high."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathleen M. LaCombe, the architect, and Darwin C. Gebbie of P&D Enterprises at the Seth Paddock house. (Photo by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) Map of Connecticut shows the location of Norwich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HISTORY (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (77%); FORECLOSURE (73%); CITIES (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (72%) Housing

ORGANIZATION: P&D Enterprises

PERSON: Robert A Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%) Norwich (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



144 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/Readers' Questions; 
House and Garden, and Offices With a Penthouse

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
 230 East 50th Street

Q -- For many years, I have walked past a very unusual and attractive prewar apartment building on 50th Street in Midtown, and I am curious if you can provide some history or other information on this structure. The address is 230 East 50th Street. . . . Russell Raman, Manhattan.

A -- Colton Hall was built in 1927 by the developer Keitt P. Walker, who did several other buildings, like 1088 Park Avenue, with its unusual courtyard garden.
 For Colton Hall, the architects Leonard Cox and Arthur C. Holden developed a simple facade of subdued modernism, dominated by the steel casement windows, especially the oversized ones marking double-height spaces in the duplex units.
Consonant with Walker's other developments, the architects for Colton Hall made a particular effort with the rear garden, which was flagged and planted and given a fountain, unusual for a New York apartment building, where the rear yards are usually treated as a desert of concrete and garbage pens. 
Walker's organization, the Garden Plan Company, also built 333 East 57th Street, 350 East 57th Street and 325 East 72nd Street around this time.
All were co-ops, like Colton Hall, and most were built with very shallow lot coverage, slightly more than 50 percent, instead of the usual 75 percent or so, allowing a comparative flood of light and air. 
In 1928, Marcia Zimbalist, in her Penthouse column in The New Yorker, praised the garden on the roof, where "you and your friends can take tea and the air on one half of the roof while your children behave as noisily as you have trained them to on their particular half." 
Duplexes had "a glorious living room, two stories high, with a gallery and the most intriguing flight of toy stairs you can imagine," she said. The prices for the duplexes ran from $25,000 to $29,000, she said, but they were also for rent at around $450 a month. 
An early tenant list shows mostly Midtown businessmen and businesswomen, like Sarah Field Splint. Over her career in publishing, Splint was editor or assistant editor of The Delineator, Today's Housewife, McCall's and Women's Home Companion and wrote at least one cookbook. 
Talbot Hamlin, writing in the magazine Pencil Points in 1939, thought that Colton Hall was "indecisive in its choice of whether to be a conventional colonial or a frankly revolutionary and modern building" but praised the "imaginative planning for economy, beauty and convenience." Although more than 10 years old, the building's unusual solutions "still deserve study," Hamlin said, especially for the shallow lot coverage, which provided cross-ventilation and much better light than in the typical building. 

729 Seventh Avenue

Q -- An article from Pioneer Western Lumberman of 1917 describes an "aerial bungalow built for a theater couple on top of the Godfrey Building." Where is the Godfrey Building, and how common was such an arrangement? . . . R. Price Jepsen, architect, Manhattan.

A -- The Godfrey Building was put up in 1916 for the film industry, and still stands at 729 Seventh Avenue, on the southeast corner of 49th Street.
Some penthouse apartments on commercial buildings existed in the 19th century, like one on top of the 1898 Bowling Green Building at 5-11 Broadway. But that one was for a resident superintendent, as were most other known examples. 
In 1912, Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet developed a similar project by demolishing his old row house and others on the lot at the southeast corner of 29th Street and Madison Avenue and building a 16-story commercial building. He reserved a penthouse on the top floor, which he occupied until his death in 1920. But such residential units were quite rare. 
The 49th and Seventh site was owned by the Godfrey family, which leased it to the developer George Backer, who built the Heckscher/Crown building at 57th Street and Fifth Avenue a few years later. 
Backer retained Arthur Loomis Harmon, a sensitive designer who especially appreciated the picturesque possibilities of variegated brickwork. Harmon gave his 16-story building a medieval cast, with a projecting top-floor balcony like those seen on castles for defense, and small crosses of projecting brick on the facade, enhancing the fortified aspect. 
In 1916, the magazine Brickbuilder called the Godfrey Building "an extraordinary piece of architecture" and "something of great originality.' 
The New York Times reported that the new Godfrey Building was organized exclusively for motion picture companies, with special film vaults and a screening room. A photograph published in 1919 in American Architect shows delicate storefronts in copper or perhaps ironwork, and the signs of film industry tenants in the upper floors.
Periodical articles do not refer to any top-floor residential unit, but in 1916 Backer filed an alteration application to add a penthouse.
The article in Pioneer Western Lumberman, "A Bungalow in the Clouds," mentions the rooftop apartment as built for "a newly wedded pair whose affiliations are theatrical and who are blending at this altitude stage stares and celestial stars." 
One of the earliest tenants in the Godfrey Building was the Pickford Film Company, founded by Mary Pickford; she later founded United Artists with Douglas Fairbanks, Charlie Chaplin and others.
By 1916, Pickford was deep in a love affair with Fairbanks and, according to Eileen Whitfield's "Pickford: The Woman Who Made Hollywood" (University Press of Kentucky, 1997), she signed a new contract with Adolph Zukor that included a "private studio in New York." 
But if the 1917 article is accurate in describing the two as "newly wedded," then the star couple cannot have been the penthouse's tenants -- they were married in 1920. 
Leslie Himmel, who owns the property with Stephen Meringoff, says that the 2,000-square-foot penthouse still survives as offices but has no remarkable features. "It has great light, but otherwise it's just plain vanilla," she says.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The apartment building at 230 East 50th Street in 1939, above, and today (inset). (Photo by Library of Congress); (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times); The Godfrey Building, at Seventh Avenue and 49th Street, in 1919. It was built for film company offices, with an "aerial bungalow built for a theater couple on top." (Photo by Library of Congress) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); GARDENING (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (60%) Housing; Godfrey Building (NYC); Office Buildings and Commercial Properties

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (84%)

PERSON: Christopher Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



145 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
Converting Rental Buildings

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
WHILE the number of rental buildings being converted to co-ops or condominiums is nowhere near the level of the 1970's and 80's, conversions still occur and navigating the twists and turns of the process can be stressful, confusing and frustrating. Only 14 conversions took place in the years 2000, 2001 and 2002, involving about 600 apartments, but condominium lawyers say they are noticing an increase in the filings this year.
 "Regardless of whether you have any interest in purchasing your apartment and regardless of your status as rent-regulated or free-market tenant, you should be very concerned whenever the building you are in is being converted," said Stuart M. Saft, a Manhattan lawyer who is chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums. 
 Mr. Saft noted that while state law protects existing tenants in most conversions, the protections do not apply to all tenants equally, or they apply to a greater or lesser degree depending on the type of conversion. 
Moreover, he said, since the interests of tenants who will be purchasing their apartments may not be the same as those of residents who intend to remain as rental tenants, it is important for individuals in both groups to have professional guidance.
At the same time, however, since all tenants in a building have a common interest at the early stages of the conversion -- basically, to negotiate the best terms possible -- -- it is usually advisable for residents to form a tenants' committee.
"Membership in the tenants' committee is for everyone," Mr. Saft said, "regardless of whether you wish to stay on as a rental tenant or if you wish to buy or if you think you may want to sell your rights to buy at some future time." 
Mr. Saft said the first step in the conversion process in New York is the filing of the preliminary offering plan (commonly known as a "red herring" because of the red printing on the cover) with the office of the state attorney general. The office then has four to six months to issue initial comments on the red herring; after that, the sponsor will submit a revised plan. "The tenants are not a party to the review process," Mr. Saft said, adding that the entire review can take about one year.
Once the attorney general's office has determined that the plan contains "full disclosure" of the conversion, it will accept the plan for filing. Once the plan is accepted for filing, the tenants receive a final offering plan (or a "black book" because of the absence of red ink on the cover). 
Mr. Saft emphasized that under the law, the acceptance by the attorney general's office of a plan for filing does not mean the plan is fair or even economically viable. "It must only contain a full disclosure of the terms of the plan and the condition of the building," he said. In fact, Mr. Saft said, neither the attorney general's office nor any other governmental agency "approves" an offering plan or insures that the plan is fair or equitable or that the prices the sponsor is asking for apartments in the building have any relationship to the actual fair market value of those apartments. 
"Each tenant has the exclusive right to agree to purchase the apartment in which he resides for 90 days after the black book is presented," Mr. Saft said. 
Most conversions in New York, Mr. Saft said, are what are known as "noneviction plan conversions." Basically, this means that in exchange for agreeing to allow existing tenants to remain in occupancy -- and enjoy the protections of the rent laws -- the sponsor can begin selling apartments (or "declare the plan effective") when he or she has obtained agreements to sell at least 15 percent of the residential units in the building to tenants in occupancy or to outside purchasers who intend to reside in units they have purchased -- usually people who are buying vacant apartments. By law sponsors are allowed to keep up to 10 percent of the units vacant for sale to outsiders.
"If the sponsor is unable to declare the plan effective within 15 months, the plan is deemed abandoned," Mr. Saft said.
(The "eviction plan" conversion, which requires agreement from 51 percent of apartments and allows eviction of those who do not purchase, is rarely used.)
Arthur I. Weinstein, another Manhattan lawyer and vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums, said that since the sponsor needs agreements to sell at least 15 percent of the apartments in a building to be able to declare the plan effective and schedule closings, the tenants in the building -- including prospective purchasers and renters alike -- have leverage to negotiate with the sponsor for the best terms possible. 
Mr. Weinstein said it is at this point in time, after the plan has been accepted for filing, that tenants and future apartment owners can negotiate with the sponsor to amend the final offering plan to ensure, for example, that enough money is placed in the building's reserve fund -- an account for future repairs and improvements. It is also possible for tenants who intend to buy their units to negotiate a better price with the sponsor. 
Mr. Weinstein said those tenants who decide not to buy their apartments generally have the right to remain in their apartment as long as they continue to pay rent and abide by the terms of their lease.
Rent-stabilized and rent-controlled tenants, he said, are entitled to continue their tenancy on the same terms and conditions they enjoy under their current tenancy and are then entitled to a renewal lease at the end of each lease term, with rent increases as permitted by law. Such tenants are also entitled to the same "succession rights" as other rent-regulated tenants, meaning that the right to remain in the apartment as a tenant can be passed along to spouses and, in some cases, children, other family members and domestic partners. 
The rights of tenants who are nonregulated "market rate tenants" at the time of the conversion, are slightly different. Mr. Weinstein explained that while such tenants may not be evicted unless they violate the terms of their lease, they can be required to pay market rate rents when their current lease expires.
Mr. Saft, who along with Mr. Weinstein conducts seminars for tenants in buildings undergoing conversions, noted that regardless of whether a tenant plans to buy his or her unit or remain in the building as a rental tenant, he or she should be cognizant about the physical condition of the building. 
"The sponsor or future unit owners can decide to do renovations to the building, such as installing new elevators or new windows," he said, adding that such improvements could result in "major capital improvement" rent increases for nonpurchasing tenants, as well as increased maintenance charges for apartment owners. 
In addition, he said, once the plan is declared effective, the apartments of renters who remain can still be sold by the sponsor, subject, of course, to the right of the tenant to remain in the unit. And while that will be a risky proposition for the buyer, who has to wait for the tenant to vacate the apartment, it can also be a major inconvenience for tenants. "This means people coming into your apartment, looking around, examining the premises and upsetting your daily life."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (85%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%) Housing; Condominiums; Cooperatives; Renting and Leasing

PERSON: Jay Romano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



146 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Long Island; 
Upscale Shopping Centers Without Usual Anchors

BYLINE:  By CAROLE PAQUETTE

 BODY:
DISPENSING with their traditional anchors, two longtime shopping centers in wealthy areas of Nassau County are finding room for more high-end stores by subdividing space that had formerly been occupied by supermarkets. 
 While traditional shopping centers depend on anchor stores to bring in customers, upscale centers like the Americana Manhasset and Woodbury Village do not, retailing experts say. 
 "Does Rodeo Drive need a supermarket?" asked Alvin J. Rosenstein, a marketing and business professor at Adelphi University in Garden City. "In effect, these upscale centers are upscale department stores with an upscale selection." Dr. Rosenstein is a consumer psychologist and a retail consultant whose clients have included J. C. Penney, General Foods and the New York Stock Exchange. 
"Shoppers want convenience and if they want upscale convenience, it's a waste of time putting in something that is not upscale," he said.
"There's a synergy here" for shopping center managers, he added. "The more upscale brands they bring in, the better positioning they acquire as an ultimate resource for the upscale shopper seeking a broad selection of prestigious brands."
Marshall Felenstein, president of the retail consulting firm Felenstein, Was & Associates in Manhattan, said, "While the Woodbury center is not as unique as Americana, which is so upscale that in order to compete you'd have to come to Manhattan, I think both shopping centers will be very successful because they are enhancing their critical mass for their day-to-day customers."
In Manhasset the 47-year-old Americana shopping center has redivided a 40,000-square-foot space that had included a Waldbaum's supermarket and six adjacent stores into nine stores occupied by such high-end international retailers as Gucci, Christian Dior and Yves Saint Laurent. The new stores opened last week.
Manhasset and its surrounding communities, including Sands Point, Old Brookville, Munsey Park, Plandome and Old Westbury, were listed last year by Worth magazine as among the 250 richest communities in America. The annual average household income of the Americana customer is above $150,000, according to Deirdre Costa Major, the creative director.
The 220,000-square-foot center was developed in 1956 by Castagna Realty on a 16-acre parcel along Northern Boulevard, a major North Shore road. There are 45 stores in the center, which had always had a supermarket as an anchor on its eastern end. 
AMERICANA was originally named Fifth Avenue of Long Island by Frank Castagna, an owner. Castagna Realty began in 1922 as a construction company and built a number of notable Long Island buildings, including the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum and the University Hospital at Stony Brook. 
The plan for high-end leases at the original Manhasset center "didn't go through," Ms. Major said, "so at that time we did the best we could to fill it up, and we had two supermarkets." In 1983 the first upscale store, Brooks Brothers, came in and then the Armani line was added to Hirshleifer's, which carries designer women's clothing. 
The architect Peter Marino of Manhattan, who designed Barneys New York on Madison Avenue, was brought in "to create a concept for the sophisticated and affluent area," she said. One store at a time, the old facades were removed and new limestone buildings with a town house effect and granite sidewalks were created.
Three years ago, the lease expired for the 29,000-square-foot anchor space occupied by Waldbaum's supermarket since 1959. Last year, the store was demolished and construction began on the new building.
Tenants include the 185-year-old Brooks Brothers, which is moving from a 10,000-square-foot store to a two-level 13,000-square-foot space. 
St. John and Louis Vuitton are relocating from a 7,125-square-foot space farther west in the center that is being subdivided into four spaces designed especially for high-end jewelry tenants. Cartier will occupy 1,400 square feet; Van Cleef & Arpels, 500 square feet; and London Jewelers, a 77-year-old Long Island firm that has five stores in upscale communities, including the Hamptons, will occupy 4,275 square feet. Negotiations are pending with a fourth jeweler for the remaining 950 square feet. 
Those stores are expected to be completed before Christmas, according to Andras Frankel, the owner of the Manhattan-based IBEX Construction, which is building the new spaces. 
In Manhattan, IBEX recently completed a three-story, 21,000-square-foot clothing story, Faconnable, at Rockefeller Center and is constructing six stores in the AOL Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle. "What is being done in Manhasset is not any less than the high-ends on Madison Avenue," Mr. Frankel said.
Twelve miles east at Woodbury Village, the Hauppauge-based Staller Associates, the owner, is subdividing a 31,000-square-foot store into about 10 boutique-type shops. The space had been occupied by a supermarket since the center opened as an enclosed mall with 10 stores in 1977, according to Cary F. Staller, a principal with his father, Erwin P. Staller. The firm manages and owns, through various partnerships, 50 shopping centers on Long Island. 
Six years ago, with the exception of the supermarket, the mall was rebuilt and expanded into a 100,000-square-foot, L-shaped open strip of 30 shops and restaurants; about 75 percent are LongIsland-based retailers with high-quality goods, Cary Staller said. The rest are national specialty chains, like Arizona-based Cold Stone Creamery, which sells custom-mixed homemade ice cream. Eight of the stores are on Jericho Turnpike, another of the North Shore's main roads. The remaining are on South Woods Road fronting the rolling hills of the Town of Oyster Bay golf course. 
The new center was designed by the architect John Notaro of the Melville-based Notaro Grupp with a colonial theme modeled after a 20,000-square-foot center that Staller also owns in the historic Bellport village on the south shore.
About 20 percent of the $15 million project was spent on the facade and its details, Mr. Staller said. "We needed to create an upscale look, and so it wouldn't look so massive, we broke it up with dormers, pillars and brick trim," he said. 
Three months ago, Stop & Shop supermarket closed its doors at the center with one year left on its lease. Last month, Staller acquired the lease, "so we could control the direction of the shopping center and bring in a new mix, with no chance of getting an incompatible tenant," Mr. Staller said. 
Construction is to begin soon on the subdivision, creating eight to 10 stores of 1,500 to 7,500 square feet, he said. The center's annual rents are $36 to $40 per square foot, not including taxes or utilities. 
"It is our vision to continue to bring in leading Long Island merchants and some chains that are high-end," Mr. Staller said. Despite today's sluggish economy, the tenants have all been "very successful, so there has to be a need for this type of center, especially in selected areas," he said. 
The average annual household income within a five-mile radius of the center is $120,000, according to San Diego-based Claritas Inc., a market research firm. Woodbury and its surrounding communities, including Oyster Bay Cove, Laurel Hollow and Muttontown, are also on Worth's magazine's list.
DAN KULCHINSKY, an owner of the 48-year-old Mayfair Diamonds and Fine Jewelry, which handles couture jewelry, has four stores on Long Island. He said the demographics were right for a store at Woodbury. "This is our client base," Mr. Kulchinsky said. "Many of them have homes in the Hamptons as well as here and shop in our two Hampton stores." 
Efrem Aaron, the owner of Efrem, which specializes in fine leather goods, had been in the 250-store Roosevelt Field Mall in Garden City before moving into a 2,000-square-foot space at Woodbury Village. "We are a high-end specialty store and many of our customers do not go to the mall," Mr. Aaron said. 
To highlight their centers, both developers have also focused on luxurious landscaping.
At Woodbury Village colorful perennials bloom beside clusters of swaying native grasses in a parklike setting created by the East Norwich-based Ireland Gannon Associates, a landscape firm. 
At the Manhasset center, Oehme, van Swede, landscape designers based in Washington, have created gardens with flowers, Ms. Major said, that "change every season, like fashion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cary F. Staller at Woodbury Village, where a former supermarket is being divided into boutique-type shops. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); PSYCHOGRAPHICS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN DIOR SA (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Woodbury Village (Mall); Americana (Manhasset Shopping Center)

TICKER: CDI (PAR) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (57%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (57%)

PERSON: Carole Paquette

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Woodbury (NY); Manhasset (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



147 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: ON THE CONTRARY; 
Look Underground, and Unemployment Is Low

BYLINE:  By DANIEL AKST; Daniel Akst's column tilts at conventional business wisdom and appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ANOTHER Labor Day has passed, with the usual cookouts, marches and store sales but characteristically little notice of what may be the fastest-growing part of the work force: those who labor off the books.
 By its nature, of course, the underground economy is hard to measure. But it's not hard to see. Lately, it has been all around us, which is especially noteworthy now that the unemployment rate seems stuck at more than 6 percent. 
 Some people have suggested that the unemployment figure is deceptively low. There are, after all, more than two million people in prison, many more than in decades past, and disability claims are up, too. If all these potential workers were counted, the unemployment rate would indeed be higher.
But the number of such potential workers is far exceeded by the total of those working off the books -- whose labors would drive down the unemployment rate significantly if counted. That is especially true by historical standards, because the amount of underground economic activity has been expanding so much. The International Monetary Fund, in a global survey of underground economic activity last year, found that this sector has been growing in the United States for 30 years. The authors of the I.M.F. report have estimated underground economic activity at 8.6 percent of gross domestic product in the United States, up from 6.7 percent in 1990 and just 4 percent in 1970.
Because most people who work off the books are in labor-intensive fields -- investment bankers and heart surgeons tend to operate within the confines of the tax system -- it is a safe bet that 9 percent of G.D.P. translates to more than 9 percent of the work force.
No one is sure how many people work off the books. But most of us don't need the I.M.F. to tell us that the total is significant. If you have children, for instance, you may be paying somebody off the books to care for them, perhaps full time.
Edgar L. Feige, a retired economist at the University of Wisconsin who is an authority on the underground economy, has estimated from currency data that unreported income in the United States more than doubled during the 1990's, reaching $1.25 trillion in 2000.
One reason for this growth is the arrival of millions of immigrants, especially illegal ones. There were an estimated 8.7 million illegal immigrants in this country in 2000, according to the Census Bureau. And a large proportion are working off the books for employers who appreciate cheap, compliant labor free of employment regulations and payroll taxes. Another reason is the growing importance of the service economy: it is easier to keep this activity off the books. In the case of child care, for instance, parents do not want to wrestle with paperwork and payroll taxes, while the child care providers often prefer to avoid taxes. In effect, parents get cheaper labor while workers get higher wages.
Changes in society over the decades have also encouraged off-the-books work. Women's participation in the labor force exceeded 60 percent in 2001, up from 34 percent in 1950. That change has created much more demand for child care, gardening and other domestic help.
While a large underground economy suggests a lot of tax evasion, it also implies something positive: that inflation is even lower than the official rate. And, of course, it means that an awful lot of employment is not captured by government statistics.
So I'm doubtful that unemployment was a big problem this Labor Day, especially given the odds that someone out of work might be living with someone else who still has a job and thus can put food on the table. That the United States economy has produced enough jobs for millions of women and immigrants over the years -- without unemployment soaring far beyond 6 percent -- is close to miraculous.
The real problem is what has happened to the least skilled -- and least paid -- workers. From 1979 to 2001, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the real earnings of men without high school diplomas fell by a horrifying 28 percent. For women, whose pay was already lower, the decline was still 9 percent. Here, too, immigration and off-the-books labor have played roles, by sharply increasing the pool of low-skill labor.
A lot has changed since Labor Days past. But we still haven't managed to repeal the law of supply and demand.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US LABOR DAY (78%); WRITERS (72%); CENSUS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); CHILD CARE (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (62%); REFUGEES (61%) United States Economy; Gross Domestic Product; Labor; Illegal Aliens; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: Daniel Akst

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



148 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Jennifer Leete, Mark Patterson

 BODY:
Jennifer Sue Leete, a lawyer, and Mark Ainsley Patterson, a Senate aide, were married yesterday evening at the Cosmos Club in Washington. The Rev. 
Lura M. Kaval, an Episcopal priest, officiated.
 The bride, who will continue to use her name professionally, is 34. She is a senior attorney in the enforcement division of the Securities and Exchange Commission. She graduated from the College of William & Mary and received a law degree from the University of Maryland School of Law in Baltimore. Her father, Burt Leete, is the senior associate dean and a professor at the university's Robert H. Smith School of Business in College Park. Her mother, Karen Leete, is the assistant director of the business, society and economy undergraduate honors program there. 
 The bridegroom, 41, is the policy director for Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the minority leader. He graduated from the State University of New York at Albany and received a law degree from Catholic University in Washington. He was an aide to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, most recently as the minority staff director and chief counsel of the Senate Finance Committee. The bridegroom is a son of Barbara A. Patterson of Delmar, N.Y., and Raymond C. Patterson of Port Charlotte, Fla. His mother is a library assistant at the Delmar Public Library. His father retired as an English teacher at Linton High School in Schenectady, N.Y. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); LIBRARIANS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); LIBRARIES (65%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (58%) LEETE, JENNIFER SUE; PATTERSON, MARK AINSLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



149 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Kica Matos, Henry Fernandez III

 BODY:
Angelica Matos and Henry Joseph Fernandez III are to be married today. Judge Guido Calabresi of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit will officiate at his home in Woodbridge, Conn.
 Ms. Matos, who is 37 and is known as Kica, will keep her surname. She is the executive director of the Junta for Progressive Action, a nonprofit agency in New Haven for Latinos. She is also a tutor at the Yale Law School. A graduate of Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, the bride received a master's degree in political science from the New School in New York and a law degree from Cornell. She is a daughter of Aurelia Santos de Matos and Dr. Cruz Alfonso Matos of Vega Alta, P.R. Her father, who is retired, was the chief United Nations technical adviser for natural and marine resources in the South Pacific, based in Suva, Fiji. 
 Mr. Fernandez, 35, is the city economic development administrator in New Haven. He is also the vice chairman of the Center for Community Change, a nonprofit agency in Washington that organizes and represents poor people nationwide. He graduated cum laude from Harvard and received a law degree from Yale. His mother, Margaret Fernandez, lives in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and is a case manager for the Dutchess County Office for the Aging there. He is also a son of Henry Fernandez.
Ms. Matos and Mr. Fernandez met in summer 1996 in Washington at a conference of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. She was a member of its board, and he was a nominee for the board.
"I thought Henry was strange-looking," Ms. Matos said. "He was really thin, 40 pounds less than he weighs now. His hair was in a crew cut style, and his eyes, which are very green, looked yellow from the angle I was in when I first saw him. It wasn't a negative feeling -- just strange."
Mr. Fernandez recalled that at the conference, he made "very conservative" comments to Ms. Matos's outspoken feminist statements, "just to get under her skin."
"I always took the bait, and then he would say he was just kidding," said Ms. Matos, who said she found his impudence appealing.
They soon began dating. When Ms. Matos began her studies at Cornell Law School that fall, one or the other would make six-hour drives on weekends between New Haven, where he was living, and Ithaca, N.Y. Their relationship, which Mr. Fernandez said was casual at first, became more serious over three years and many miles.
"If you are driving all that distance, there is a point where you realize that this must be something significant," he said. When she moved to Philadelphia, they saw each other every weekend. Finally, in spring 2001, after "much negotiating," Ms. Matos said, Mr. Fernandez persuaded her to move to New Haven.
"We both realized we loved each other and wanted to settle down," she said. "But I kept telling him to give me reasons why it would make sense for me to move. We both share a passion for justice and are both driven by a sense of justice in our work. I thought it was important that it really be a part of our relationship as well. Finally, I said I would move if I had assurance that he would make the same sacrifice for me, if the situation came up. He immediately said yes, and after that it was easy."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Dino Monteiro) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); NATIONAL COALITION TO ABOLISH THE DEATH PENALTY (54%)

PERSON: GUIDO CALABRESI (92%) MATOS, ANGELICA; FERNANDEZ, HENRY JOSEPH III 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); FIJI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



150 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
For the Japanese Connoisseur, Cheap Trick Rules

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
NEIL YOUNG once sang, "It's better to burn out than to fade away." With all due deference to Mr. Young, the Japanese taste for aging foreign rock stars suggests that some things improve with age.
 While Americans are certainly no strangers to dinosaur rock, most Western fans follow their favorite aging act with a wink, understanding all too well that the music is often stale and played by musicians old enough to be grandparents. In Japan, the fans are far more earnest -- particularly with performers who long ago fell somewhere below top-tier aging acts like the Rolling Stones and Eric Clapton. 
 Small wonder then that Japan has become not just a departure point for foreign bands seeking to build a following -- something it has long been -- but also a final destination for older acts looking to pad a nest egg for retirement. 
Just last month, the world's second-largest music market welcomed Chuck Berry, now 76, who lit up the stage as the band Cheap Trick celebrated the 25th anniversary of "Live at Budokan," the album recorded at Tokyo's most famous concert hall. Olivia Newton-John visited in April, trying to generate the same spark the Bay City Rollers ignited here in 2001. King Crimson, Yes and Lou Reed all made whistle stops this year. Journey and the Eagles may arrive next year.
"It was like Beatlemania when we came over the first time," said Bun E. Carlos, the drummer for Cheap Trick, during the band's recent tour. "The Japanese are really loyal fans. If they take to you, you can come back many times."
The Japanese fixation with older musicians is not as whimsical as it may seem. From an early age, Japanese are taught to specialize and refine their skills to perfection -- not just in music, but also in the workplace, in sports and in other pastimes. This helps explain why small groups of fans, many of whom have little facility with English, can recite lyrics to every Kiss song ever written.
In a society where everyday life is so regimented, hobbies also provide an outlet for people to express their identity. A Japanese financier might wear a blue suit and starched shirt by day, but by night be found in a bar devoted entirely to the music of the Grateful Dead or the Beatles. Wearing a company lapel pin does not exclude one from donning a ripped concert T-shirt after hours and swapping album liner notes with fellow fans.
Still, some critics have suggested that has-been bands come to Japan less for the doting fans than for an easy payoff and audiences that can't recognize -- or are too forgiving of -- a bad performance. The country has also been seen as something of a crash pad where jet-lagged and unrehearsed bands come to polish their licks before taking their tours elsewhere. 
But touring here is actually only about as lucrative as it is in the United States, given the high taxes and pricier cost of living, Mr. Carlos and others said. And while the sour economy has forced Japanese promoters to cut back on perks they once paid to attract foreigners, like airfare and food, bands are lured to the country for far less mercenary reasons: high-quality studios, comfortable hotels, safe streets and warm hospitality. 
"Bands are treated like gold in Japan," said Akiko Rogers, an agent at the William Morris Agency who brings American bands to the country. "It spoils them. All the older bands have fond memories of Japan. Everyone remembers the hospitality, how they were treated. It's an easy sell to get them to go there."
As for the charge that foreign bands use Japan as a place to practice rather than perform, Japanese fans take a philosophical stance. "Professionals like me don't feel satisfied when we see shows and they feel like rehearsals," said Reiko Yukawa, a well-known Japanese songwriter and music critic. "But I know the bands love Japan and the fans, so that's why we accept their music even if it sounds like they are practicing."
And, it seems, even if they're long past their prime. How else could the Ventures, the archetypal 1960's American surf band now relegated to oldies radio, be considered gods in Japan? Nearly four decades after they hit the scene, there are still more than 100 Ventures copy bands roaming the country, where the actual group often tours.
"It was like when a duckling hatches and sees its mother for the first time," said Minoru Shiraishi, a 51-year-old interior designer, recalling the first time he saw the Ventures in concert back in 1966. "I knew I had to follow them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Performing in Tokyo last year, Chuck Berry climbed on top of a drum set to escape an overexcited crowd of admirers. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); SONG WRITING (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%) Music

PERSON: Chuck Berry; Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



151 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Paper Industry Awaits Its Bounce

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIMELMAN

 BODY:
PAPER and forest products companies generally outperform the broader market in the early stages of an economic recovery, and some analysts are holding out hope that companies in this sector will live up to their billing soon.
 Moreover, many Wall Street analysts expect that the stocks will rally further because of the weak dollar. 
 "As bullish as I am about an economic recovery, I am even more confident that the dollar will continue to decline," said Michael A. Kagan, a managing director at Salomon Brothers Asset Management. "That's why I like U.S. paper companies so much right now." 
When the dollar declines against other currencies, American paper and wood products companies generally benefit in foreign and domestic markets because their products are priced below those of their foreign rivals. And foreign buyers can use their stronger home currencies to buy more goods sold in dollars.
Conversely, the American paper and forest products industry -- a sector that includes big, broad-based companies like International Paper and Weyerhaeuser and smaller specialty companies like Smurfit-Stone Container -- has underperformed the market when the dollar has strengthened against the home currencies of rival companies, said Lise Shonfield, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Chase. This negative correlation between the dollar and stock prices, she added, was generally strong during the last eight years. 
Since February 2002, the dollar had lost 21 percent of its value relative to the euro and 14 percent to the Canadian dollar. While the dollar has recovered somewhat against the euro in recent months, many Wall Street economists question whether the recovery can continue. 
Some economists regard the weak dollar as a long-lasting phenomenon, in part because of a chronic trade deficit, which has bolstered the currencies of countries from which Americans import goods. The trade deficit is running at 5 percent of gross domestic product, the highest share since World War II, said Brian Keyser, the chief domestic economist for Citigroup Asset Management. "The deficit is so big that I expect to see further weakness in the dollar," he said. 
But in the paper and wood products industries, the theory behind the dollar-based optimism has not yet proved itself. Despite the dollar decline that began early last year, the level of American imports has not fallen, and exports have not grown. 
To the contrary, imports of many paper and wood products are continuing to climb, and exports are fairly flat for most kinds of paper. 
Analysts offer a number of reasons for the lag between the dollar's swoon and the rising fortunes they expect for American makers of paper and wood products. For one, they say, a weaker-than-expected pickup in global demand for paper and wood products is forcing European manufacturers to continue shipping to the United States, even though the euro's strength against the dollar has made those sales less profitable. 
Ms. Shonfield at J. P. Morgan said that many European manufacturers, like the Finnish companies UPM-Kymmene and Stora Enso, did not regard the dollar's weakness over the last year and a half as a lasting condition. In recent years, when the dollar was stronger, these companies built a presence in the United States. Early this year, they viewed the dollar's weakness as temporary and expected the dollar to strengthen once the United States defeated Saddam Hussein in Iraq. "But the euro has remained stubbornly strong," she said. 
Once economic activity picks up, Ms. Shonfield said, American producers may get a "double whammy" benefit from the recovery and a currency shift. 
MR. KAGAN likes Smurfit-Stone Container because he expects its sales of container board, the basic material in paper-based shipping containers, to pick up as consumer spending rises. 
Container board is expected to benefit greatly from a weak dollar. Smurfit-Stone derives about three-quarters of its sales from container board and corrugated containers. Mark Wilde, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote recently that "container-board producers could be the biggest winners on the export side."
Smurfit-Stone is trading at $15.41, about 110 times its earnings per share over the last four quarters.
Mr. Kagan also likes International Paper, which he sees as benefiting from a recovery in a variety of paper products. The company makes a wide variety of coated and uncoated paper, as well as packaging materials. It is trading at $39.65 a share, about 40 times its earnings over the last four quarters.
Richard Schneider, an analyst at UBS, likes Weyerhaeuser, a leading manufacturer of pulp. The dollar's decline will help shift manufacturing of this basic wood product from Europe to the United States in coming years, he said. "By far, the biggest impact to these stocks will be the pickup in orders and growth in economic activity," he said. "But the currency situation will also help these stocks."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Even Match"Paper companies have kept pace with the overall stock market in the last 12 months. Graph tracks the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Bloomberg U.S. Forest Products and Paper index since 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (93%); PAPER MFG (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (88%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BONDS (77%); EURO (74%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Paper and Pulp; Stocks and Bonds; Industry Profiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS HOLDINGS INC (57%); ROCKTENN CO (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); RKT (NYSE) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS322219 OTHER PAPERBOARD CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: John Kimelman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



152 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: Americans in Poverty 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Census Shows Ranks of Poor Rose in 2002 by 1.3 Million" (news article, Sept. 3): News that the number of people in poverty rose last year is sad enough, but even sadder still when we consider that this figure only includes people who fall below the official "poverty line" of $17,960 for a family of four. 
 Most people realize that this figure is shockingly low, and researchers estimate that it takes about double that amount for a family to meet the cost of food, health care, housing and child care alone.
Using this benchmark, almost 30 percent of families fall short. That's the sad reality, and a clear indication that our economy isn't working for everyone.

TAMARA DRAUT
New York, Sept. 3, 2003

The writer is director, economic opportunity program, at Demos, a public policy group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POOR POPULATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); CENSUS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%) United States Economy; Income

ORGANIZATION: Demos (Orgn)

PERSON: Tamara Draut

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



153 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: LOVE & MONEY; 
When a Windfall Frays Family Ties

BYLINE:  By ELLYN SPRAGINS; Ellyn Spragins is a freelance writer in Pennington, N.J. Her column about money's influence on relationships appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: loveandmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IF you're anything like me, it's at times like these, with the economy still on crutches and bonuses disappearing, that you fantasize about the jackpot that will lift the yoke of worries from your neck. 
 Experts say giant chunks of money don't really make you happy. I've always wanted to test that theory, specifically on Fifth Avenue. But being jackpotless, I've consoled myself lately by studying how windfalls don't simply fall -- they sometimes detonate. 
 Last month, Mike Tyson, the former heavyweight boxing champion, filed for bankruptcy despite making about $400 million over the past 20 years. In the line of creditors and claimants are former loved ones -- Monica Turner, one of his former wives, and Kimberley Scarborough, a former girlfriend and the mother of their daughter.
In early July, Kenneth Parker, 77, who lives on Long Island, sued his wife of 17 years, Connie, 74, for a $25 million New York Lotto jackpot they won on Valentine's Day. Mrs. Parker contends that she is entitled to the entire amount because she bought the winning ticket with her own money, according to her lawyer, Mark Brancato, who is based in Manhasset. Mr. Parker's lawyer, Dominic Barbara, who has offices in Manhattan and Garden City, says his client gave his wife $20, with which she bought the winning ticket and a Valentine's Day card for him. "The money came in and the love walked out," he said.
Mr. Barbara said the couple had no apparent marital problems beforehand, while Mr. Brancato said they did.
It may not be surprising if Mr. Tyson and the Parkers had a few fault lines running through their relationships. Who doesn't? But it is too glib to suggest that the money simply served as a megawatt searchlight, illuminating those flaws. There is a peculiar intensity to the vitriol, a grotesqueness in the acrimony, that breaks out among windfall winners' relationships.
What is the number that turns an inheritance or a windfall from a pleasant, let's-go-to-Hawaii experience into a vengeful slugfest, and why does it do so?
First, it has to be a life-altering amount, said Stephen Goldbart, co-founder of the Money, Meaning and Choices Institute, a wealth counseling organization in Kentfield, Calif. (I would define it as enough to let you live well without having to work anymore.)
Next, for a relationship to turn really ugly, the windfall recipient should ascribe supercharged, magical powers to the money. "When money represents a panacea for all ills in someone's life, they believe they can make their life perfect once they get it," Dr. Goldbart said.
For many of the suddenly wealthy, life's perfectibility becomes the mission. They are obligated to be happy. The delicate mechanism that keeps marriage partners in equilibrium breaks apart when a newly rich spouse no longer sees a need to accommodate imperfection or compromise.
Worse, purchased perfection can negate many of the partner's contributions. Who cares about your hand-knit sweaters or your fastidious housekeeping when they can easily be bought? Who needs your good job and your responsible saving habits? Just as a jackpot winner is willing to discard an old identity for a shiny, seamless, new self, her spouse is being forced to recognize that what he stands for isn't worth much in the new marital order.
The dispossessed half of the couple may or may not understand that he or she has been devalued. "If they can articulate it, they say things like, 'I feel like I've lost my voice,' 'I feel diminished,' or 'I feel like I'm competing with money,' " said Ellen M. Perry, a founder and managing partner at Wealthbridge Partners in Washington, which conducts education programs for wealthy families.
The effect of sudden wealth on sibling relationships is just as charged. Everything that is part of being a sibling -- shared values, common experiences and competition for parents' attention -- sets you up for a lifetime of covert comparison. When the company owned by your entrepreneurial brother goes public, it's as if a marker for your own life has been moved beyond reach. Once, you were more or less following the same road map. Now he has gained entry to a territory that you don't havea prayer of seeing. If we share so much, you wonder, why have things turned out so differently for him?
Eileen Gallo, a psychotherapist in Los Angeles and a columnist for the Journal of Financial Planning, spent two years studying people who had hit the jackpot through initial public offerings of stock, lotteries or unexpected inheritances. She found that half of them spontaneously wanted to talk about the money's impact on sibling relationships, and that nearly all said the effect had been negative. She concludes that many family members feel envy or an astonishing sense of entitlement about a relative's new wealth, expecting handouts or permanent financial support.
IN other families, the change in status is so deeply dividing that siblings repudiate generous gestures with stiff-necked pride. Dr. Goldbart recalls a couple in their early 40's who experienced sudden wealth after exercising stock options in the mid-1990's. They offered to pay for the cost of a private high school for their favorite niece so that she could get a better education than the one offered by her neighborhood's so-so public school. The girl's mother reacted angrily, accusing the couple of undermining her relationship with her own daughter.
See what troubles you've been avoiding by being unlucky? Me, too. The next time my windfall fantasy gets out of hand, I'll remind myself what Spike Milligan, the late comic performer, said: "Money can't buy friends, but it can get you a better class of enemy."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Robert Van Nutt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); LOTTERIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); COUPLE COUNSELING (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LAWYERS (73%); BOXING (70%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (60%) Families and Family Life; Personal Finances

PERSON: Ellyn Spragins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



154 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Debt Trouble Could Be Piling Up Overseas

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FOR the world's poorer countries, this year has been remarkably free from financial meltdowns.
 Argentina, having had one-fifth of its economy evaporate in 2001, is mending fences with international creditors and slowly putting itself back together. In Brazil, where investors seemed close to a panic last year, exports are surging and the currency remains stable. The Asian and Russian meltdowns of five years ago seem like distant memories. 
 But watch out. In a report that will be published this week, the International Monetary Fund warns that some Asian and Latin American governments have loaded up with much more debt than a first glance might suggest.
The total public debt of Asian governments has risen to nearly 70 percent of their gross domestic product, from less than 60 percent at the height of the Asian financial crisis in 1998. In Latin America, the debt ratio has climbed to 60 percent from about 40 percent.
By contrast, the debt ratio of industrialized countries is about 40 percent. What worries economists at the I.M.F. is that the world's poorer nations are on much shakier ground to begin with. Their tax collection systems are weaker and less reliable. Their exposure to outside shocks is larger.
Though the I.M.F.'s economists bent over backward to avoid inflammatory rhetoric, they nevertheless concluded that debt levels needed to come down drastically. For the typical emerging-market economy, a "sustainable" government debt would be about one-third its current level, the report said.
The obvious question, of course, is this: Why have debt levels increased in so many countries?
The new report shows that there has been an important new twist to the old borrowing patterns. Instead of turning first to foreign lenders, whether public institutions like the I.M.F. or the big international banks, many governments are raising money at home.
In Asia, for example, external borrowing has been virtually flat ever since the financial crises that swept from South Korea to Indonesia. But domestic government borrowing has ballooned.
In Latin America, external borrowing had been on a downward trend while domestic borrowing rose year after year.
The distinction between foreign and domestic borrowing is subtle. The "domestic" lenders can be foreign institutions, and they often are. The debt may even be denominated in dollars or euros.
The real difference is that domestic borrowing falls under the laws of the borrowing country rather than the creditor country.
But I.M.F. officials contend that the rise in domestic debt is important for several reasons. For starters, it is often more difficult for foreign investors and lenders to evaluate a government's domestic debt levels. As in the United States, governments can often push public debt off the books by setting up the loans through quasi-public corporations or private corporations supported by government loan guarantees.
Domestic debt can also be more difficult to collect. The security of a loan will depend in part on the laws of the country and the effectiveness of local courts at enforcing contract terms and adjudicating disputes.
The new report, which will be released on Thursday as part of the I.M.F.'s annual World Economic Outlook, points out some notable exceptions in the trend toward heavier indebtedness.
Chile, which is Latin America's most open economy as well as one of its most prosperous, has chopped its public debt from 54 percent of gross domestic product in 1990 to just 21 percent in 2002.
The post-Communist countries of central Europe, several of which got into trouble with overborrowing in the early 1990's, have reduced their debt levels as well.
THE report also takes note of what may be hidden time bombs. It says that one major cause of the rise in public debt has been a country's "contingent liabilities." These liabilities often come in the form of special loan conditions, like indexing loan repayments to changes in the borrowing country's exchange rate. If the country's currency plunges, as happened in Brazil last year, debt payments can soar.
Of course, poor countries are not the only ones that need to watch their debt. The United States government is by far the world's biggest government borrower, expected to run up nearly $1 trillion in new debt over this year and next.
If poorer countries need any lecturing about reining in their debts, American officials would be well advised to stay in the background. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (89%); TRENDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Latin America; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



155 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Pension Funds Weighing the Risks of Emerging Markets

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
FOUR New York City pension funds are on the verge of shifting $1.7 billion of their assets to one of the riskier sectors of the equity markets -- emerging-markets stocks.
 The question is: Are these pension funds, along with other investors, getting in too late, with these markets already up almost 32 percent this year? 
 George R. Hoguet, head of State Street Global Advisors' emerging-markets equity team that manages $1.8 billion, says emerging markets are "in a sweet spot,' and can continue to thrive. Still, he is worried that a "shock" could bring a halt to the rally. 
The board of the City Employees Retirement System, the largest of the four pension plans, is taking the dip into emerging markets for the first time, with the goal of shifting as much as $900 million to them. The boards of the Police and Fire Department Pension Funds and the Board of Education Retirement System are looking to commit a total of $790 million to emerging markets, three times the $262 million the three plans now have invested in them. The money managers who will invest the funds' assets are expected to be chosen by year-end.
While $1.7 billion is a small portion of the four funds' total assets of $51 billion, the proposed move by the city pension funds reflects a trend among institutional investors, who have been pouring money into emerging markets. This, in itself, is a big reason emerging markets are doing well.
One cause of the shift is a change in attitude about these markets, which have a volatile history of huge gains and big losses that kept many investors away in the past. Morgan Stanley Capital International's emerging-markets index surged 63.7 percent in 1999 followed by a decline of 31.8 percent, in dollar terms, in 2000.
"We have a situation where people are looking to increase returns," Mr. Hoguet said. With the bond market selling off and the United States stock market providing only modest double-digit returns over all, investors are considering anything that looks better.
The office of the New York City Comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., who is on the board of all of the city's pension funds, had essentially the same explanation. "Each board," a spokeswoman for the comptroller said, "did an asset allocation study and as a result some opted to diversify their equity portfolio by adding emerging-market equity investments because these fit in with their investment strategies."
But emerging-markets investors are often chasing the most recent returns, only to find that they have missed the boat.
Since 1998, the M.S.C.I. Emerging Markets Free Index is up 28.7 percent, compared with a decline of 16.9 percent for the S.& P. 500-stock index. The 31.7 percent increase this year is almost double the gain in the S.& P. 500. But since 1996, the M.S.C.I. emerging-markets index has been down in five years and up in just two, including 2003. And since 1993, these markets are down 28.7 percent, while the S.& P. 500 is up 119 percent.
Mr. Hoguet is upbeat because valuations in emerging markets are still relatively low. But he said the standoff with North Korea over the production of nuclear weapons could turn ugly, sending South Korea's market lower and dragging down other markets with it. He also said emerging markets could face a problem if the United States economic recovery "does not gather momentum."
Investors, he said, are not "properly pricing the risk" in South Korea, the largest emerging market, accounting for a fifth of the M.S.C.I. index. The South Korean stock market, as measured by M.S.C.I., is up 25.9 percent this year, more than he said it should be, and money from investors outside Korea has been pouring in since June, based on data collected by State Street.
The managers of the fifth New York City pension fund, the Teachers Retirement System, evidently did not want to take on this kind of risk. They decided not to put a piece of the fund's $23 billion in assets into emerging markets. In this case, the comptroller's spokeswoman said, "allocating assets to emerging-markets equities is not necessary to achieve the fund's risk and return objectives at this time."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rewards in Risks"Emerging markets have risen sharply this year. The gains have come despite concerns about the effect of an international nuclear standoff involving North Korea and how it might affect South Korea, the largest emerging market. Graph tracks the M.S.C.I. Emerging Markets Free index (based on dollars) since Sept. 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (92%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%) Stocks and Bonds; Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (74%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



156 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
From Canada, New Roads to Gold

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO 

 BODY:
SENSING a renewed appetite among Americans, a small army of foreigners is invading the United States with new kinds of gold investments.
 Ten small and midsized Canadian gold producers have been listed on the American Stock Exchange in the last year. The World Gold Council, a promotional group based in London, is awaiting approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission for a new exchange-traded fund backed by gold bullion. A similar fund was set up this summer on the Toronto Stock Exchange by a Canadian group with significant participation from American investors. 
 "When gold gets moving, there's nothing like it," said Ilja Graulich, general manager for investor relations at Durban Roodepoort Deep, a South African gold producer that also has interests in Australia and Papua New Guinea and is listed on the Nasdaq. "It's very easy to get hold of money at the moment," he said.
Gold is a part of many investors' portfolios, whether in the form of bullion, coins or shares of the companies that produce it. While the price of gold occasionally bursts higher on fear of runaway inflation, political instability or turbulence in financial markets, it has yet to come close to its peak, in January 1980, when it reached $850 an ounce. Gold investments were a big disappointment for much of the 1980's and 90's.
Investors in gold and the mines that produce it have done well in the last year. The metal was trading at $377 an ounce on Friday, about 18 percent higher than its 2002 average of $309. It briefly topped $380 this year, before the war in Iraq began.
The Amex's Gold BUGS index has soared 86 percent from its 52-week low, reached in October. (BUGS stands for basket of unhedged gold stocks.) The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver index, which includes some companies that hedge part of their output, has chalked up more modest gains, rising 17 percent so far this year. 
American gold funds are reporting substantial inflows. "We're having our best year in quite some time," said Joe Foster, who manages the Van Eck International Investors Gold fund. The fund's assets have grown by 60 percent so far this year, to $250 million, with inflows from investors accounting for about three-quarters of the increase.
John C. Hathaway, manager of the Tocqueville Gold fund, said that the fund's asset value had grown more than 50 percent in the last year, to about $293 million. The rising prices of its holdings accounted for less than one-fifth of the increase, Mr. Hathaway said, with inflows making up the rest.
Big gold producers like Newmont Mining of Denver, AngloGold of South Africa and Barrick Gold and Placer Dome of Canada, have traded on the New York Stock Exchange for years. The 10 Canadian companies that have been listed on the Amex in the past year include the Iamgold Corporation, Northgate Exploration, Wheaton River Minerals, the Minefinders Corporation, the Eldorado Gold Corporation, the Miramar Mining Corporation and Great Basin Gold. The most recent was Gammon Lake Resources of Nova Scotia, listed on Aug. 29.
"We're hearing from the companies that now is the time when they can use the increase in the gold price to gain access to the United States capital markets," said John McGonegal, vice president for equity sales at the Amex.
The exchange has assigned one of its sales representatives to Canada virtually full time to attract listings and is sponsoring two conferences on gold this year. Officials of International Investment Conferences of Miami, which is organizing the events, said 252 analysts and fund managers had registered for one of them, to be held this week in New York, roughly double the number last year. About 3,000 individual investors are also expected to attend, a fifth more than last year.
Jon A. Douglas, the chief financial officer at Northgate Exploration, says that overall trading volumes in the company's stock, which was already listed in Toronto, have more than doubled since it was listed on the Amex on July 11. Trading on the Amex has accounted for 31 percent of Northgate's daily volume. 
Barry Cooper, a metals analyst at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, wrote in a recent report that the stocks of smaller gold producers had become more attractive partly because of the weak financial performance of some large producers, despite higher gold prices. Mr. Cooper singled out Eldorado Gold and Cambior, which also trade on the Amex. On the other hand, he called Minefinders and Wheaton River "underperformers."
Mr. Hathaway, the fund manager, said, "People didn't know about a lot of those stocks a year ago; now they do know them."
STILL, Barry J. Landen, vice president for corporate affairs at Agnico-Eagle Mines, a Canadian gold company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, said that while investor interest was high, most of it was coming from familiar faces. "We want to see some new faces," Mr. Landen said.
In another move to expand choices for investors, the World Gold Council applied to the S.E.C. in May for approval to list its Equity Gold Trust, an exchange-traded fund, on the New York Stock Exchange. Richard Simonelli, a spokesman for the council, said, "Hopefully, sometime in the fall, we'll have a better understanding on the timing of the rollout."
A similar exchange-traded vehicle, Central Gold Trust, listed on the Toronto exchange through a public offering in July. The trust's president, Stefan Spicer, said that the 207 gold bars backing the trust were stored in the vaults of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and were not pledged as collateral on any loans. The trust has also said it will buy more gold whenever it issues new units so as not to dilute existing shareholders' interests.
Mr. Spicer said investors outside Canada had bought about 20 percent of the units. "The amount of interest in the United States has been very significant," he said. The trust's units are trading at about 23 Canadian dollars ($16.79), compared with the issue price of 20 Canadian dollars.
Of course, the performance of all these investments ultimately depends on the price of gold. 
The current popularity of gold has stoked the exuberance of gold fund managers, newsletter publishers and others. Mr. Hathaway concluded in a recent article that "neither the stock or bond market is capable of delivering anything close to the returns of the last 20 years."
"Once investors 'get real,' " he added, "they will migrate from paper to tangible assets."
Not everyone shares such enthusiasm. Observing that the gold market has its share of eccentrics, who tend to interpret a small rise in prices as the start of a major bull run, Mr. Graulich, the South African executive, said that "half the gold stocks are discounting a price of between $450 and $475 at the moment." If the price fails to reach those levels, investing in these stocks could lose much of its present allure.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gold producers are trying to capitalize on what they sense as growing investor interest. A recent conference in Las Vegas was attended by fund managers and analysts. (Photo by International Investment Conferences) Graph: "Digging Out"The price of gold has been rising in recent years, but is nowhere near its peak in 1980. And the stock prices of gold mining companies have risen along with the price of gold for the last three years, reversing a decline that began in the mid-1990's. Graph tracks the Amex Gold BUGS index since 1995. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SILVER MARKETS (76%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); IRAQ WAR (64%) Gold

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (58%); TMX GROUP LTD (58%); DRDGOLD LTD (56%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: X (TSX) (58%); TXQ (FRA) (58%); DRDD (JSE) (56%); DRD (NYSE) (56%); DRD (BRU) (56%); NEM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (56%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (50%)

PERSON: Bernard Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



157 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
30 Years Later, a Coup's Scars Have Been Masked

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile 

 BODY:
THE first thing a visitor is likely to notice on entering La Moneda presidential palace here after a prolonged absence is that the bullet holes that once pockmarked the exterior have been plastered over. But while the visible scars of the coup that overthrew Salvador Allende Gossens on Sept. 11, 1973, and installed Gen. Augusto Pinochet may have finally been erased, the same cannot be said of the deeper, interior trauma that was inflicted.
 As it prepares to mark the coup's 30th anniversary, Chile likes to think of itself as a normal, even boring country -- prosperous and calm, more concerned with mundane issues like the fishing law and the marriage code than plans to transform society. It has achieved that condition, though, only by ignoring -- or by failing to heal -- the most painful wounds left by its past, in what a resentful minority describes as a calculated act of "collective forgetting." 
 To the rest of the world, of course, Chile remains mostly a symbol rather than a real presence. In Europe and the United States, it is still possible to find people of a certain age who refuse to consume Chilean wine as a silent, quixotic protest against the atrocities that Pinochet's armed forces committed, while the wizards of Wall Street would rather praise Chile as their ideal of an open, capitalist economy in a developing country.
What few here or abroad wish to acknowledge, however, is that Chileans did not, at first, freely choose the economic model under which they now live. Instead, it was imposed on them as the result of the coup. Underlying the current prosperity, in other words, is a long trail of blood and suffering that makes the thought of reversing course too difficult to contemplate.
When General Pinochet was forced to leave power and democracy was restored in 1990, "the people who took over very deliberately decided for both political and psychological reasons that they wanted to bury the past," the writer Ariel Dorfman said. "They wanted a new life in which Chileans would no longer be victims, but the pain is still there and there is still a reluctance to talk about it."
Outwardly at least, Chileans are brimming with self-confidence these days, so much so that references to them as "the new Argentines" are beginning to appear in the regional press. As any Latin American knows, that is not a compliment but a way of suggesting that Chileans have become arrogant and patronizing, as their neighbors across the Andes were considered to be before their economy collapsed in 2001.
During the 1990's, Chile's resolutely free-market economy grew faster than any other in South America, at rates of up to 7 percent a year. This convinced many Chileans that the recipe that had been used here should be exported. 
"Welcome back to a country that works," the press secretary for a cabinet minister told a reporter just arriving from Venezuela.
Though cocky, that assertion is hard to deny. Visitors from other parts of Latin America are startled to find that taxes are actually collected, that the police generally do not seek or take bribes and that the political culture here places a premium on public rectitude. An isolated case of payoffs in the awarding of government contracts -- a story that would have been a minor scandal elsewhere -- was front-page news for weeks earlier this year.
Politically, too, Chile seems increasingly distinct from its neighbors.
In their most recent presidential elections, Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Paraguay and Venezuela all elected presidents who harshly criticized policies supported by Washington that restrict government expenditures, lower tariffs and privatize state companies. Instead, these successful candidates promised voters a greater focus on social justice and equality.
Here, in contrast, the nominally Socialist government led by Ricardo Lagos, once a member of the Allende cabinet, talks only about deepening free-market reforms. In a statement issued last month, the International Monetary Fund "congratulated the Chilean authorities" for remaining loyal to those principles during a global recession and predicted that Chile would be rewarded with increased growth next year.
And while Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, recently cautioned the rest of Latin America not to let Washington's plan for a Free Trade Area of the Americas become "an instrument to suffocate our possibilities for growth," Chile has already negotiated such agreements with both the United States and the European Union. 
"Chile has shown the value of free trade and having solid policies" and now "will have the opportunity to advance even further," President Bush said last week when he signed the accord.
But the modernization process has had its costs, as life here in the capital demonstrates. Though gleaming new hotels and office buildings have sprung up in neighborhoods that barely existed when Mr. Allende was overthrown, the magnificent view of the Andes that once dominated the skyline has been so diminished by automobile exhaustand smog that on many days the snow-capped mountains are not even visible.
The remnants of the left, demoralized and nostalgic for the Allende days, are disgusted by what they see and constantly complain that the populace is hypnotized by television programs that are among the most mindless anywhere. They forget that the agitprop of the Allende era was no better.
But even ordinary Chileans acknowledge a certain loss of solidarity and community.
"It took a trip to Brazil to remind me that our pace of life here is just not natural," lamented Ciro Colombara Lopez, a lawyer. "People work such long hours and are so busy making money that they barely have time to enjoy life and talk to their neighbors anymore."
But the principal problem is the persistence of a huge gap between the rich, who delight in flaunting their imported cars and vacation trips to Cancun, and the poor in whose name Mr. Allende claimed to speak. Though spending on health, education and transportation has zoomed since democracy was restored, the historic dream of an egalitarian society seems as distant as ever.
"We're a country that has reduced poverty from 40 percent to 20 percent in 10 years, and how many countries can say that?" Mr. Lagos asked during an interview here. "But the people always want more, and we have to do much more. It is a tremendous challenge."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Chile, followers of President Salvador Allende Gossens commemorated the 1973 coup that overthrew him and installed Gen. Augusto Pinochet. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%) Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Politics and Government

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) ANDES (79%) CHILE (96%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Chile

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



158 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: The Return of Lost Jobs? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "As Factories Move Abroad, So Does U.S. Power" (Economic View, Aug. 17) and recent letters in response to it (Aug. 31) did not focus on what is probably the major impact of the steady shift abroad of manufacturing, administrative, middle management and technical jobs. 
 A hundred years ago, Henry Ford paid his workers $5 a day, then extremely high wages, explaining that if his workers could not afford to buy his cars, he would not have enough customers. Today, our corporate managers, in their drive to lower costs, increase profits, increase share price and fatten their substantial compensations, have lost sight of the potential of losing their customers as the jobless and their families cut back on their spending.
It is no surprise that the present so-called recovery is sputtering, that lost jobs are not reappearing and that the public sector is not increasing its spending. It will be a long time before American inventiveness will develop new technologies and industries as engines of new job creation and prosperity.

GEORGE WOLF
Manhattan, Sept. 1

The writer is owner of Princess Knitwear Inc. in the Bronx.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); WRITERS (73%) Labor

PERSON: George Wolf

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



159 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: A Major Figure In a Quiet Resting Place 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "A Cemetery for the Living" (Aug. 31), about the New York City Marble Cemetery: Most New Yorkers are unaware that a historically important yet virtually unknown person is buried in the "sister" cemetery, New York Marble Cemetery. 
 That is Benjamin Wright (1770-1842), who was the chief engineer of the Erie Canal and has been designated by the American Society of Civil Engineers as "the father of American civil engineering." It was the Erie Canal that made New York the Empire State and New York City the nation's economic engine. 
 Civil engineers built the city: its bridges and tunnels, subways and highways, skyscrapers and water supply systems. Without civil engineers, the city would not be the metropolis it is today.
 It is fitting that final resting place of the father of American civil engineering is New York City.

ROBERT A. OLMSTED
Jackson Heights, Queens

The writer is chairman of the history and heritage committee of the (New York) Metropolitan Section of the American Society of Civil Engineers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL ENGINEERING (93%); ENGINEERING (92%); CEMETERIES (90%); WRITERS (73%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (53%) Cemeteries; Engineering and Engineers; New York City Marble Cemetery; new york marble cemetery

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS (83%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: Robert a Olmsted; Benjamin (1770-1842) Wright

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



160 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Grounded, and Fighting for Her Benefits

BYLINE:  By Terry Pristin

 BODY:
It is often said that industry consolidation leads to greater efficiencies, but that does not necessarily mean that the employees' lives will run more smoothly.
 Patricia A. Kusnick, who joined T.W.A. in 1966, when flight attendants wore girdles and white gloves and were still referred to as stewardesses, knows this first hand. The acquisition of her company by American Airlines cost her seniority rights and saddled her with many unpaid hours of commuting. Eventually she, like the other 4,000 T.W.A. flight attendants, was laid off with no severance pay. And in what she sees as a final indignity, New York State recently denied her request for unemployment benefits even though she has lived in Manhattan most of her life. 
 Once the last word in glamorous air travel, T.W.A. had struggled for many years before it was bought by American in April 2001. But although Donald J. Carty, American's chief executive at the time, assured T.W.A. personnel that they would be welcomed into "the American Airlines family," the two companies had very different cultures, she said. T.W.A. flight attendants, for example, tended to be older and more conservative in appearance than their counterparts at American, said Ms. Kusnick, who did not want her age published.
The first setback came when the union now representing them, the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, put the newcomers from T.W.A. at the bottom of the seniority roster, depriving them of job protection as well as the right to choose their base. Some American Airlines flight attendants, called "native Americans" by the T.W.A. workers, took to wearing buttons reading, "Hired, Not Acquired".
Then, after Sept. 11 curtailed air travel, American Airlines eliminated the former T.W.A. hub at John F. Kennedy International Airport and reassigned the flight attendants, including at least 150 from New York, according to airline officials, to T.W.A.'s former hub in St. Louis. An American Airlines spokeswoman, Julia Bishop-Cross, said that only T.W.A. personnel were transferred because the two airlines were still separate entities. "Integration takes years to complete," she said. "There's a very long process by which crews are retrained and airplanes are reconfigured."
Unable to relocate, Ms. Kusnick, who is married to a private investigator, said she would hop an early-morning bus to LaGuardia airport and queue up for as long as three hours in the hope of being able to travel standby to St. Louis, often on a jump seat. By the time her actual workday began, Ms. Kusnick said, she was already wiped out. "You were totally exhausted," she said. "It was like the last leg of an international flight."
In July, Ms. Kusnick was among the last 1,800 TWA flight attendants to be furloughed (2,000 of American's 20,000 flight attendants have been laid off). But when she sought unemployment benefits, she was told that she was entitled to collect from Missouri, not New York. Missouri, however, pays a maximum benefit of $250 a week, far less than New York's top weekly benefit of $405. She has appealed New York's decision. Her case is scheduled to be heard tomorrow by an administrative law judge at the New York State Department of Labor offices in SoHo.
Robert M. Lillpopp, a labor department spokesman, said he could not comment specifically on the flight attendants' case. But he said that unemployment benefits were linked to a person's base of operations, rather than his or her residence. Ms. Bishop-Cross said it made no difference to American Airlines which state awarded the benefits. But she said that airline officials would testify, if asked, that the T.W.A. flight attendants were based in Missouri.
At her hearing, Ms. Kusnick will be represented by Joel Leichter, an advocate for the Workers Defense League, a nonprofit organization that is financed in part by labor unions. Mr. Leichter said he would argue, among other things, that Ms. Kusnick was not actually based in Missouri because she received her work orders over the Internet from the airline's headquarters in Dallas and was unlikely to spend more than an hour of her workday in St. Louis. "A base of operations," he said, "has to involve something more than where they start and finish a business trip."
Determined to keep fighting, Ms. Kusnick has accumulated three wire baskets of documents about unemployment law. "I'm not going to accept that they aren't going to give me what I am due," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Lydia Padilla, Barbara Steffen and Patricia A. Kusnick have been laid off by American Airlines. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); LITIGATION (74%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: American Airlines

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Patricia A Kusnick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



161 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: For Many Chinese, America's Allure Is Fading 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: CHANGLE, China 

 BODY:
His older brother was the pioneer, more than a decade ago. His son followed three years ago. As recently as last year, his daughter planned to join this exodus of thousands from Fujian Province who have gambled that the life of a smuggled immigrant in America would eclipse that of an impoverished native in China.
 But she lost interest after her brother's experience. 
 "Life is much more difficult than he expected, so I regret sending him to America," said the father, Mr. Wang, who -- like some others interviewed for this article -- spoke on the condition that only his surname be used. "He is miserable. He says to me, 'Why am I working so hard in America? I can get rich at home.' It's very different from the way it used to be."
Ten years ago this summer, human smuggling exploded into international consciousness when the Golden Venture, a decrepit freighter stuffed with 286 Chinese, most from the Changle area in southern China, ran aground off Queens, New York. Ten people died in the cold and pounding surf, and soon, the name Golden Venture became shorthand for a cruel world of exploitation of desperate people.
Today, the smuggling trade continues, though perhaps at a slower clip, people here say, costing $60,000 per head. But for the first time, many Fujianese feel less urgency about venturing abroad.
They have more options at home, with jobs available in small businesses, steel factories or construction sites. It is far more convenient and less troublesome, some people say, to make small money in the comfort of familiar surroundings, instead of relatively big money in the clutches of a lonely and inhospitable land.
Some smuggled Chinese are even leaving America as soon as they pay their debts, and without gaining permanent residency, because they want a less stressful life at home.
"America is no paradise," said one man surnamed Zheng, who returned to the village of Shengmei a few years ago. He described a seven-year odyssey that started in New York but took him to many other places. "It was the same routine every day for six or seven years," he droned. "Get up. Work for 16 hours. Go to bed. Get up again. I was a fool. A machine."
America is still in people's thoughts here. Of dozens of people interviewed in half a dozen villages around Changle, nearly everyone claimed to have at least one relative overseas, most in New York.
In small fishing villages like Houyu, where jobs are scarce, the urge to leave remains strong.
But in many places, that desire is now muted by considerations such as economics, family and safety. Some people attribute their reluctance to tighter security in China and America after the Sept. 11 attacks.
"The Golden Venture has defined the discourse for years, and people still have the same ideas about Chinese and smuggling," said Peter Kwong, director of the Asian-American studies program at Hunter College. But things have changed, he said, adding, "The economic incentive is no longer absolute."
The woman accused of being the chief smuggler, or "snakehead," behind the Golden Venture, Cheng Chui Ping, is on trial in New York. The lawyer who represented many of the immigrants, Robert E. Porges, is in jail, after admitting that he helped many of them concoct false stories of persecution to bolster their asylum cases. The ship itself is being used as an artificial reef about a mile off the coast of Boca Raton, Fla.
Changle, a county of about 650,000 people, has changed, too. Several years ago, the county seat, also named Changle, was a dusty, lethargic town with bleak prospects, said Mr. Kwong, who collaborated on a documentary film about Fujianese emigrants in the mid-1990's. Now, it is a bustling city crowned by new high-rise apartments, stylish new stores and a new boulevard, North Shiyang Street.
Changle is full of people, like Zhou Xueqing, whose attitudes toward emigration have changed. More than a decade ago, her husband went to New York to work as a cook, and he sends home a few hundred dollars a month. But he is depressed, and his health is deteriorating.
His hard life deterred their son from going to America. He went to Shanghai instead. He now runs a mobile phone business and earns $12,000 a year, a good income there.
"The average person doesn't want to be smuggled into America anymore," said Ms. Zhou, who works at a new bedding store. "The economy is so terrible there." 
That view can also be heard on the busy streets of Jinfeng, another longtime starting point for illegal emigration. At her family's fashionable Wei Wei wedding store, Chen Meicun described a conundrum of yearning and conflict, risk and reward.
Ms. Chen, 21, said she once thought of joining her brother, who left 10 years ago for Peru. But she is loath to give up her job and the comforts of an upwardly mobile life.
"It's dangerous to go -- look at what happened in England," she said, referring the deaths three years ago of 58 Chinese who were being smuggled in the back of a truck. "Every country has its good and its bad, so why should I leave?"
In village after village, people outlined the same choices. If they got a good job here, they would stay. If not, they would try to borrow enough money to leave. Not one person talked about politics or human rights here, or China's one-child policy. The issue was money.
In a small store in Tingjiang, across the Min River in Lianjiang County, questions about smuggling people into America prompted a lively discussion.
The owner, a 28-year-old woman surnamed Lin, said she wanted her only child, a 4-year-old boy, to study hard and get a job close to home. She could not bear the thought of him going to America. "Everyday life here is not too bad," she said. "Our country is developing very quickly."
One customer, playing cards with some underemployed friends under a creaky ceiling fan, disagreed. "Not everyone can afford to go, but everyone wants to go," he said.
The nearby town of Shengmei is the hometown of Ms. Cheng, the alleged Golden Venture mastermind, and she is revered there as a benevolent patron.
But it is also the home of Mr. Zheng -- the man who called himself a fool for having gone to America. Mr. Zheng, 50, who holds a degree in marine biology from Xiamen University, said he had a miserable existence overseas. Though he was able to send home about $2,000 a year, he said he never laughed or smiled when he was in America.
His life now is not carefree. He has found only sporadic work, mainly in construction. But at least he can have tea with his friends, go for leisurely strolls and watch his son mature, day by day.
"You don't have to climb too high up the mountain -- just climb to a place in the middle that's more suitable," he said. "If you make a lot of money but don't have the time to enjoy it, what's the point? Money isn't everything."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Changle, which used to be a sleepy town, apartment buildings now line bustling North Shiyang Street. (Photo by David W. Chen/The New York Times) Map of China highlighting Changle: Job opportunities are growing in Changle, a once-poor county seat.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); SMUGGLING (91%); REFUGEES (77%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TERRORISM (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%) Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Illegal Aliens; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Golden Venture (Freighter); Smuggling; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) SOUTH CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FUJIAN, CHINA (78%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%) China; New York City; Fujian Province (China)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



162 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: THE VIEW/From Norwich; 
Class Act: Calling On Alumni to Back a Cause

BYLINE:  By GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO

 BODY:
WHEN Arthur Desrosier was invited to his 50th high school reunion five years ago, he was reluctant to attend. He left home after graduating from Norwich Free Academy and seldom looked back in college or during a career in which he spent 25 years as president at three successive colleges. 
 That is until the superintendent and principal of the academy, Mary Lou Bargnesi, whose family once lived on the same Norwich street as the Desrosiers, contacted him. Not only did she persuade Dr. Desrosier to attend the reunion, but she also enlisted him to be the honors speaker and to serve as a volunteer development consultant for his alma mater, a private school most of the city's working-class students attended. 
 "After I left Norwich, it sort of dawned on me how lucky I was to have an N.F.A. education," Dr. Desrosier said in a telephone interview from Billings, Mont., where he lives. "People from my time didn't expect to go to college if they were from a laboring family. 
"It pleased me to go back and see the same high quality and the demands on the students there today." 
Dr. Desrosier is assisting with the school's largest capital campaign, which is seeking to raise $10 million for an art and music building, $7 million to renovate the landmark Slater Memorial Museum -- a Romanesque-style art museum on the campus that opened in 1886 -- and $20 million to add to the school's endowment.
Construction on a new parking and bus lanes has already begun. Digging for the foundation for the new art and music building is expected to begin in March. 
Large-scale educational fund-raising was an integral part of his work as a college president, and Dr. Desrosier said he was eager to share his expertise. But while fund-raising and constant courting of alumni and philanthropists are part of daily life at independent schools, Norwich Free Academy is a different case.
The academy, the designated high school for the city of Norwich, along with seven small communities surrounding the city, is one of three privately governed, independent secondary schools in Connecticut that primarily serves public school students. (The other two are Woodstock Academy in northeastern Connecticut and the Gilbert School, which serves students in Winchester and Hartland.)
Towns that send students to Norwich Free Academy pay the tuitions, but the school receives no public funds and must rely on private fund-raising and philanthropy to pay for capital projects. The school serves a 2,300-member student body, and its leaders say they have come to realize that fund-raising and development is going to be a long-term, large-scale commitment.
"The tuition pays for the students' education, but not the buildings," Dr. Bargnesi said.
The founders of the academy had lofty goals. In 1853, Dr. John P. Gulliver, a Norwich educator and pastor, outlined to community leaders his plan to establish a free academy to provide a secondary education to boys and girls of every socioeconomic class. 
"N.F.A. was founded on educational altruism," said Dr. David E. Oakley, a Norwich ophthalmologist and a member of the school's board of trustees. "It was founded to educate the sons and daughters of mill workers."
In the days leading up to the Civil War, Norwich was an economic powerhouse fueled by the textile industry; it was one of the wealthiest cities in New England.
The academy was established after 36 people contributed a total of $86,000. The school opened in 1856 on a 13-acre campus.
In the late 1980's, the school's trustees and administrators decided the school should dedicate more effort to development if it wanted to keep its gracious 19th-century buildings in shape, while also adding new buildings and equipment, Dr. Oakley said. 
"It grew out of the realization that to remain independent, we would need a source of income," he said.
What began as a modest effort to identify and locate alumni in an effort to raise money has grown to include a foundation office with five full-time employees, as well as the team of volunteer educational consultants.
The school now frequently sponsors alumni events in areas such as New York City, Washington and Florida, where concentrations of alumni live.
The development director of alumni fund-raising, Deborah J. Lee, said the school was also reaching out by publishing several publications, sponsoring events ranging from reunions and homecomings to black-tie cocktail receptions and family days, and providing distinguished alumni awards. 
"We have 28,000 reachable alumni," Ms. Lee said. "We are always making sure the alumni are communicated with."
Ms. Lee said the percentage of alumni who donated to the school runs slightly below national averages. While independent schools consider a 20 percent to 25 percent alumni giving rate as excellent, the national average is about 15 percent and the academy's rate is currently 13 percent, she said.
During the last school year, alumni contributed $251,000 to an annual appeal to pay for "extras," including guest speakers and computers. In a previous campaign, they contributed most of the $4 million needed to build a science center.
As for the current effort, the school would not say how much it had raised so far, saying it was still in the "silent phase" of the campaign, which has been going on for about a year. The school expects to kick off the public phase next spring.
"People give to what they love and they give to successes," Dr. Bargnesi said.
Last year, the school received Blue Ribbon status from the Federal Department of Education, a designation that recognizes high achieving schools, especially those serving a diverse population that includes minority and low-income students.
"Look at the record it has achieved in so many fields," Dr. Desrosier said. "And the museum; not even many colleges have a museum like that."
Ms. Lee said the academy is one of only two high schools in the nation to have an art museum on its campus. (The other is at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass.)
"It's going to be a fun campaign," Dr. Desrosier said. "If you believe in what you ask people for, they'll support you."
Still, he and others at the academy say they know there are hurdles to surmount.
"They need to forget that word 'Free,"' Dr. Desrosier said of the word the academy's founders included in its name to refer to free access to education, not freedom from payment. "Sometimes, I regret that word's in there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Mary Lou Bargnesi with Deborah Lee, right, at Norwich Free Academy. Right, varsity cheerleaders practicing this summer. Far right, a view of the private school, which is seeking to raise funds for a new arts and music building and is largely attended by public school students. (Photographs by C.M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); CHARITIES (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%) Education and Schools; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: Norwich Free Academy (Norwich, Conn); Slater Memorial Museum (Norwich, Conn)

PERSON: Gail Braccidiferro

GEOGRAPHIC: BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Norwich (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



163 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
You Won't Hear a Refrain of 'All That Jazz'

BYLINE:  By ALLAN RICHTER

 BODY:
IN another blow to Long Island's jazz scene, the restaurant 69 Wall Street in Huntington has scaled back the weekend jazz shows it has been featuring on its second floor for the last year and a half. The restaurant is one of the few places on the Island where jazz can be heard in an intimate setting.
 The move comes as its owners try to combat the loss of business in a sour economy. Among the cost-saving measures, begun last month, are the suspension of Friday night performances and the cutting of band fees by $100, to $300, said Kelly Buffalino, who books groups for 69 Wall, which is owned by her husband, Chris. 
 Ms. Buffalino added that she will try to recruit more local musicians instead of pursuing the more expensive Manhattan-based bands. Saturday jazz performances will continue, as will 69 Wall's psychic and karaoke nights.
 Ms. Buffalino said that despite abolishing a $7 cover charge and advertising heavily in print and radio, 60 Wall was "really struggling to get the people in." She added: "We're waiting to see how the fall season transpires. If it gets busier, we might bring Fridays back, but at this point we're paying the bands out of our pockets totally."
 This is a familiar refrain to local jazz artists. Bob Hinz, a Huntington jazz pianist and teacher, recounted when one bookstore that used to feature jazz nights began paying musicians in gift certificates instead of cash.
 "You get kind of discouraged, and you realize that it's not that you're not making an effort," said Dr. Hinz, who has a Ph.D. in piano performance. "It's that there are no opportunities, not only because there aren't that many venues, but also because the venues that are around know jazz might not provide an audience." 
 Al Cardillo, a Mineola upright bass player, said he started a Sunday jazz brunch at the Papa-Razzi restaurant in Westbury in 1996. The restaurant added a Wednesday night jazz program in 1998.
 Then, the Sept. 11 attacks occurred. Shortly after that, Mr. Cardillo said, "Nobody wanted to go into Manhattan." He added, "My business tripled." But, the economy eventually took its toll, and the restaurant ended the program in 2001.
 Steve Adelson, a Long Beach jazz player, criticized local restaurants and clubs, saying they do not stick with the genre long enough.
 "It takes some money and advertising," he said. "If you have a bad week, you can't give it up. They try it because they think it's a cool thing to do, and after two or three weeks, they see economically it's not working out, and they go back to wet T-shirt night."
 But Ms. Buffalino of 69 Wall Street said her restaurant has stuck with its jazz program. She said demographics, not restaurateur commitment, was to blame.
 "Our crowd is middle-aged and usually have kids at home," she said. "They can't stay there till 2 in the morning," she said. "It's not like the city where people are out bar hopping." 
 At one time, the Island's jazz scene was livelier. At the heart of it was Sonny's Place in Seaford, which opened in 1972. The club is fondly recalled by many fans and musicians because it was devoted only to jazz and so could attract name acts like Count Basie or Sarah Vaughn. 
 But Mr. Meyerowitz became ill with cancer and closed his business in 1997; he died three years later. A few nightspots have featured jazz bands in the six years since Sonny's Place closed. But local musicians say none has managed to focus on jazz like Sonny's or replicate its familial atmosphere.
 Mr. Adelson, who plays a hybrid guitar and bass called a Chapman stick, and a group of Long Beach jazz lovers are hoping to rekindle an appreciation for the music with the first Long Beach Jazz Festival, which begins tomorrow. The festival will include films about jazz, including "Celebrating Bird: The Triumph of Charlie Parker," at the local library and performances by local and international players at area restaurants. The festival's Web site is www.longbeachjazzfest.com. 
 "It won't fill the gap in the sense that it's temporary," Mr. Adelson said, "but hopefully it will be an annual thing. We are putting 50 musicians to work."

GRAPHIC: Photos: 69 Wall Street has suspended its Friday night jazz performances because of a lack of business. Saturday night performances, above, continue at the Huntington spot, which also offers psychic and karaoke nights. (Photographs by John W. Wheeler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); BOOKSTORES (69%) Music

ORGANIZATION: 69 Wall Street Restaurant and Jazz Lounge (Huntington, NY)

PERSON: Allan Richter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Huntington (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



164 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Poll Shows Support For Public Education 

BYLINE:  By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
LONG Islanders support public education and want more options for early childhood learning and after-school programs in Nassau and Suffolk counties, according to an opinion poll released Thursday by the Rauch Foundation.
 The poll, "Caring for Long Island's Children," surveyed 1,500 Long Islanders on their attitudes about children, family, education and community. The results showed that the agenda of Long Island families is dominated by education, balancing work and family needs and economic security. 
 Comparison interviews were conducted with 600 New York City residents, 300 from the New Jersey suburbs and 400 from northern suburbs in New York. Rauch is a family foundation based in Garden City that is active in Long Island affairs. CharneyResearch, a New York polling firm, conducted the survey. 
 "Results of the survey demonstrated that despite concerns about fiscal issues, Long Islanders are cautiously optimistic and committed to preserving the high-quality public education for which Long Island has become known," Phillip Sparks, a spokesman for the Rauch Foundation, said. "If given the choice of budget cuts in their local school districts that would mean larger class size and teacher layoffs or a tax increase, they opted for higher taxes, by a 19 percent margin."
 Dr. James Hunderfund, president of the Suffolk County School Superintendents Association, said he was not surprised by the survey results.
 "This attitude was reflected in June, in the resounding passage of school budgets by local communities," he said. "Voters supported higher budgets and tax rates because they are responsive to the needs of their children and appreciate the continued improvement of achievement levels in their communities."
 Compared with the other areas polled, Long Islanders were more positive about their children growing up in this region, largely because of the schools. Among a cross section of every racial, income and social group surveyed, 68 percent of Long Islanders felt that growing up there gives children an advantage, compared with 49 percent in New York City, 64 percent in the northern suburbs and 61 percent in New Jersey.
 Long Island was also the region in the metropolitan area most satisfied with the performance of its public schools. Among Long Islanders polled, 77 percent said they were satisfied with the quality of public education in their area, slightly higher than the satisfaction rate in the northern suburbs (71 percent) and New Jersey (70 percent). In New York City, 55 percent said they were satisfied with the public schools.
 Dr. Charles Fowler, president of the Nassau County School Superintendents Association, said that the commitment to education correlated with a high level of participation among the residents of a community and that is high on Long Island. 
 "Long Island residents are typically more successful and more highly educated than in other parts of the country, and we recognize the importance of education in our lives and for our children," he said.
 While the general view of Long Island schools was positive, low-income and minority parents said they were concerned about the quality of education their children received. The poll found the highest levels of discontent among two groups: blacks of all income categories and residents earning less than $20,000.
 Long Island parents are also concerned about the choices they must make between work and family, the survey concluded. Half of Long Island mothers work full time, with 70 percent of those working women having children under 18 and 30 percent with children under 5.
 Long Islanders with children want more support, more help choosing programs and developing parenting strategies, and more policies that provide greater flexibility regarding work time, the survey shows. 
 The responses confirmed the need for more options for preschool-age children and after-school programs, said Ellen Galinsky, president of the Families and Work Institute, a nonprofit research and planning organization based in New York. 
 "The poll is very promising because it shows that Long Islanders understand the important connection between school readiness and later school success," she said.
 According to the 2000 Census, 365,000 households on Long Island have children, with 78,000 preschoolers and 520,000 children enrolled in elementary and secondary schools. 
 This survey, focusing on issues facing Long Island's children and educational systems, was the second in a series of three commissioned last year by the Rauch Foundation. 
 The first survey, completed last December, addressed the perceptions of Long Island's identity, quality of life, environment and transportation system. The final survey, to be conducted this fall, will explore issues related to economic and work-force development. 
 The newest survey had many positive findings but also showed serious concerns among Long Islanders, Mr. Sparks said.
 "While it found that local schools are the pride of Long Island and Long Islanders are hopeful about the future of their children growing up here," he said, "it also found that there is still an unmet demand for a coordinated system of quality early childhood learning programs and after-school care on Long Island." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PARENTING (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); FAMILY (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (72%); TAX INCREASES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); LAYOFFS (66%); TAX LAW (66%) Education and Schools; Public Opinion; Education (Pre-School)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%) Rauch Foundation

INDUSTRY:  SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED; 

PERSON: Linda Saslow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



165 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK; 
For $1,500 Retainer, the Doctor Will See You Now

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
AFTER building his medical practice to nearly 4,000 patients over 18 years, Dr. Nick Fitterman, an internist in Huntington, has decided to start scaling back. Last month, he made the formal transition, and on Sept. 1, he began seeing only those patients who paid a $1,500 annual retainer.
 Four hundred patients have signed up, forgoing the usual insurance reimbursements but becoming what Dr. Fitterman calls "participants in a long-term wellness plan." The patients can have unlimited appointments at no additional cost, same-day or next-day appointments and what his brochure calls "unhurried" visits. Dr. Fitterman also promises he will keep his beeper on and answer phone calls around the clock, seven days a week. He has even begun making house calls again. 
 Dr. Fitterman employs three other doctors at his practice, on New York Avenue, and they continue to see patients -- including many of Dr. Fitterman's former patients -- under the usual insurance reimbursement arrangements. 
 Dr. Fitterman, who said he changed his practice to provide better care for his patients, is one of two Long Island physicians adopting what is sometimes called "boutique" or "concierge" medicine. The other is Dr. Steven R. Goldfarb, an internist in Southampton, who is scheduled to convert his practice on Tuesday. Both men have signed agreements with a medical practice consulting company in Boca Raton, Fla., called MDVIP, which has provided guidance, data and technical support for their transitions. Darin Engelhardt, the general counsel and chief financial officer for MDVIP, said that some 140 doctors have converted their practices, about 30 of them affiliated with MDVIP. 
 He said the company believes the time is right to expand its network. "Primary-care physicians are under tremendous constraint in their ability to deliver comprehensive preventive care," he said. "The current health-care environment is one in which physicians are facing continuously declining reimbursements from insurance and Medicare, and that has unfortunately led to an increase in the number of patients physicians must see for economic reasons."
 MDVIP allows doctors to distance themselves from insurance bureaucracies and set up less pressured schedules while maintaining substantial incomes. In return for its advice, MDVIP collects a third of the doctors' retainer fees. 
 On average, only one out of every five patients will decide to make the transition to a new retainer arrangement, but many will stay with the practice itself, seeing a different doctor, Mr. Engelhardt said. He said a doctor with a caseload of 3,000 patients, an average number, could expect a retainer base of about 600 patients.
 A retainer of $1,500 per patient would bring in a total of $900,000 a year. Salaries for doctors in retainer practices range from $200,000 to $250,000, Mr. Engelhardt said. By comparison, family practitioners earned less than $136,000 in 2001, according to the American Association of Family Practitioners.
 But neither of the two Long Island doctors who are converting their practices named money as their motivation. Dr. Fitterman said: "The quality of medicine is suffering in this country because what we're doing here isn't right. We're all trying to see more people in less time."
 He cited his own professional dissatisfaction, and the dissatisfaction his patients expressed in a survey last year, as his motivation. His patients complained, he said, about waiting too long for appointments and about delays in the waiting room.
 Dr. Goldfarb said he began thinking about converting his practice five years ago because he felt squeezed out of the health-care decision-making process. "Unlike other professionals, we are in a business over which we have no control over fees," he said, referring to the insurance companies and government agencies that reimburse for medical services. "Decisions are made for us by powers greater than us." 
 But a retainer practice changes that. "This model allows me to give patients more time without losing money," he said.
 Retainer practices usually emphasize wellness and preventive medicine. Dr. Fitterman now spends most of his time administering annual physicals and discussing the results with patients. "The discussions are very intensive," he said. "I schedule them for an hour, but some last an hour and a half."
 Dr. Goldfarb, who plans to phase his new practice, said that analyzing the results of the physical and helping patients develop priorities and goals formed the core of his philosophy.
 In addition to taking detailed medical histories, he said, he also emphasizes nutrition, exercise and what he called "prophylactic medicine." 
 Some critics contend that an emphasis on annual physical exams is misguided. Since 1989, the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, part of the Department of Health and Human Services, has issued a series of reports questioning the validity of annual check-ups. The reports warned that exams sometimes produced false alarms, subjecting healthy patients to unnecessary tests and discomfort.
 Dr. Goldfarb said he thought the annual check-up was a good idea. "The value of the annual exam may be not be tangible in the sense of 'We're going to find it before you get it,"' he said, meaning discovering a problem before symptoms appear. "But the relationship you as a doctor create with your patient is worth it on a variety of levels."
 Patients follow a doctor's advice more closely, Dr. Goldfarb said, when they see him taking a personal interest in their health.
 The prospect of the spread of retainer practices has raised concerns at groups like the American Medical Association. On June 17, the A.M.A. established new ethical guidelines on the subject.
 "A retainer contract is not to be promoted as a promise for more or better diagnostic and therapeutic services," the organization said.
 Robert McMillan, an A.M.A. trustee who is a partner in the Melville law firm of Fischbein Badillo Wagner Harding, said, "The ethical requirement is that all patients be given the same level of care" regardless of the payment plan. 
 Dr. James Martin, the president of the American Academy of Family Physicians, said: "The academy has great concern that a more universal acceptance of this type of practice will result in various levels of health care. Our current dysfunctional system relies on cost sharing and cost shifting to provide even the poorly distributed care we offer now."
 Dr. Martin said retainer medicine does fix a major problem in the current system of health-care financing by paying doctors for the time they spend coordinating care and conferring with patients. Currently, doctors are paid only for the procedures they perform, Dr. Martin said.
 The underlying issue, said Dr. Jon Cohen, the chief medical officer for the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, is the country's ambivalence about health-care entitlement. "The American public believes it's a right," he said, "but our economic system treats it as a privilege."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Nick Fitterman, an internist in Huntington, has limited his practice to patients who pay a $1,500 annual retainer. He has even begun making house calls again, like this one to Rita Lo Russo in Northport. Her husband, Joseph, is seated behind her. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (90%); FAMILY PRACTICE (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MEDICARE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%); LAWYERS (50%) Medicine and Health; Doctors

PERSON: Warren Strugatch; Nick (Dr) Fitterman

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Huntington (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



166 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Treasures in the Attic 

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
IT is the end of summer, and New Jersey's museums are gearing up for their big fall shows. There is much to look forward to, but also evidence of the challenges facing museums, with a weak economy, state budget cuts to the arts, and a decline in private contributions. 
 Over the last year, museums in New Jersey have been forced to trim curatorial projects and touring shows. To get through these tough times, many have dipped into the storeroom and assembled shows from their collections. This way they do not pay for shipping and insurance, nor do they have to print catalogs or conduct new scholarship. 
 Collection shows have their virtues. They provide an opportunity to dust off neglected works in storage or explore offbeat themes and subjects. The collection offerings in the museums this fall should excite art fans with eclectic tastes, for languishing in storerooms around the state are treasures large and small, some of which have never seen the light of day. 
 On the schedule are shows of rarely seen artifacts, of recent museum gifts or things presented as gifts in the past and brought out again for another look, and of objects held in sufficient density to warrant attention. In some cases, the curators are trying to say something new.
 If one collection-based show stands out, it is "The Centaur's Smile: The Human Animal in Early Greek Art" at the Princeton University Art Museum. This scholarly exhibition looks at fantastic imagery of humanoid creatures in early Greek art, and is the first exhibition in the United States to focus on this theme. 
 Among touring shows from other museums, the pick of the season is the George Tice retrospective at the New Jersey State Museum. This exhibition spans Mr. Tice's photographic career from the 1960's to the present, giving ample evidence as to why he is widely regarded as among the best photographers of his generation. 
 Meanwhile, many museums are presenting exhibitions to appeal to diverse audiences, or that have a strong educational focus; some, like the Newark Museum, even have shows designed especially for children. This is all good.
 Here is a sampling of what is in store for art lovers this season.

Princeton Art Museum
 Meticulously researched by J. Michael Padgett, curator of ancient art at the museum, "The Centaur's Smile," opening on Oct. 11, features 100 objects in various media. About a quarter come from Princeton's collection, with the rest on loan from public and private collections in France, the United States and Spain.
 Among the booty is a geometric-style bronze of a warrior battling a centaur, from New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art, and, from the Bibliotheque National in Paris, an ancient bronze centaur statuette found on the Athenian acropolis in the 19th century. If this is not to taste, then try the engraved gems in rock crystal, jasper and cornelian, or jewelry and metalwork in gold, silver and electrum.

Jersey City Museum
 This museum is the most dynamic contemporary art site in New Jersey. Although its state financing has been cut, and sponsors are scarce, the organizers have still pulled together a mid-career retrospective of the Newark-born and -raised African-American artist Chakaia Booker. Ms. Booker's casual assemblages of twisted, coiling and sometimes painted old tires have much to say about the world in which she grew up. The show opens on Jan. 14.
 The museum has just installed two delicate yet powerful wall drawings by the young Mexican, now Brooklyn-based, artist known as Vargas-Suarez Universal. One piece consists of webby, linear abstractions in red and blue enamel paint, while the other, in permanent marker, references the architectural history of Jersey City. The latter is the museum's first semi-permanent installation in its new Montgomery Street home.

The Newark Museum
 This museum consistently presents exemplary historical shows with a strong educational focus. This fall it is dusting off its numismatic collection for "Once Upon a Dime: The World of Money," an interactive exhibition aimed at children, and opening on Oct. 4. On view are various forms of currency from Africa, China, America, India, and the islands in the South Pacific. 
 Also this fall, 36 quilts from the museum's nationally known collection will be unpacked for "Quilt Masterpieces: From Folk Art to Fine Art." The show, opening on Oct. 17, explores the evolution of quilt making from a domestic activity to one of America's great indigenous folk art forms. As a special addition to the exhibition, an extraordinary modern album quilt by 14 Holocaust survivors has been borrowed from the Jewish Family Service of MetroWest. It will hang in the museum's south wing.

Montclair Art Museum
 Things are more playful over here, where "Connecting Generations: Contemporary American Indian Dolls" explores doll making in modern Native American tribal societies. The exhibition features about 20 dolls from private collections nationwide, with works by Native American artists like s Joyce and Juanita Growing Thunder Fogarty, Rhonda Holy Bear and Jamie Okuma.Alongside this show, the museum will present works from its collection that explore images of children from the 19th century to the present. Among the pieces in the show, "Growing Up: Childhood in American and Native American Art," are some spooky photographs of Native American children by Carl Moon, Winslow Homer's charming wood engravings of children, and contemporary works by Romare Bearden, Faith Ringgold and Janet Taylor Pickett. 
 Both shows open next Sunday.

New Jersey State Museum
 If you missed the much-lauded Tice retrospective at New York's International Center for Photography last year, you are in luck, for it is coming to Trenton. Opening on Oct. 4, "George Tice: Urban Landscapes" presents a selection of Mr. Tice's disquieting black-and-white photographs of New Jersey's suburban and industrial landscapes from the late 1960's to the present. Viewed together, the works amount to one of the most significant and moving photographic studies of place in modern America.

Zimmerli Art Museum
 Like Princeton, the Zimmerli, at Rutgers in New Brunswick, has extensive collections of paintings, sculpture and works on paper. Particularly rich are its reserves of Russian and Soviet era art, which have been tapped for "Soviet Artists, Jewish Imagery: Selections from the Norton and Nancy Dodge Collection of Soviet Non-Conformist Art." The show, which just opened, features a little over 40 works by Jewish artists active in the Russian avant-garde art scene last century. 
 Opening today, the Zimmerli has redeemed around 60 pieces of its American sculpture collection, a few of which have never been shown. In spite of its sleeping pill title, "American Sculpture from the Zimmerli Collection," the show includes important works by Janet Scudder, Herbert Ferber, Leo Amino, Louise Nevelson, Claes Oldenburg, Chaim Gross and George Segal. With this lineup, it will be hard to go wrong.

On the Walls
Here are the telephone numbers and Web addresses for the museums mentioned in the article on the new season:
 Princeton University Art Museum, (609)258-3788, www.princetonartmuseum.org
 Jersey City Museum, (201)413-0303, www.jerseycitymuseum.org
 The Newark Museum, (973)596-6550, www.newarkmuseum.org
 Montclair Art Museum, (973)746-5555, www.montclairartmuseum.org
 New Jersey State Museum, (609)292-6464, www.newjerseystatemuseum.org
 Jane Vorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, (732)932-7237, www.zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu

GRAPHIC: Photos: The new season will bring exhibitions on Greek art at the Princeton University Art Museum, on quilts at the Newark Museum and of George Tice's photographs at the New Jersey State Museum in Trenton. Mr. Tice's "Plainfield" (1996), above; Joy Saville's "Interruptions" (1984), right; and a bronze statuette of a centaur, circa 530 B.C. (pg. 1); A detail from Grisha Bruskin's "Alephbet No.14," to be displayed at the Zimmerli. (pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); CLASSICS (86%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%) Art; Greek Civilization; Archaeology and Anthropology; Photography; Quilts

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (82%) Princeton University Art Museum; New Jersey State Museum ; Newark Museum

PERSON: George Tice; Benjamin Genocchio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (73%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



167 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
A Sense of Optimism In the State's Theaters

BYLINE:  By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
IF there is a bit more buzz in New Jersey's theatrical air as the fall season begins, it is because there is a lot to anticipate.
 In Princeton, the McCarter's second theater opens this week with Nilo Cruz's "Anna in the Tropics," the play that won this year's Pulitzer Prize for drama without having had a New York-area production. At the Paper Mill in Millburn, Michael Gennaro settles in for his first full season as president and chief executive, having taken over that job in April. 
 Meanwhile, several theaters are trying interesting collaborations, and the Crossroads Theater Company in New Brunswick, which went dark three years ago and flickered back to life with a limited season last year, is planning four shows. 
Beyond these individual storylines, the season may well be defined by how the theaters collectively regroup after months of preoccupation with a threatened cut in state support.
 When Governor McGreevey proposed eliminating state financing for the arts in February, theaters responded with a lobbying effort that included pre-curtain pleas to audiences, fliers inside programs and celebrity-studded rallies. Financing was partly restored with a hotel and motel tax, but the theaters were left newly appreciative of their vulnerability.
 Now, the theaters seem both encouraged by the show of public support and determined to make sure that support is as broad-based as it can be. 
 "The general feeling is optimistic," said Stephen Fredericks, president of the New Jersey Theater Alliance, a trade group, and executive director of Growing Stage, the lively children's theater in Netcong. But, Mr. Fredericks added, everyone is conscious that the budget situation has not been resolved, and they are considering new ways to find audiences.
 "The reality of when this fight 'will come again' is already here," he said, noting that the new tax is not yet linked to arts financing by constitutional amendment. "If you could even entertain the concept to eliminate, how can anyone not believe that in an even more difficult state economy, as is already being discussed, those funds would not be diverted to another sector of our society?"
 Ultimately, the plays remain the thing. All eyes will certainly be on the McCarter Theater Center this week when the new 360-seat Roger B. Berlind Theater opens with the Cruz play, a portrait of Spanish-Cubans in Florida in 1929, set in a cigar factory. Next year brings what promises to be an intimate "My Fair Lady," a play whose inspiration, "Pygmalion," is now at the Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey. 
 The McCarter main stage offers Charles L. Mee's "Wintertime," a co-production with Second Stage in New York. Performances begin on Oct. 14. 
 The leadership change at the Paper Mill came with much talk about whether the theater's tastes would change, but in the selection of shows, the coming season, scheduled before Mr. Gennaro's arrival, stays firmly in the mainstream. "Ain't Misbehavin," the Fats Waller revue, starts things off this week, followed by "The Sound of Music" on Oct. 29.
 The George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick has back-to-back world premieres: "Wilderness of Mirrors" by Charles Evered, about the founding of the C.I.A., opening on Sept. 12, and "Attacks on the Heart" by Arthur Laurents, opening on Oct. 17, about a love affair between a Turkish woman and an American man set against the backdrop of the Sept. 11 attacks.
 The latest reincarnation of the nearby Crossroads, which involves a partnership with the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, includes a revival in December of "The Late Great Ladies of Blues and Jazz," a one-woman musical, and then, in February, a storytelling show featuring Ossie Davis.
 As always, some of the most ambitious work will be at the state's smaller theaters. For example, Passage Theater Company in Trenton is offering "Afghan Women" by William Mastrosimone, about an Afghan-American woman who returns to her homeland to work at an orphanage. Performances begin on Oct. 9.
 Mr. Mastrosimone, a Trenton native, wrote the one-act "Bang Bang, You're Dead," which is about a school shooting and has been performed thousands of times by student actors across the country. 
 The Bickford Theater at the Morris Museum in Morristown offers "Barrymore" on Sept. 26 and "Educating Rita" on Dec. 12. Its most intriguing entry may be "Defying Gravity" by Jane Anderson, scheduled for February. The play, over years old, is about the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger, yet could have new resonance because of the more recent shuttle disaster.
 At 12 Miles West Theater Company in Montclair, a lot of comedy is in the offing, including the New Jersey premiere of Nicky Silver's "Fit to Be Tied," opening in January. On the coast, Two River Theater Company in Manasquan is beginning its season on Oct. 2 with a 90-minute adaptation of Bizet's "Tragedy of Carmen." Mamet, Strindberg and Mike Leigh are on the schedule for next year.
 On Oct. 9, New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch is offering the world premiere of "The Good Daughter" by D.W. Gregory, whose drama "Radium Girls" was well received several years ago in its premiere at Playwrights Theater of New Jersey in Madison.
 New Jersey Rep is finishing up a run of "Spain" by Jim Knable, which then transfers to Playwrights, part of an effort by the groups to bring new works to a broader audience.
 At Cape May Stage, the Halloween season will bring "Poe, Deep Into That Darkness Peering." Also in Cape May, the East Lynne Theater Company offers "Tales by Twain," a world premiere based on Twain's writings. Both plays begin performances on Oct. 1.
 Plenty of children's theater is scheduled. At the Forum Theater Company in Metuchen, practically any children's character you can name will make an appearance -- from Snow White to the Velveteen Rabbit -- but the high point may be a Singalong "Wizard of Oz" in March. 
 Growing Stage Theater has the likes of "Harriet the Spy," starting on Sept. 26, and "The Chronicles of Narnia," on Nov. 28. Also, keep an eye out next year for "A Boy Named Cinder."

Curtain Up
Here are telephone numbers and Web addresses for the theaters mentioned in the article on the new season:
 McCarter Theater Center, (609)258-2787, www.mccarter.org
 Paper Mill, (973)376-4343, www.papermill.org 
 Crossroads Theater Company, (732)545-8100
 The Shakespeare Theater of New Jersey, (973)408-5600, www.shakespeare-nj.org
 George Street Playhouse, (732)246-7717, www.georgestplayhouse.org
 Passage Theater Company, (609)392-0766, www.passagetheatre.org
 Bickford Theater, (973)971-3706, www.morrismuseum.org
 12 Miles West Theater Company, (973)746-7181, www.12mileswest.org
 Two River Theater Company, (732)345-1400, www.tworivertheatre.org
 New Jersey Repertory Company, (732)229-3166, www.njrep.org
 Playwrights Theater of New Jersey, (973)514-1787, www.ptnj.org
 Cape May Stage, (609)884 - 1341, www.capemaystage.com
 The East Lynne Theater Company, (609)884-5898, www.eastlynnecompany.org
 Forum Theater Company, (732)548-0582, www.forumtheatrecompany.com
 Growing Stage Theater, (973)347-4946, www.growingstage.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Emily Mann, background center, director of "Anna in the Tropics," with the playwright, Nilo Cruz, right bottom, and cast members, including Jimmy Smits, center top. The play opens this week at the McCarter Theater Center in Princeton. (Photo by T. Charles Erickson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); BUDGETS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); LOBBYING (67%); PAPER & PACKAGING (57%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (56%) Theater; Finances

PERSON: James E (Gov) Mcgreevey; Neil Genzlinger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



168 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty Lingers Over Air Pollution in Days After 9/11 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
The air in Lower Manhattan after Sept. 11 has swirled back into the news -- what people knew about it, when they knew it and what they said about it.
 A report by the federal Environmental Protection Agency's inspector general lambasted the agency's former administrator, Christie Whitman, for her reassuring statements about the air quality after 9/11. Those comments, investigators said, could not possibly have been based on scientific fact. Mrs. Whitman has strongly defended herself, saying she spoke only what was known at the time. 
 But the underlying issue, researchers, doctors and politicians say, remains just as unresolved today as it was back then in the chaotic, emotional days after the attacks: How do you communicate something about which no one has ever had any experience? Was there a standard of confidence about the environmental risks and unknowns that was scientifically or perhaps even morally appropriate under the circumstances? 
In an interview on Friday, Mrs. Whitman, who left the agency in June, said that on Sept. 18, 2001, when she announced that theair in Lower Manhattan was "safe to breathe," the statement was correct. Outside the smoldering pit of ground zero, she said, the pollutants that the agency was measuring had dropped to near-normal levels. But she said she also believed that New Yorkers -- anxious, terrified and in a real way lost at that moment -- simply would not have stood for a cold or vaguely worded scientific response.
"They're now saying we didn't have enough information," she said. "But when people are really upset, you can't win. You've got to say something, and what we communicated was what we knew. There may be long-term health implications we never could have conceived of, but we couldn't stop and stay, 'We can't tell you for 10 years.' That absolutely wouldn't work."
Many researchers say they believe that whatever the intentions, Mrs. Whitman's confident words did have implications for how New Yorkers perceived the environmental risks and how they viewed the government's overall response to the disaster. 
"There were uncertainties, and in those situations, you should say, one, you don't know, and two, you'll find out," said Dr. Stephen M. Levin, the medical director of the Irving J. Selikoff Center for Occupational and Environmental Medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. "And then you make statements based on real data."
Dr. Levin, whose center has examined about 6,000 people exposed to trade center debris, said he thought some companies used Mrs. Whitman's comments to justify ordering their employers back to work downtown even as the dust and smoke swirled, and some of those workers, he said, became his patients. He says some ground zero workers who developed lung problems also may have given themselves "permission" not to use respirators because of her words, even though the final responsibility was their own.
Other health experts say it is not as simple as science and numbers. There was an anxious emotional pitch in New York in those hours, they say -- a hunger for certainty and confidence that things would be all right. Whether it was politics, economics or simple human nature at work, the momentum, they say, was hard to resist.
"There was a tremendous pressure to act like people could move back into their homes, schools and Wall Street," said Professor David Rosner, the director of the Center for the History and Ethics of Public Health at Columbia University. "We wanted the city to be normal again." 
Other scientists who were involved from the earliest days in testing the air downtown say that Mrs. Whitman's statements were, in a way, right and wrong at the same time. The cumulative evidence through the months of independent testing by academic researchers and private companies ultimately supported what she had said. But at the time, they say, she could not have known that they would. 
"Generally for the public, her statement wasn't that far off in the end," said George D. Thurston, an associate professor of environmental medicine at the New York University School of Medicine. "But it was premature and had no basis at that point. People don't want to be reassured. They want the facts."
Some of the facts about the disaster's impact will never be known. Few health investigators hovered around the laborers who cleaned dust-choked buildings near the disaster site, for example, so scientists do not know and never will know what those workers breathed.
Other unknowns are still on the horizon. On Friday, New York City and federal health officials began a 20-year project to track the health of up to 200,000 people who were exposed to the disaster. One of the goals, registry organizers say, is to broaden the base of knowledge for use in future disasters.
But some politicians and scientists say that cynicism about the government and the environment, furthered by Mrs. Whitman's assurances, could make future disasters even harder to deal with.
"I know this, if there is another attack, I won't listen to a damn thing they say," said State Senator David A. Paterson, a Democrat from Manhattan, who said last week that he planned to hold legislative hearings to investigate how the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki handled the environmental crisis.
Some researchers say the E.P.A. was simply the wrong agency for the job, since its responsibility is to monitor and regulate atmospheric conditions long term, not in the pell-mell crush of a crisis.
"There may have been politics, but I think it had much more to do with bureaucratic structure," said Patrick L. Kinney, an associate professor at Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health. "The E.P.A. is not a fast-moving organization. It's hard for them to make statements and respond in a quick way to changing circumstances."
Mrs. Whitman said that the agency had learned from the crisis but that she had no regrets or second thoughts about anything she had said or done. 
"Nobody was trying to tell people that things were normal," she said. "Things were not normal. But to the extent they were normal in the ambient air quality outside ground zero, I don't think there was anything wrong with saying that." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (88%); AIR QUALITY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Air Pollution; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Kirk Johnson; Christie (Admr) Whitman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



169 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Kabul, Mired in Mines 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 A Sept. 3 editorial and an Aug. 31 news article about Afghanistan highlight the urgent need to rebuild the road connecting Kabul, the capital, with Kandahar. 
Among the obstacles to the reconstruction of this lifeline for commerce, resettlement and national unity are the many land mines laid on or along it. 
 All mines must be cleared before the road can be finished. In Afghanistan, as in other countries, mine clearance is a prerequisite for reconstruction and development. The Japanese and the United States governments, the European Commission and the World Bank are helping finance demining operations to make major routes in Afghanistan safe for construction crews and the Afghans whose livelihoods and futures depend on them. 
Donor governments, aid agencies and development organizations working elsewhere would do well to follow the lead of our partners in Afghanistan and make "mine action" an integral part of every effort to rebuild countries emerging from conflict.

MARTIN BARBER
Director
United Nations Mine Action Service
New York, Sept. 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDMINES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TERRORISM (59%) Mines, Explosive; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%) United Nations Mine Action Service

PERSON: Martin Barber

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (91%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (88%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Afghanistan; Kabul (Afghanistan); Kandahar (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



170 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Walls of Ivy, Tangled With Pickets; 
Students Begin School Year in the Middle of a Labor War at Yale

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Inside the large auditorium where long red velvet curtains hang from cathedral-style windows and oil paintings of prosperous and powerful men line the walls, hundreds of Yale University students packed in to hear the introduction to a course about the transformation of the modern city, using New Haven as the model.
 But as Prof. Douglas W. Rae began his lecture on Thursday, he was soon drowned out by sounds of the transforming city outside: blaring horns, pounding drums and the angry voices of striking Yale workers singing the old Twisted Sister song "We're Not Gonna Take It." 
 "Let's stop and talk about this," Professor Rae said, interrupting his lecture and moving from behind the lectern on the stage. "They are getting to me," he said. "This is not easy." 
That, perhaps, was precisely the point. On most prestigious college campuses, it is easy for students, most of them comfortable and confident, to ignore the people who sweep out their dorms, tend their manicured quads and dole out burgers at the campus food court. But this week at Yale, with 2,000 technical, clerical, service and maintenance workers on strike as students returned to school, the fault lines of class and status separating what some here see as the blue bloods versus the blue collars were revealed in a particularly stark and glaring way.
Take the protest Thursday night outside the house of Yale's president, Richard C. Levin. As men in smart navy suits, well-heeled donors and other supporters of the university made their way into the house for a reception, hundreds of protesters clogged the sidewalk. Some wore sandals, others sneakers or working boots. They stamped their feet, rattled soda cans filled with coins and shouted from megaphones. From inside the three-story red brick house, the guests peeked out from behind white shutters only to be met with cries that Mr. Levin face them.
"Come on out, Mr. Levin, and stop being a coward," shouted Emma Wright, 62, who works in the university's dietary department. "I think Yale's attitude stinks because Yale has no respect."
The strike is centered on a dispute over wages, pensions and job security.
In the middle of all of this is the Yale student body. 
Around campus, the unions have hung up fliers that read: "My conscience or my education: Yale students should not be forced to make this choice!"
As a result of the strike, a few professors have moved classes off campus to nearby churches, halls or restaurants, but for many students, attending class means crossing picket lines.
"I'm here to study," said Vicky Nguyen, 19, a sophomore. Ms. Nguyen said she would ask professors to move classes off campus so that she would not have to cross picket lines, but if they chose otherwise, she said, she would still attend. "I respect the unions and all, but I do need to finish my studies."
The strike has also prompted some students to ask if this is how they want their university to be identified. On the editorial pages of The Yale Daily News, there has been sparring between those who say that, while they understand the concerns of the workers, it is time for them to get back to their jobs and those who contend that the administration's refusal to reach a deal only furthers the perception of Yale as snobbish.
"I almost didn't come to Yale because of its reputation as being elitist," said Matthew Fitzgerald, a senior English major. "I had this impression of Yale as surrounded by moats and fences."
He said that after he visited the campus and met other students, he found that was not the case, at least as far as the student body was concerned. However, he said the administration was very high-handed and condescending in the way it treated the workers. "I'll be proud to attach my name to Yale when I go on," he said, "but Yale has to live what it teaches."
In his class, Professor Rae was trying to teach a bit of history in how Yale found itself the dominant employer in a city that once boasted a thriving industrial economy. In 1947, 27,742 workers earned their pay in the city's factories, the largest being the Winchester arms company. Only 50 years later, in 1997, just 2,804 people worked in factories.
Professor Rae told the students all of this led to "a kind of train wreck between Yale University and the economic trajectory of our city."
"Yale has a lot to learn about being the dominant employer," he said.
Still, Professor Rae decided not to move his classroom off campus. "The gesture of renting a room at the New Haven Lawn Club to strike a blow for the working man is worthy of Tom Wolfe," he said.
In fact, there is not much radical chic on Yale's campus these days, with many students trying to just ignore the strike. 
"I kind of like walking through the picket lines," said Scott Wexler, 18. But he said he hopes the strike ends soon, if only to end the noise. He pointed to his room, near where the protesters congregate inthe morning. "I'm hoping I can start sleeping past 7:30 -- that's kind of the main issue for me."
For the majority of the workers, the main issue is one of respect.
"If you're the premier university in the country, bring us up to that caliber," said Lyle Widdows, who works in the dining services. "I am proud to say I work for Yale; I just wish Yale would feel the same."
In an interview, President Levin, who has led the university since 1993, said he had hoped that, after transforming the way the university related to the city over the last decade, his administration could begin to change Yale's relationship with unions. "We spent many months trying to transform what had become a counterproductive relationship," he said. While he said he was still optimistic that talks could yield a breakthrough, Mr. Levin also said it had been the unions' choice to stop negotiating and strike.
Gerry Chabbuck, 46, a worker in the animal research department, said part of the problem was simply the way negotiators for Yale talked to the workers. "Their attitude is that we should be grateful to work for wonderful Yale," he said. "Do it and like it."
Maureen Mallone Jones, 50, works in Yale's library. She has worked for the university for 23 years and earns about $39,000 a year but said she was afraid that when she retires she will have to take another job because her pension, as it stands, will not come close to paying her bills.
"Yale cannot help but be the elite institution that it is," she said. "But you have to ask, are they really the liberal institution they claim to be?"
For many students, it is not an easy question to answer.
"I think the university has done great things for the city," said Carlos Aramayo, a 28-year-old history graduate student who supports the unions. "The problem Yale has is that their attitude is all about granting and gifting things and not listening."
Professor Rae, whose book about New Haven, "City: Urbanism and Its End," is scheduled to be published by Yale University Press in October, said, "The university for a long part of its history has insulted and patronized working-class New Haven."
Of course, the university has also made an effort to help revitalize the city, particularly in recent years. Besides being the city's largest employer, with a payroll of more than $800 million in 2002, and bringing more than 550,000 visitors to the city every year, Yale, among other things, has a program that provides incentives for employees to buy homes in New Haven. As crime in the city has dropped, new shops have opened and sections of downtown long dormant are coming back to life.
Still, all one has to do is walk 15 minutes from campus to see how the city is still starkly divided between rich and poor, black and white, Yale and everyone else. And with the strike, that division is taken to where the students live.
Although life goes on much as it would, the strike is always present -- if not in the movable protests of clanging pots and pans, then in the smaller things, like having to eat off campus because only one dining hall remains open, or having bathrooms cleaned only once or twice a week rather than every day.
"I am proud that I go to Yale," said Thomas Frampton, a 20-year-old sophomore. "But Yale has a reputation for being elitist, and never have I believed that more than now. They need to settle this strike."

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STRIKES (89%); RIOTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); RELIGION (73%); RESTAURANTS (67%) Colleges and Universities; Labor; Strikes; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%) Yale University

INDUSTRY:  SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: Marc Santora; Richard C Levin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



171 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING; 
Keeneland Yearling Sale to Open Amid Some Concerns

BYLINE:  By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
As in all high-priced auctions, horsemen at the Keeneland September Yearling Sale, which begins tomorrow in Lexington, Ky., will spend a great deal of time eyeing the tote board, hoping to see the price on unproven babies go up, up and up. But a who's who of thoroughbred racing as well as bargain hunters will have other concerns demanding their attention, namely the economic impact of a mysterious disease that caused the deaths of thousands of foals in 2001, and the fate of the New York Racing Association.
 The fact that 4,294 foals are listed in the sales catalogue has buoyed many breeders and owners, especially after a disease dubbed Mare Reproductive Loss Syndrome, and traced to Eastern tent caterpillars, caused the deaths of more than 2,500 foals and fetuses in central Kentucky in the spring of 2001. Although the number of foals listed is down from the 4,367 catalogued in 2002, it doesn't provide a complete picture of the loss the illness inflicted on the breeding industry in Kentucky: in 2000, 10,109 foals were registered with the Jockey Club versus 7,263 in 2001. A University of Louisville study put the financial cost of the 2001 outbreak at $336 million. 
 "I really didn't think you'd see the numbers we'd seen in the past, and the first couple days look very strong as far as pedigree and quality," said Jim Scatuorchio, who owned and retains a share of More Than Ready, winner of the King's Bishop Stakes at Saratoga in 2000. "The colt covered more than 100 mares in 2001 and only 62 made it to foal and 27 to the sale."
The 12-day sale is as important to thoroughbred industry as perhaps the Triple Crown is to racing. Everyone from the sheikhs of Dubai to Coolmore Stud, the Ireland-based multinational breeding outfit, join American industrialists to pay top dollar for the best-bred horses in the opening days of the sale. Cowboy-hat-wearing and trailer-hauling trainers and owners from the grits-and-hard-toast circuits from Idaho, Louisiana and Pennsylvania replace them over the final 10 days. A sagging economy hurt the 2002 Keeneland September Sale -- $210 million in horse sales were recorded compared to $254 million in 2001.
In addition to the reduced numbers, sales officials also are concerned about the political pressure on the New York Racing Association, which is the subject of a federal inquiry. The New York State attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, and the New York State comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, have questioned the racing association's business practices in two recent reports.
Federal prosecutors are also investigating the racing association to determine if top managers engaged in a conspiracy to commit tax fraud. The inquiry stems from the convictions of 16 betting clerks for cheating on their taxes and centers on whether the racing association could have prevented their actions. But the racing association has staunch defenders among owners, breeders and trainers, who say that New York offers the finest racing in North America, if not the world. 
"It's the best racing in the world many weeks of the year," said Nick Nicholson, Keeneland's president. "The people who come here in September buy horses to win races in Saratoga. New York racing is the showcase of our industry, and maybe the New York Racing Association's board needs to fix whatever needs to be fixed, but they are bright, capable people who have contributed some very important things to the industry as a whole. The stakes are beyond New York."
Nicholson says the next 12 days in the sales ring, as well as the drama in Albany, are vital to the health of the nation's thoroughbred industry. As usual in horse racing, buyers and sellers are rich in hope. Among the most eagerly anticipated young colts and fillies are the crops by such new sires as Fusaichi Pegasus, the winner of the Kentucky Derby in 2000, Giant's Causeway, the runner-up in the Breeders' Cup Classic in 2000, and More Than Ready.
"You're looking for your Triple Crown horses who can become potential home-run stallions," Bob Baffert, the three-time Derby-winning trainer, said. "There still will be some in this bunch, but it doesn't look as deep as in years past. You just got to find that right one." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); AUCTIONS (90%); HORSES (90%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAX FRAUD (85%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (84%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); CONSPIRACY (61%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%) Horse Racing

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: THE JOCKEY CLUB (55%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (55%) Keeneland (Race Track) (Kentucky)

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%) SIC7948 RACING; 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (55%) Joe Drape

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



172 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
BABSON, IRVING K.

 BODY:
 BABSON--Irving K. 67, a well known trade publishing executive, passed from this earth on September 2, 2003. He was a resident of Turnberry Isle, Aventura (Miami, FL). Mr. Babson was the former Chairman of BMT Publications, Inc., New York, NY, a division of TSF Communications. He joined BMT in October, 1963, as an advertising sales executive, following a brief carrer in accounting with S. D. Leidersdorf. Mr. Babson flourished in sales and marketing, effectively marrying his background in finance and accounting with marketing and sales strategy. He rapidly advanced to Advertising Director of BMT and subsequently was named Associate Publisher of Ice Cream World, Co-Publisher of United States Tobacco Journal and Publisher of Radio and Television Weekly. In 1974, Mr. Babson became an equal stockholder with the two remaining company founders. Forseeing the growth of commerical gambling in the United States, he set his sights on the development of a publication specifically directed to this rapidly expanding segment of the economy. In 1979, Gaming Business magazine emerged as the first publication of its kind. As founding Publisher, Mr. Babson was active with state gaming commissions and legislatures, providing previously unavailable data on domestic and international commercial gaming, as well as on illegal gaming activities worldwide. Mr. Babson also served as Publisher of BMT's Convenience Store News, Smoke Shop Magazine, Electronic Distribution Weekly and a host of high tech trade show dailies, including IEEE, WESCON and others. During Mr. Babson's tenure, each of BMT's publications became the editorial and advertising leader in its respective industry. 
In December 1986, BMT was sold to publicly held Tribune/ Swab-Fox Companies, which named Mr. Babson a member of its Board of Directors. He retired in 1991, soon embarking on a second career in currency trading, founding Belize Equity, and, later, Holdsworth Investments. He also served on the Boards of a number of start up ventures. Mr. Babson was graduated from the Baruch School of Business, City College of New York (CCNY, now CUNY), in 1957. In the mid 1960s he participated in tobacco industry sponsored seminars conducted at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration. For many years, he was listed in Who's Who in America, Who's Who in Finance and Industry, and the International Directory of Distinguished Leadership. He was invited in the 1970s to become a Friar--a member of the prestigious Friars Club of New York. He was also a member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and a number of other professional organizations. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife, Laurie, and his parents, Matthew and Miriam Babson. Mr. Babson is survived by his three adult children, Stacey Babson Smith (Craig), Mia Babson Goldklang (Robert, M.D), and Christopher. He is survived by his four grandchildren, Remy and Justin (Stacey), and Matthew and Cole (Mia). Mr. Babson's many, many friends and loved ones are heartbroken at the loss of this truly extraordinary man who possessed a rare combination of outstanding intelligence, exceptionally creative business skills and an utterly bottomless heart. A burial service will be held Monday, September 8, at 10 AM, at the New Mt. Zion section of Hillside Cemetery in Lyndhurst, NJ. Donations may be made in memory of Irving K. Babson to the Gilda's Club of South Florida, 119 Rose Drive, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33316.
 BABSON--Irving K. In the dictionary under "friend" is your picture. We will miss you but we will always remember and love you. Joel, Mel, Steve, Norman, Richard, Paul, Peter, Rob 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); TOBACCO STORES (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); CHILDREN (73%); SALES PLAN (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); GAMING (68%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (68%); TRADE SHOWS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); PUBLISHING (58%) 

COMPANY: TRIBUNE/SWAB-FOX COS INC (66%); WORLD CO (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON:  BABSON, IRVING K. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



173 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2729 words

HEADLINE: Selling One (or More) for theGipper 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: TROY, Mich. 

 BODY:
SMACK in the middle of a blackout and with only a battery-powered lamp to guide him through his first quarterly news conference, David A. Stockman started his new life as a chief executive inauspiciously here last month.
 Mr. Stockman, Ronald Reagan's former whiz kid, was once youthful and prematurely gray, but he is now closer to prematurely white. He still talks about bold visions that sound good, at least in theory. And Mr. Stockman, the former budget wonk, still has stacks of binders like the kind he was famous for toting around all over Washington under his arm. This time, however, they are white instead of black and are chock-full of notes about auto parts instead of the federal budget. 
 On Aug. 11, Mr. Stockman, 56, took over as chief executive of Collins & Aikman, a struggling auto supplier based in this suburb of Detroit. Much, or at least a decent chunk, of his life since leaving the White House has been spent assembling this company, which is trying to corner the market on car rugs, convertible tops, dashboards and other parts of the auto interior. Until last month, he served only as its chairman. 
But now Mr. Stockman's baby is in a tough spot. 
Collins & Aikman, with 25,000 workers worldwide and close to $4 billion in annual revenue, is highly leveraged, does not make money and operates in an increasingly embattled industry. 
The stock, which traded at more than $28 in May 2002, now trades at $2.96, though it bottomed out at near $2 shortly before Mr. Stockman became chief executive. He is the third man in the job in about a year. 
The Big Three automakers account for roughly three-fourths of the company's customers at a time when the Big Three are shrinking, living meagerly on thin margins and beating suppliers over the head to cut costs. Making matters worse, Collins & Aikman is feuding with its top customer, the Chrysler Group. 
As if all that were not enough, Collins & Aikman's accounting firm, KPMG, has not signed off on its second-quarter results. KPMG is looking into accusations by two former executives related to dealings between the company and a director, as well as the acquisition in 2001 of a plastics component maker. Collins & Aikman has said the accusations are "without merit." 
How did one of the main spark plugs of the Reagan revolution end up commuting from his home in Greenwich, Conn., where he lives with his wife and teenage daughter -- another daughter is at college -- to run an industrial salvage operation like this?
"Since the vision for this company was originally mine, going all the way back to 1988, now was the time to step in myself and really bring this together, bring some intensity, a heartbeat to the company," he said from an office overlooking a mall far different from the one in Washington. No obelisk monument here, but a big sign visible from Mr. Stockman's window advertises Sears, Marshall Field's and J. C. Penney.
"You make your bed; you sleep in it," he said. "This was my idea; I'm going to stick with it. I'm going to make it happen and make sure it becomes a great success."
There are skeptics, of course. 
Last month, Sean J. Egan, of the independent credit rating firm Egan-Jones, which has rated the company's debt as junk, said Collins & Aikman "might be the next wreck in the auto sector."
"Collins & Aikman is not alone," Mr. Egan said in an interview. "Many of the weaker suppliers are faced with some of the most trying times in the last couple of decades."
Martin King, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's, which also has the company's debt at a junk rating, was more optimistic. "They made a number of acquisitions that doubled the size of the company, and it's been a bit of a rough road for them in bringing the companies together," he said. But, he added, "they have started to make some improvements and progress."
Another securities analyst, speaking on condition of anonymity, was also pessimistic. 
"He's got in over his head, and it's not working out," he said of Mr. Stockman. "He had a great concept which hasn't panned out. The concept was to consolidate subsectors of the parts industry where he could have a dominant position." 
But Mr. Stockman is accustomed to doubters. 
Financial analysts? They are "nervous Nellies and hand-wringers" who do not understand Detroit, he says. That was why he started his investment group, Heartland Industrial Partners, in 1999, because his partners at the Blackstone Group, the private equity powerhouse where he worked for more than a decade, were reluctant to sink too much new money into the old economy. 
The idea was that he and his partners would build credibility in Detroit, where long product cycles mean that automakers view financial engineers warily. The money would be locked up for more than a decade -- investors include AIG, J. P. Morgan and a pension fund for Michigan state employees -- while the Heartland partners built three or four industrial companies that would dominate niches of the market. 
The idea of a manufacturing investment fund appeals to unions. In fact, the trustees who oversee the pension fund for the Steelworkers of America decided to invest $25 million with Heartland. 
At a time when domestic manufacturing jobs seem to be disappearing rapidly, he contends that suppliers to the Big Three can succeed if they cut costs, globalize operations -- going to China for low cost parts, if necessary -- and focus on particular swaths of the market. He says that demographic trends point to increasing auto sales and that worries over the Big Three, like their pension liabilities, are overblown. 
He also says that because modern automakers require rapid delivery of parts to assembly plants, demand will remain strong for local parts manufacturing. "I believed in it," Mr. Stockman said of the auto sector, "and I still do, profoundly."
SO whatever happened to David Stockman anyway?
First, a recap of the early years, which were well-worn journalistic turf during his time in the White House: Growing up in western Michigan, he was an idealistic, precocious and conservative farm boy, but he drifted sharply to the left at Michigan State University in the 1960's. His collegiate involvement in an antiwar group, Vietnam Summer, even put him on a watch list kept by a branch of the Michigan State Police known as the Red Squad. 
He graduated in 1968, with a liberal arts major. The young Mr. Stockman was curious about spiritual and political matters; his foremost mentor in college was a liberal pastor who led him to study the writings of Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian and social philosopher. 
His next stop was Harvard Divinity School, where he cast off his left-wing flirtation and, among other things, became a baby sitter for Daniel Patrick Moynihan's children, a stratagem he says was aimed more at learning about politics than about child care, according to his 1986 book, "The Triumph of Politics: Why the Reagan Revolution Failed." When Mr. Moynihan, an idiosyncratic Democrat, and sometime professor turned Nixon adviser, was in town, Mr. Stockman picked up skills like how to properly mix Bloody Marys. He also says he read a decade's worth of Congressional Quarterly to keep up with Mr. Moynihan in late-night conversations. 
Having caught the political bug, his first job in Washington was working for John Anderson, the Republican congressman who would become the independent third man in the 1980 presidential race. This would later come in handy for Mr. Stockman, who was asked by Mr. Reagan's campaign to play the part of his old boss in a mock debate. 
Introduction made. 
Mr. Stockman was elected to Congress in 1976, when he was in his late 20's. He was part of a coterie of econophiles that included Jack Kemp and preached the then-obscure doctrine of supply-side economics, theorizing that big tax cuts would stimulate spending, productivity and growth. 
When Mr. Reagan decided to tap Mr. Stockman, his John Anderson stand-in, as budget chief, supply-side theory got its shot at the big time. 
"We were considered like kooks," he said. "What do you mean low tax rates are going to do any good? What do you mean capital gains shouldn't be taxed? What do you mean that if you provide powerful incentives for risk taking that you will get an acceleration in technology?"
Judging from the $400 tax refund checks that the Bush administration has been sending, it is not just a kooky theory anymore -- though many Democrats would beg to differ. 
"The whole world has gone to supply-side economics," Mr. Stockman said, adding, "all these ideas have been fully vindicated and almost universally adopted."
He has even changed his tune on the Reagan days. Then, he was often outspoken, and skirted firing after a confessional story in The Atlantic Monthly in 1981, by William Greider, had him bemoaning Reagonomics' failure to shrink the government.
What became a particular source of frustration for him was the intent of the president's other men to ratchet up military spending, which made the task of reining in deficits impossible. He contended that no department should be exempt from the cleaver, but he was often outflanked. In one presentation to the president, Caspar W. Weinberger, the defense secretary, included a picture of three soldiers; one, a rifleless Pygmy, represented the Carter military budget. 
"The second was a four-eyed wimp who looked like Woody Allen, carrying a tiny rifle. That was -- me? -- the O.M.B. defense budget," he wrote in his book. The third soldier, a G.I. Joe with an M-16 trained on the four-eyed wimp, was the Defense Department's own budget. 
The Reagan revolution, he argued in his book, failed badly in its mission to shrink the government. It "was not the advent of a new day, but a lapse into fiscal indiscipline on a scale never before experienced in peacetime."
Today, he sees it much differently. 
"He was absolutely right on defense, and I was totally wrong," Mr. Stockman said of Mr. Reagan. "The deficit was ballooning and anything I could cut I was for cutting. He was a hundred percent right because that is what brought the Soviet Union down, that is what ended and purged the world of the scourge of Communism, that is what really allowed for the flowering of liberal democracies in the 90's," he said. In Mr. Stockman's view, it also allowed for lower military spending in future years.
How dogmatic was his smaller-government theology? He was the only Michigan congressman to vote in 1979 against the Chrysler bailout. Today, the Chrysler Group is Collins & Aikman's largest customer. But to Chrysler's new German management, that's all history. 
With Chrysler still struggling, after all these years, DaimlerChrysler executives are focused on a much fresher grievance. The automaker contends that Collins & Aikman owes it $16 million, part of a refund formula traditionally computed as cost savings accrue over product life cycles. But Collins & Aikman says the numbers add up differently and the total is considerably smaller, people with knowledge of the dispute said. 
The standoff, first reported last week by The Detroit Free Press, has strained relations. Chrysler recently stopped using Collins & Aikman as the supplier of bumper parts for its Jeep Liberty, an unusual step in the midst of a production cycle, though the contract is a small fraction of Chrysler's business.
"When we do have a supplier issue, Chrysler Group has a long history of working collaboratively with its supply base in resolving business matters," said David Barnas, a Chrysler spokesman, when asked about the matter.
Mr. Stockman said he valued Chrysler's business but added, "we do have continuous disputes about how their cost reduction goals, and our cost management capabilities, and our profit requirements, can be balanced."
"From time to time, that results in either tension or market tests where we have to choose to abandon work or meet and beat the competition," he said. "This is daily life in the auto supply base today."
A LACK of leverage on pricing has been a killer for many auto suppliers that focus on the Big Three, said Maryann Keller, an auto analyst. Collins & Aikman "just happens to be in the part of the automotive component market where I don't know what you do to get enough pricing leverage to generate an attractive return on assets," she said. "It's tough on a commodity product." 
Richard E. Dauch, the chairman and chief executive of American Axle, a supplier on much firmer footing than Collins & Aikman, said Mr. Stockman, a friend for many years, should not be counted out. 
Mr. Stockman worked his supplier revivalism thesis successfully while a partner at Blackstone, where he ended up after a stint in the mid-1980's at Salomon Brothers. While Blackstone had a controlling stake in American Axle, Mr. Dauch said, Mr. Stockman helped the company expand globally, diversify its customer base and finance modernization. 
"David Stockman did a brilliant job helping us," said Mr. Dauch, a Chrysler executive in the bailout years. "He voted the wrong way," he said, "but he's a fine man."
He likened the current pressures between Detroit and its suppliers to "an economic shakedown" that could make relations difficult. "Sometimes there's a conflict of objectives," he said, "and that's where management becomes an art."
Mr. Stockman's chosen Blackstone specialty, Rust Belt reclamation projects, led him to Collins & Aikman, then a division of the California-based Wickes Companies -- he called it a "1980's-era conglomerate that made no sense whatsoever." Collins & Aikman had its origins in the mid-1800's as a window shade company but diversified into a variety of textile-related businesses. 
Wickes "had a furniture company, ladies' swimsuits, hosiery, a home improvement chain," he said. "Our view at Blackstone was, 'Let's buy this conglomerate, sell the parts off, get down to the core,' which we thought was a great company, Collins & Aikman, and then try to build that."
Today, the most potentially lucrative business is dashboard assemblies. Collins & Aikman makes them for vehicles as mainstream as the Chevrolet Impala and as fancy as Porsche's new Cayenne sport utility. But competition is considerably more heated for dashboards than for car rugs.
Detroit's long price war, Mr. Stockman said, is good for business. 
"This whole so-called rebate war that has Wall Street's teeth chattering, because they don't understand anything really about the car business, is actually, simply, a marketing tool that is brilliantly succeeding and G.M. has figured that out," he said of his second-largest customer. 
"For the interior guy, it's manna from heaven," he added, because many buyers want more luxurious models. That has created a vibrant market for more complicated, feature-laden dashboards, with navigation systems, CD changers and a host of instrumentation that "plays right down our fairway," he said.
In his first weeks on the job, Mr. Stockman has promised to shutter unproductive factories and cut 14 percent of the salaried work force of 5,400. He says he will bring the principles of lean manufacturing to other parts of the business.
"On the factory floor, 20 defects per million is about all the customer will tolerate," he said. "We have in our headquarters operation a lot of places where they're making 10,000 errors per million."
BEYOND Collins & Aikman, it is hard to read too deeply into how Heartland is faring because the other three companies are privately held. The most notable is Metaldyne, a metal forger that makes parts for engines, chassis and transmissions and is run by another Heartland partner, Timothy D. Leuliette.
Mr. Stockman said of Collins & Aikman: "We're not particularly focused on measuring quarterly changes. Our ultimate realization for our investors will be the value of the stock many years down the road."
He says he is neither "in the C.E.O. business as a career" nor an interim executive. But he is glad not to be a politician. 
"Politics is a young man's sport," he said. "You have to have a combination of idealism and naivete, and I had both. It's draining and taxing and exhilarating all at once." 
"The thing I didn't like about government is that nobody had a report card," he added. "You could always blame the other party, the last administration or some defunct figure of the past."
"In this business," he said, "if you don't make your numbers, we get our report card."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "This was my idea," said David A. Stockman, the new chief executive of Collins & Aikman of Troy, Mich. "I'm going to stick with it. I'm going to make it happen." (Photo by Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times)(pg. 1); David A. Stockman, right, in 1985 with Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, left, and Ronald Reagan, whom he served as budget director. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 11); David A. Stockman with some of the plastic auto supplies that are made by his struggling company, Collins & Aikman. (Photo by Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times)(pg. 12) Chart: "Trying for a Turnaround"David A. Stockman, the former Reagan administration budget chief, last month took over as chief executive of the auto supplier Collins & Aikman. He faces a difficult job, as the company is mired in a slump. Graph tracks the Collins & Aikman stock price since 2001. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) Automobiles; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); KPMG (81%); COLLINS & AIKMAN CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COLLINS & AIKMAN CORP (CKC) ; Collins & Aikman Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (81%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (81%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%) STOCKMAN, DAVID A. ; Danny Hakim; David A Stockman; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



174 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: The World: A Bedeviled Occupation; 
For a Bleak Horizon, Rose-Tinted Glasses

BYLINE:  By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq 

 BODY:
INSIDE the cool and carpeted heart of the American administration here, L. Paul Bremer III, the chief American civilian, offered to put the country's deteriorating security situation in perspective for anyone who might harbor doubts about what had been accomplished.
 It was Tuesday afternoon, and Mr. Bremer had just returned from the United States, where he had cut short a Vermont vacation after the car bombing of the Imam Ali Shrine in Najaf. Nearly 100 Iraqis died in that attack, including one of the country's most important clerics, Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim. 
 It had been a terrible week. The people seeking to wreck the vast American project under way in Iraq had shown again that they could strike with astonishing ferocity at the place and time of their choosing. 
But Mr. Bremer, dressed in a red tie and blue blazer with a folded white handkerchief tucked into his left coat pocket, seemed a picture of calm. No matter how bad things had turned in Iraq, he said, they could never be as bad as they had been before the Americans arrived.
"Terrorism is not new in Iraq," Mr. Bremer told the assembled Western, Iraqi and Arab reporters. "The government of Iraq was a terrorist government, a terrorist government which terrorized its own people."
"But the Iraqi people are now free," he continued. "They do not have to worry about the secret police coming to get them in the middle of the night, and they don't have to worry about their husbands and brothers being taken off and shot, or their wives being taken to rape rooms. Those days are over."
The statement, however accurate, seemed to encapsulate the trouble into which the American enterprise has fallen in Iraq, in the wake of four lethal car bombings in a month. The local offices of the world's principal aid organization were crippled, one of Iraq's most important clerics was dead and the Americans seemed powerless to stop the bombers from striking again. The best that could be said, Mr. Bremer's comments suggested, was that things had been worse before.
The initiative in Iraq seemed to slip away from the Americans last week. Only a few weeks before, a campaign of raids against the loyalists of Saddam Hussein, coupled with a concerted effort to rejuvenate this battered country, conveyed the impression of an American leadership propelled forward by its own self-confidence. The terrorist attacks, which engulfed television screens and dominated conversations about Iraq, seemed suddenly to change that.
Outside the gates of the Republican Palace, the bunkered headquarters of the American administration, the anger of ordinary Iraqis seemed to swell. Only a few hours before Mr. Bremer spoke to reporters, the fourth car bomb had exploded inside Iraq's police academy. Like the attacks before it, this one was aimed for maximum symbolic effect. The academy is the headquarters of the American effort to transfer responsibility for Iraq's internal security into Iraqi hands. Some 37,000 Iraqi police officers had graduated from this academy and others like it, and more were on the way.
The terrorists, apparently by enlisting an Iraqi inside the academy to help them, had blown the place up.
With much of the compound in ruins, the recruits in their uniforms streamed out. While many vowed to return to the work, others vented anger, not so much at the bombers as at the Americans who had promised them better times. "This is the Americans' responsibility," one Iraqi said, wagging a finger. "Iraq never had car bombings before."
The man was not alone in his frustration. Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, the brother of the slain cleric and a member of Iraq's interim government, demanded an end to the American occupation. Muhammad Bahr ul-Uloom, another member of the governing council, suspended his participation in the government until, he said, the Americans could protect the country's sacred sites.
Others took matters into their own hands. Members of the Badr Brigade, the armed militia of one of Iraq's largest Shiite political parties, fanned out across the city of Najaf. The foot soldiers of Jaish Mehdi, a private army controlled by Muqtada Sadr, a young rabble-rousing Shiite cleric, hung about the edges of a funeral demonstration in Baghdad, alternately tamping down tempers and stirring them up.
"I don't know how much longer I can control my people," said Sayid Nael Musawi, a leader of the group that controls the Badr Brigade.
Yet as the reality on the ground seemed to shift here, the Americans carried on as if the situation were more or less the same. Inside the Republican Palace, the briefings by American and British civilians seemed, in their soothing tones, to be describing some other place, perhaps a suburb of Atlanta or Dallas, but hardly the city outside.
"It is true that there are some parts of Baghdad where there are sewage breaks, where the sewage system is not functioning properly," said Charles Heatly, the spokesman for the Coalition Provisional Authority. "I would remind you that before the war, there was an awful lot of these problems, and indeed we fixed a lot, and I think the overall situation in Baghdad is better than it was before the war."
Of course, fixing sewers and electrical lines and schools and hospitals is central to the American plan to bring normalcy to a country that has seldom known it. And in that way, the American juggernaut rolled on, repairing water pumps, erecting bridges, even paying thousands of Iraqis $15 a week to pull weeds from clotted irrigation canals. Slowly, off the television screens, away from the bomb blasts, the transformation of Iraq moved forward.
Yet even in this respect, the impression of inevitability was marred by carelessness and ineptitude. Upon returning from the United States, Mr. Bremer made it his first order of business, those who met him said, to upbraid members of the governing council for talking with the press. Some council members reacted angrily, telling Mr. Bremer that if more were not done to protect them, the chambers of the Iraqi governing council could quickly become a morgue.
The message, it seemed, failed to land. Dr. Raja Habib Khuzai, a council member, said in an interview last week that she had spent much of the previous two weeks pleading with the Americans to protect her or, if they couldn't do that, to train the amateurs she had hired with her own money. The Americans, she said, were invariably polite, but invariably unhelpful. "Is this difficult for the Americans?" Dr. Khuzai asked.
The Americans could not find a better ally than Dr. Khuzai. The former director of a maternity hospital, she is smart, committed to building a new Iraq and even, despite it all, as quick to laugh as a schoolgirl. Yet even her good cheer has been strained.
In speeches here and in the United States, Mr. Bremer often mentions that all of Iraq's 200 hospitals are up and running. The reality is somewhat different. One of those hospitals is the Maternity and Children's Hospital of Diwaniya, about 100 miles south of Baghdad. Among other things, it needs more electricity, not least to power its ward for premature babies. Before the war, doctors there say, an emergency line kept the juice flowing around the clock. Since then, with one ward closed for lack of power, the other has become a ghastly place -- overcrowded, open to infection, its floors covered with mothers and aunts too afraid to leave their babies alone.
Weeks ago, Dr. Khuzai said, she pulled Mr. Bremer aside and told him about the ward. Mr. Bremer was moved, she said, and assured her he would dispatch an electrical generator right away. In fact, Dr. Khuzai said, a generator duly arrived, but it was wrong for the job. It was returned, and after some weeks, another arrived. But the second generator, Dr. Khuzai said, doesn't work either, though she concedes it may be her own staff that is unable to make it work.
"I'm just trying to do this for the hospital," she said.
Amid the bleakness of recent events, a promising moment unfolded in a ceremony in Baghdad last week. After more than a month of discussion, the governing council chose a cabinet, 24 men and 1 woman, to take over the ministries of oil, health and foreign affairs and make them Iraqi again.
There were plenty of reasons to doubt the importance of the event. The ceremony was held deep inside the walls of the Republican Palace, the threat of assassination evidently too great to stage it anywhere else. Ordinary Iraqis, the people the fledgling Iraqi government is meant to serve, were, for the most part, barred from attending.
Yet one by one, the ministers stepped up to the podium, with the members of the governing council seated before them. Some of the new ministers had weathered the worst years of Mr. Hussein's rule; others had returned from exile. By their resumes passed out beforehand, with degrees from Harvard and the London School of Economics, they seemed up to their jobs.
By the looks on their faces, they seemed full of hope, whatever else might be happening outside.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a maternity hospital in Diwaniya, Iraq, where power is unreliable, mothers stay beside their premature babies. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Last June, looters carried copper cables in Iraq. Disorder has plagued the occupation. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (62%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) L Paul III Bremer; Saddam Hussein; Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



175 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: The World: Mid-Course Calculations; 
Bush Bets That the World Will Help Him in Iraq

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
NOW that President Bush is going back to the United Nations for troops and money to save his occupation strategy in Iraq, the question is whether he has burned too many bridges to get the help he needs.
 More than a few countries have taken not-so-quiet satisfaction in watching Mr. Bush move, in four months, from triumphal declarations to a plea to the world to help an occupying army beset by troubles. Some are clearly tempted to think of this as payback time. 
 But Mr. Bush is betting that in the end, even the nations that refused to back the war in the spring now have a compelling interest in making Iraq work.
It is a bet whose outcome may prove a critical turning point in the wild ride of Mr. Bush's presidency that began on a Tuesday morning two years ago when terrorists attacked the United States, prompting Mr. Bush to declare the world divided between countries that were with America and those that were not.
Now, the troops that marched into Baghdad with little opposition see no easy way to march out. And a year after the administration issued its National Security Strategy, there is little talk in Washington of the next pre-emptive action. Instead, even Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, along with other conservatives, talks of a need for a "midcourse correction in Iraq." And Mr. Bush, who is to address the nation tonight about the war on terrorism, with emphasis on Iraq, has rediscovered the need for give-and-take diplomacy.
But around the world last week, many people were asking whether Mr. Bush was changing his strategy, or just his tactics.
Either way, the president and his aides know that they are facing the brutal mathematics of troop deployments and budget deficits-- and the allies know it, too.
While Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld notes that about 30 nations have made contributions to the occupation, the fact is that of the 163,000 troops now in Iraq, 86 percent, or six out of seven, are American. And when promised anonymity, Mr. Bush's most senior aides concede they would be lucky to bring in another 30,000. Those could come from India, Pakistan, Turkey and other nations. Even if they were willing, the French are already tied down in other countries, and the Germans are busy in Afghanistan. "There's not a lot of excess capacity in the world," one of Mr. Bush's closest aides said Friday.
So even if the Iraqi military can be retrained and deployed on the streets, none of Mr. Bush's aides can foresee a large withdrawal of troops in the next 18 months. That makes it almost certain that American troops will be deeply engaged in Iraq a year from now, when Mr. Bush is deeply engaged in seeking re-election.
Against that backdrop, the most interesting test Mr. Bush will face in the next few weeks will be whether other nations will see America's distress as an opportunity to re-balance a power relationship with the United States that they see as lopsided.
Benjamin R. Barber, a University of Maryland professor who has written about the problems the United States has had with its allies during the Bush administration, put it this way last week: "I suspect that the Germans and the French and Kofi Annan are now thinking about saying, 'Are you reconsidering a strategy in which you claim the right to unilaterally decide what is in your interest, or are you just asking us to come in and help clean up your mess?' "
Professor Barber's own impression is that Mr. Bush is acting tactically and, in the end, the allies will do the same. They are likely, he expects, to name their price -- more shared political control in Iraq, more oil contracts, a bigger role in reconstruction -- in return for offers of modest help.
So far, foreign leaders are playing hard to get. France's president, Jacques Chirac, after meeting with the German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, told reporters that Mr. Bush's plan seems "quite far from what for us is the primary objective -- that is, to transfer political responsibility to an Iraqi government as rapidly as possible."
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said last week that Mr. Bush was trying to do just that, and many administration officials portray their proposal for a new United Nations resolution as a way to build a bridge to the creation of a new Iraqi army and free elections. Mr. Powell's new mission is to build that bridge without surrendering too much American control over the troops and over the shaping of a new political culture.
The problem is that the White House wildly underestimated the cost of that effort. White House officials say they did not account for the poor state of Iraq's infrastructure, and a report being drafted for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, parts of which were leaked last week, says there was insufficient planning for the possibility that Iraqi troops would melt away, and that Baathists would conduct a guerrilla war.
But there is no sign that Mr. Bush sees his setbacks in Iraq as anything other than the growing pains of any occupation. One of his closest aides noted recently that occupied Germany looked like a mess for a year and a half -- until the Marshall Plan began.
Still, there is evidence that Mr. Bush's thinking about America's role in nation-building is evolving in ways he could not have imagined during his last campaign.
He came tooffice deeply opposed to using the military for such purposes, and talked of reducing the American presence in Kosovo and Bosnia. When he visited Kosovo early in his presidency, and saw its economic stagnation, he turned an aide in their helicopter and said he now knew the United States forces needed to stay and help build a real economy.
Now, in Iraq, he faces the other side of the problem: His partners in Kosovo and Bosnia -- and now Afghanistan -- say they are plenty busy, and too strapped to help in Iraq.
"There is suddenly a new appreciation for alliances around here," one of Mr. Bush's foreign policy officials said the other day. "But if the world doesn't put its shoulder to the wheel in Iraq, how long will it last?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Last week, Poland took over control of the occupation in a portion of Iraq. Its defense minister, Jerzy Szmajdzinski, right, attended. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) Chart: "A Victory of a Thousand Cuts"Late last month, the number of American soldiers killed in Iraq since May 1, when President Bush declared the end of major combat, surpassed the death toll of 138 during the first phase of the war, which began on March 20. There are currently about 180,000 American troops in Iraq and Kuwait and 21,000 non-Americans, nearly half of them British. Despite the losses, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, visiting Iraq last week, spoke of "remarkable progress" and vowed in an address to the Iraqi people that "snipers and car bombs will not dissuade us from our mission." MARCH 20th War begins* Four Army soldiers are killed in the war's first suicide bombing. APRIL Statue of Saddam Hussein is toppled in Baghdad. Thousands of Iraqis demonstrate against U.S. occupation. Jay Garner arrives as Iraq's postwar civilian administrator. MAY President Bush declares end of major combat operations. L. Paul Bremer III arrives in Baghdad to replace Jay Garner in shake-up of civilian administration. Four marines die when their helicopter crashes into a canal. A fifth drowns trying to save them. JUNE Iraq Body Count Project, an independent group, estimates that 5,000 to10,000 civilians have died in the war. Six British soldiers are killed in two ambushes in southern Iraq. JULY Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld doubles estimated military costs in Iraq to $3.9 billion a month. Commander of allied forces says yearlong tours by American forces may be needed to fight "guerrilla war." Saddam Hussein's sons, Uday and Qusay, are killed in shootout. AUGUST Truck filled with explosives demolishes the United Nations compound in Baghdad, killing 23 people and wounding more than 100. U.S. says it might allow a U.N. force in Iraq if under American control. LAST WEEK Monday, Sept. 1Sgt. Charles T. Caldwell, 38, of North Providence, R.I. (far left), and Staff Sgt. Joseph Camara, 40, of New Bedford, Mass. Both were killed when their vehicle was hit by an explosive device. Staff Sgt. Cameron B. Sarno, 43, of Waipahu, Hawaii, was hit by a truck and killed while changing a tire in Kuwait City. Tuesday, Sept. 2Pfc. Christopher A. Sisson, 20, of Oak Park, Ill., was killed when the UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter he was flying in flipped and crashed. Chart shows the number of fatalities in the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, and British soliders since the start of the War on March 20th. *Four marines died in a helicopter crash March 20, before the official start of the invasion. (Sources by U.S. Dept. of Defense; U.S. Central Command; Army Times; press reports.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); TERRORISM (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); JOHN WARNER (52%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (74%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); POLAND (64%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



176 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: DIARY; 
BoomersAre Leaning On Retirement Plans

 BODY:
The results of a new survey show that company-sponsored plans are crucial to the retirements envisioned by baby boomers. 
 In a nationwide survey of 500 people aged 35 to 55, and with household annual incomes of $50,000 to $125,000, more than half said they expected their primary source of income in retirement to be their employer-sponsored plans. Other, less significant sources included personal savings, Social Security and inheritance. 
 The survey was sponsored by ING Financial Advisers, which is based in Atlanta and is a subsidiary of the ING Group. It was carried out by KRC Research, a research firm based in Washington. 
Eighty-three percent of those questioned said they had an employer-sponsored plan. Nearly half of those said they had not made changes to it in the past year, while a third said that they had increased the percentage of income they invest.
The difficult economy and stock-market losses in recent years have forced many of them to re-evaluate the age at which they will be ready to retire. The average age at which respondents would like to retire is 55, but a majority do not expect to be financially prepared to do so until they are nearly 62.
In a similar survey in 2001, the respondents said they expected to be able to retire at an average age of 60, four years later than they would prefer.
"Boomers are finally realizing that they will have to work longer than they ever thought," said Thomas J. McInerney, the chief executive of ING U.S. Financial Services.
Younger workers, aged 35 to 44, were more likely than the older group to say their preparations for retirement were being hurt by the fact that they were living beyond their means. Some 32 percent of them admitted to that, versus 17 percent of the older group.
One-third of the respondents expect to receive or have received money through inheritances. Two years ago, the expectation of wealth coming from the older generation was more optimistic; 45 percent said they had received or expected to receive an inheritance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Public Opinion

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (57%); ING US INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Ing Group (Internationale Nederlanden Groep Nv)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (57%); INGA (AMS) (57%); ING (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



177 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: From Swagger To Stagger 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On one channel tonight, we can watch the iconic side of the Bush presidency. In the risibly revisionist Showtime movie "DC 9/11: Time of Crisis," George W. Bush is Vin Diesel-tough as he battles terrorists. "If some tinhorn terrorist wants me, tell him to come get me," the fictional president fictionally snaps on Air Force One after the 9/ll attacks. "I'll just be waiting for the bastard."
 On network channels at the same time -- W. is pre-empting himself! -- we can watch the ironic side of the Bush presidency. Even though Bush the Younger has done everything in his power not to replicate the fate of his dad, he is replicating the fate of his dad. Only months after swaggering out of a successful war with Iraq, he is struggling with the economy. His numbers have fallen so fast, Top Gun is now tap dancing. He will address the nation to try to underscore the imaginary line that links the budget-busting pit of Iraq to the heartbreaking pit of 9/11. 
 Just as the father failed to finish off Saddam, so the son has failed to finish off Saddam. Just as the conservatives once carped that the father did not go far enough in Iraq, now the "cakewalk" crowd carps that the son does not go far enough.
"We need to get Iraq right and we're trying to do it a little bit on the cheap," Bill Kristol, the Weekly Standard editor, chastised on "Nightline." "I think we could use more troops; we could certainly use more money."
The more you do, the more you need to do. That's the Mideast quicksand, which is why it is so important to know how you're going to get out before you get sucked in.
Dick Cheney's dark idea that a show of brutal force would scare off terrorists has ended up creating more terrorists. 
Tonight will be a stomach-churning moment for Mr. Bush, and he must be puzzling over how he got snarled in this nightmare, with Old Europe making him beg, North Korea making him wince, the deficit making him cringe, the lost manufacturing jobs making him gulp; with the hawks caving in to the U.N. and to old Saddam Baath army members who want to rebuild a security force; with Representative David Obey demanding the unilateral heads of Rummy and Wolfie, so that "Uncle Sam doesn't become Uncle Sucker"; with the F.B.I. warning that more Islamic terrorists who know how to fly planes may be burrowing into our neighborhoods.
Does Mr. Bush ever wonder if the neocons duped him and hijacked his foreign policy? Some Middle East experts think some of the neocons painted a rosy picture for the president of Arab states blossoming with democracy when they really knew this could not be accomplished so easily; they may have cynically suspected that it was far more likely that the Middle East would fall into chaos and end up back in its pre-Ottoman Empire state, Balkanized into a tapestry of rival fiefs -- based on tribal and ethnic identities, with no central government -- so busy fighting each other that they would be no threat to us, or Israel.
The administration is worried now about Jordan and Saudi Arabia in the face of roiling radicalism.
Some veterans of Bush 41 think that the neocons packaged their "inverted Trotskyism," as the writer John Judis dubbed their rabid desire to export their "idealistic concept of internationalism," so that it appealed to Bush 43's born-again sense of divine mission and to the desire of Mr. Bush, Rummy and Mr. Cheney to achieve immortality by transforming the Middle East and the military.
These realpolitik veterans of Bush 41 say that Bush pere, an old-school internationalist who ceaselessly tried to charm allies as U.N. ambassador and in the White House, "agonized" over the bullying approach his son's administration used at the U.N. and around the globe.
Some of the father's old circle are thinking about forming a Republican group that would speak out against the neocons. "What's happening in Iraq is puzzling," said one Bush 41 official. "The president ran on no-nation-building. Now we're in this drifting, aimless empire that is not helping the road map to peace."
W. has always presented himself as the heir of Reagan, and dissed his father's presidency, using it as a template of what not to do.
But as he tries to dig himself out tonight, he may wish he had emulated the old man, at least when it comes to slicing the deficit and playing nice with the allies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMIES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); DANCE (53%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; United States Economy; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (78%); DAVE OBEY (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Maureen Dowd; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



178 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: THE MIDEAST TURMOIL: THE MILITANTS; 
Hamas Placed On Terror List By Europeans

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: ROME, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
European Union foreign ministers said today that the union would officially declare all wings of the militant Palestinian group Hamas a terrorist organization and freeze its assets.
 That decision, reached at a meeting of the ministers in the northern Italian town of Riva del Garda, further isolated Hamas at a volatile juncture in the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. 
 It followed a similar decision by the United States last month, and it was prompted by a suicide bombing in Jerusalem on Aug. 19 that killed 22 people. Hamas claimed responsibility for the bombing. 
"A consensus has been found to decide to include Hamas on the list of terrorist organizations," said the French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, as the ministers concluded a two-day meeting.
France dropped its earlier objections to such a move, which it feared might harm any peace effort between Israelis and Palestinians and deprive Palestinians of important aid and social services.
The formalization and details of the decision, including which assets would be frozen and how, were to be worked out by union officials in Brussels next week.
Jack Straw, the British foreign minister, said that "there was complete agreement" among the ministers about the step they took today. "There was no conceivable justification," Mr. Straw said, referring to the suicide bombing.
The union had previously pronounced the military wing of Hamas a terrorist organization, but it had not done so in regard to the political wing and fund-raising charities and social welfare groups affiliated with Hamas. Today's decision would presumably apply to all of those wings.
Mr. Straw told reporters that there was overwhelming evidence that the political and military wings of Hamas represented one organization.
A Hamas official denounced today's development as unjust, suggesting that the union should consider the Israeli military's recent attacks on Hamas members, several fatal, to be terrorist acts.
"We say to the Europeans you must be just and place the Zionist enemy on the top of the global terrorist group list," the official, Ismail Haniya, told Al Jazeera television.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the Hamas spiritual leader, was wounded in an Israeli airstrike yesterday. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); HAMAS (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); FUNDRAISING (64%) Terrorism; Assets, Frozen; Palestinians; Bombs and Explosives

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%) European Union; Hamas (Palestinian Group)

PERSON: JACK STRAW (78%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%) Frank Bruni

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) ISRAEL (96%); EUROPE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



179 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Democrats Split on Pushing The Personal or the Political

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
John Edwards, a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, cannot pass a crowd these days without talking about his father the millworker or growing up in rural North Carolina. For Richard A. Gephardt, the campaign stories are about his father the milk truck driver and his son's successful battle with prostate cancer.
 But spend a day with Howard Dean and it is almost as if his life began the day he stepped behind the governor's desk in Vermont 12 years ago. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman is far more animated talking about the intricacies of trade policy than in sharing stories about growing up in Stamford, Conn. 
 A striking stylistic divide has emerged among the Democratic candidates as they struggle to determine the extent to which they can -- or should -- build candidacies on often intimate details of their lives, in an era that celebrates the public airing of the most personal of tales. 
Their responses -- from the intense intimacy of Mr. Gephardt to the rigorous avoidance of personal biography that has characterized Dr. Dean's candidacy -- reflect fundamentally different calculations by the candidates about what voters are looking for in this election.
But they also illustrate disagreements among the candidates over what is appropriate to talk about in the context of a political campaign, and the complexity of divulging intimate details that might enhance their standing without appearing to exploit personal tragedy for political gain. That perception dogged Vice President Al Gore when he ran for president in 2000, a cautionary lesson for many Democrats this time.
Some Democrats said that even before Bill Clinton changed the way campaigns were conducted by disclosing that his stepfather had abused his mother, the first task of any campaign was to introduce the life of a candidate to voters. From this point of view, voters assess candidates based on who they are and how they have lived, before they consider their political views.
"It gives people a reason to believe that when I say I'm going to do X, Y and Z, that I'm really committed to it," Mr. Edwards, a senator from North Carolina, said in an interview in Iowa last month. "What people have to see is how sincere and authentic you are -- and I think your personal background is directly relevant to that."
But other Democrats argue that the appetite for homey anecdotes might prove limited in an election taking place against a backdrop of threats from abroad and a weak economy at home. And some suggested that voters might be recoiling from an excess of personal information that marked Mr. Clinton's years in Washington, and are looking for less confessional candidacies, which may account for some of the early success of Dr. Dean, who campaigned here today.
"Howard's life is an open book, but frankly he thinks what people are more interested in is how he's going to improve their lives, rather than where he grew up and where he went to school," Steve McMahon, a senior adviser to Dr. Dean, said. "He thinks it's much more relevant and important to people to understand what he thinks the president is doing wrong for the country. Not so much, 'I grew up here, I grew up there, my parents were this, my parents are that.' "
Robert Schmuhl, a professor of American studies at the University of Notre Dame, said the nomination contest thus far, as reflected by Dr. Dean's success and the difficulties experienced by Mr. Edwards and Mr. Gephardt, signaled that the campaign of personal disclosure has been eclipsed by hard-edged appeals based on partisanship and issues.
"The personal and biographical might not be as critical as it once was," Mr. Schmuhl said. "The red-meat statements are much more compelling than the biography."
"There are a whole lot of people," he said, "who came out of the Clinton imbroglio and said: 'There are certain areas where you crossed a line, and don't cross it now. And give me substance.' " 
Democrats said these divisions that have emerged reflect, at least in part, long-observed variations in cultural sensibilities in different parts of the nation. Candidates from the North -- Mr. Dean, Mr. Lieberman of Connecticut and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts -- are more reserved and less likely to dwell on the intimate details of growing up or personal tragedies than the candidates from the South and Midwest. Those candidates include Mr. Edwards, Mr. Gephardt of Missouri, and Senator Bob Graham of Florida.
And there are elements of economic class at play. Candidates from working-class backgrounds are much more likely to promote their life stories than those who grew up wealthy. Accordingly, Mr. Gephardt and Mr. Edwards have woven stories of their modest upbringings into their campaign speeches; revealingly, there is a 30-year gap in Mr. Edwards' story, which stops about the moment he becomes a wealthy trial lawyer, living in the Georgetown section of Washington.
By contrast, growing up as the son of a stockbroker on Park Avenue and spending the summer on Long Island -- as Dr. Dean did -- is not exactly the stuff of the compelling presidential biography. Perpetuating a widely circulated myth, a senior adviser to a Dean rival sent an e-mail message saying, "You do know that he is the Dean of Dean Witter, don't you?" He is not.
After Mr. Gephardt ran for president in 1988, some Democrats said he had failed because he ran a soulless campaign based only on his experience in Congress, making it difficult for voters to identify with him.
These days, Mr. Gephardt's appearances feel almost like a confessional. He talks, often in detail, about his son's fight with cancer, about how one daughter is a lesbian, and about the recent death of his mother.
"Your personal experience is what shapes your views and your character and your values, and I think he's done a very good job in using that personal experience in communicating voting," his campaign chief of staff, Steve Elmendorf, said.
Aides to rival candidates suggest that Mr. Gephardt, more than anyone else in the race, risks the problem Mr. Gore encountered of crossing the line between recounting and exploiting. But there is no evidence that that has happened so far. 
That said, Mr. Gephardt is not the only person running for president who has endured personal tragedy, but he stands apart in his willingness to share. Dr. Dean rarely talks about his brother, who was killed while traveling in Laos in 1974. 
And Mr. Edwards, for all his reliance on his biography, will not talk about the death of his teenage son seven years ago.
When Mr. Edwards was being trailed by an ABC News crew doing a profile on him for "This Week With George Stephanopoulos," a New Hampshire voter asked if his son's death had "altered or reinforced your political views."
"I appreciate you asking -- it's a perfectly fair and reasonable question," Mr. Edwards said. "I would respectfully decline to answer. I think that's personal to me and personal to my family."
Mr. Kerry invariably mentions his Vietnam service; he talks less regularly about growing up as the son of a foreign service officer.
In an interview, Mr. Kerry suggested that his experience in Vietnam was more relevant to voters than the circumstances of his upbringing. "I don't think that's why people elect you," he said. Vietnam, he said, "is part of who I am.
"I mean, Edwards talks about being the son of a millworker, Lieberman talks about whatever, and Gephardt talks about his father," Mr. Kerry said. "I talk about my life."
At the other end of the spectrum, Dr. Dean defines himself solely by what he stands for, and not by who he is. Lengthy discussions of health insurance are never leavened with anecdotes from his years practicing medicine. The sense of Dr. Dean as a candidate without a life outside the spotlight is reinforced by the nearly complete absence from the campaign trail -- either in person or as a mention -- of Dr. Dean's wife. (Her name is Judith Steinberg, and she is also a doctor.) 
At one point, asked what he would tell Ms. Steinberg about a remarkable four-day cross-country campaign swing last month, Dr. Dean demurred, telling reporters they might not even discuss it.
"Does your wife know you're running for president?" a reporter asked him archly. Dr. Dean could not help but laugh.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard A. Gephardt, far left, has been talking about his family on the campaign trail, often in great detail. Howard Dean, with Mr. Gephardt, and Joseph I. Lieberman are less likely to discuss personal matters. (Photographs by Associated Press); John Edwards, left, weaves stories of his modest upbringing into his standard campaign speeches. John Kerry, pictured with a fellow veteran, invariably mentions his Vietnam War service, which he calls "part of who I am." (Photo by Getty Images); (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); PROSTATE CANCER (57%); PROSTATE DISEASE (57%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Biographical Information; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (91%); JOE LIEBERMAN (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%) Adam Nagourney; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt; Howard Dean; Joseph I (Sen) Lieberman; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003 



180 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Medicine for AIDS 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Africans Outdo U.S. Patients in Following AIDS Therapy" (front page, Sept. 3):
 High compliance with the strict antiretroviral drug regimen by AIDS patients in African countries and the announcement by the World Trade Organization last month that it would alter its rules to give poor nations more access to inexpensively produced generic drugs are good news for poor AIDS patients in all developing countries. 
 But manufacturers of generic AIDS drug in countries like India and public health organizations like Oxfam and Doctors Without Borders are skeptical about the introduction of new constraints by the W.T.O.
One restraint requires the suppliers of generic medicines to make distinct changes in the shape, color and packaging of the drugs. This is ostensibly required to prevent the diversion of the generic drug back into wealthy markets in the West. But it would seriously raise the production costs and cut into the manufacturers' already small margin.

MONI NAG
New York, Sept. 3, 2003

The writer is an adjunct professor of anthropology, Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (92%); GENERIC DRUGS (91%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Moni Nag

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (78%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



181 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Growing concern about fraud is pushing the online world into action. The task looms large, though.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
CONSUMERS are losing trust in the Internet, and online companies are taking note. 
 The Information Technology Association of America, a trade group, said last week that it would help create the Coalition on Online Identity Theft, composed of Internet retailers and security companies allied against what has become a significant problem both online and off. Word of the group's formation came eight weeks after the announcement of another industry association, the Merchant Risk Council, which was formed to combat online credit card fraud. 
 Both groups arise amid a growing sense of uneasiness among online consumers, perhaps best captured in a report in late July from the technology consultant Forrester Research, which concluded that consumers had become steadily less confident in online security. 
In a survey of about 39,000 Internet users, Forrester found that nearly a third of online shoppers polled were pessimistic about the security of Internet technology -- the highest mark that pessimism gauge has reached since Forrester started tracking the statistic in 1998. "As more stories about online fraud continue to come up, this trend will become more pronounced," said Christopher M. Kelley, a Forrester analyst. "Will it stop e-commerce dead in its tracks? No. But it could affect its potential." 
Online identity theft occurs when consumers' personal information is stolen and used to open fraudulent bank or credit card accounts, among other things. Identity thieves, for instance, have repeatedly made a target of eBay customers over the last two years by sending e-mail messages directing them to a site that is identified as being run by eBay, but is in fact operated by identity thieves. There, visitors are prompted to type in personal and financial information. Such scams continue, an eBay spokesman, Kevin Pursglove, said.
Internet companies are stepping up efforts to fight back, even as more reports of credit card fraud grab headlines. Last Wednesday, the day after the announcement of the Coalition on Online Identity Theft, the Federal Trade Commission released a survey indicating that 3.3 million Americans were victims of identity theft in the last year alone. At a news conference, Howard Beales, director of the commission's consumer protection bureau, said the cases had cost businesses a total of $32.9 billion and consumers $3.8 billion. 
The new online coalition includes companies like Amazon, eBay, Microsoft and Visa U.S.A., which, together, conduct millions of online transactions each year. Harris N. Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America, said the new coalition was set up because "several of these companies talked to me about the fact that there's a real problem here." 
"Consumer confidence was beginning to be eroded," Mr. Miller said, "and it was hurting their brand names terribly." 
One coalition goal is to help educate consumers about ways to combat online identity theft. The group also intends to serve as a forum for discussions among technology providers, about new defenses against identity theft. And it plans to pass on leads to law enforcement agencies and lobby for greater government support in pursuing identity thieves. 
"Everyone's driven to do something quickly," Mr. Miller said. "We want to see things happen that consumers can relate to." 
The new group will pull together and speed up existing ad hoc efforts within the industry, said Mr. Pursglove, who added that his company had already been working with several companies in the coalition to fight identity scams.
"We're certainly happy to see a more formal structure for this," Mr. Pursglove said, adding that such a structure could help speed resolutions for companies, consumers and law enforcement agencies alike. By compiling complaints about online identity theft circles, he said, coalition members are more likely to get the attention of government investigators. 
The group's members also say they intend to put money and technology behind the effort. "We'll be drawing on all our resources," said Frank Torres, the director of consumer affairs at Microsoft and the company's representative in the coalition. 
Of course, information sharing can be tricky when it involves competitors. And rivalries will not necessarily be checked at the door. Visa, for instance, is the only payment provider in the group so far, and it has gone to great lengths publicly to hold itself out as an online privacy stalwart, with technologies and programs meant to show consumers that buying online with a Visa card is safer than doing so with other credit cards or payment mechanisms. 
So is Visa likely to share its technological secrets with competing credit card organizations or other payment providers? "That's proprietary information," a Visa U.S.A. spokeswoman, Rhonda Bentz, said. 
An earlier, similarly conceived industrywide effort, the Merchant Fraud Squad, was formed in 2000 to counter credit card fraud, and it grew to more than 5,000 members -- mostly small merchants. But the group lost momentum as the finances of many of its members soured, said Tom Sullivan, director of e-commerce risk at the online travel agent Expedia, who was a founding board member of Fraud Squad. 
In 2001, Mr. Sullivan helped start another antifraud venture, called the Internet Fraud Round Table, composed of about 60 large e-commerce companies. In July, it and the Fraud Squad announced their merger into the Merchant Risk Council. 
In May, before the merger, members helped steer federal law enforcement agencies toward credit card thieves. That effort, called Operation E-Con by federal agents, resulted in the indictment, and in some cases conviction, of more than 130 people on a variety of criminal charges. 
Subsequently, Mr. Sullivan said, Expedia has relied on members of the Merchant Risk Council to help in the investigation of several of the largest fraud rings it has encountered. "It's absolutely made a difference for us," he said. 
Analysts have generally applauded the creation of the risk council and the Identity Theft Coalition, but note that both groups have a considerable challenge in restoring the faith of consumers in the medium. 
"These are very difficult problems they're trying to solve," said Robert Leathern, an analyst with Nielsen NetRatings, the online research firm.
Given the stakes, though, Internet companies may have little choice but to act. Mr. Leathern said it was difficult to determine how much money retailers had forgone because of consumer wariness of buying online. "But it's clearly in the billions," he said. "It's a big number."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Howard Beales, director of the Federal Trade Commission's consumer protection bureau, said identity theft had cost businesses $32.9 billion and consumers $3.8 billion last year. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IDENTITY THEFT (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); CONSUMER LAW (79%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TRENDS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTER SECURITY; IDENTITY FRAUD; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); VISA INC (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (84%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%) VISA INTERNATIONAL INC; AMAZON.COM INC; EBAY INC; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); V (NYSE) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



182 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
AOL Europe Turnaround Helps Offset Parent's Woes
In a role reversal, AOL Europe is emerging as an upbeat counterpoint to AOL's sagging business in the United States.
 In the last two and a half years, AOL Europe has more than doubled its subscribers, to 6.2 million, and nearly doubled its revenue, to about $1.4 billion. Michael Lynton, the chief executive of AOL Europe, above, said his division had turned around in part by tailoring its marketing and content to local cultures. Page C11. 

Intel to Add to Itanium Chip Line
Intel plans to announce today two new versions of its Itanium 2 processor. The Itanium chip has been slow to gain widespread use, in part because of an earlier lack of software applications but also because of the high cost of machines that use it. With the new versions, Intel has managed to bring the cost down. C2.

Employers Shift to Older Workers
Without fanfare, older workers -- the ones seemingly left behind by the dot.com boom -- are turning out to be the only group thriving in the jobless recovery. A higher percentage of those 55 to 64 years old hold jobs today than when the economy plunged into hard times in early 2001. Their success has shifted the composition of the work force: older people now account for 12 percent of the nation's workers, up from 10.2 percent in 2000. Section A.

Microsoft in $23 Million Settlement
Microsoft has agreed to pay $23.3 million to Be Inc. to settle an antitrust lawsuit that asserted that Microsoft had negotiated deals with computer makers that cut out Be Inc.'s competing operating system. C5.

New Efforts to Fight Identity Theft
Amid a growing sense of uneasiness among online consumers, a technology trade group said it would help create the Coalition on Online Identity Theft, made up of Internet retailers and security companies. Eight weeks earlier, the Merchant Risk Council formed to combat online credit card fraud. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C9.

Kodak Switches to Business Focus
For more than a year, Kodak has been changing from a consumer company with a handful of products it sells to business to one whose primary customers will soon be other companies. It is a risky metamorphosis, one in which the very Kodak brand may risk losing its cachet. Market Place. C4.

Business School Dean to Resign
Meyer Feldberg, left, who is beginning his 15th year as dean of Columbia Business School, plans to step down at the end of the academic year. He told the school's board of his decision last Wednesday and will leave his successor an institution that is in vastly better condition than he found it -- one that is now considered a top-tier business school. C2.

Janus Promises to Make Restitution
The Janus Capital Group, a mutual fund manager, plans to make restitution to shareholders who lost money as part of an investigation into market-timing trade abuses. C10.

Automakers and Labor Negotiate
The Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler, which has told its union it may need additional job cuts to stem losses, and General Motors resumed labor negotiations on a new contract. Ford Motor took the day off. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,503.34 up 87.52Nasdaq composite -- 1,858.24 up 47.7910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.35% down 0.10The euro -- $1.1109 up 0.0125The dollar -- 116.83 yen up 0.09 Graph "TODAY" shows the amount of consumer borrowing from Jan.-June 2003.July figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$5.0 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); IDENTITY THEFT (86%); LITIGATION (86%); INTERNET RETAILING (86%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); INTERNET CRIME (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); RETAILERS (62%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (62%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (65%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); JNS (NYSE) (65%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (65%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



183 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: An Indonesian Leader Wins Attention for Her Clean Politics 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: KEBUMEN, Indonesia 

 BODY:
On special occasions in this rural Javanese town, women cover their heads, wear long flowing clothes and, according to Muslim custom, sit separately from the men in a place where they are barely seen and certainly not heard.
 But no one seemed to mind when the district leader, Rustriningsih, addressed an audience not long ago (the men in front, the women off to the side) in a green uniform that stopped at the knees and with her glossy black hair on show for everyone to see. Nor did they mind when she earnestly lectured them about the responsibilities of living in a new democracy. 
 Ms. Rustriningsih broke all the norms here three years ago when she was elected Bupati, a title that roughly corresponds to that of regional governor. 
Now she is one of only 5 women among more than 400 Bupati in Indonesia, and people are taking notice of her not just because of her sex or her youth. (She is 36.) 
Ms. Rustriningsih has carved out a reputation for being rigorously honest, a rare attribute in a government official in a country that regularly scores in international surveys as among the world's most corrupt. 
Under new decentralization laws in Indonesia, local leaders have gained much power. They can decide how to spend money for schools and roads and hospitals -- which, during the nearly three-decade authoritarian Suharto era that ended in 1998, was the exclusive domain of the central government. 
Because Ms. Rustriningsih has done such audacious things as appoint school principals on the basis of merit rather than bribery, she has been invited by the United States Agency for International Development to seminars to explain her methods. The Australian ambassador, eager to find ways to give assistance to projects that are not riddled with graft, invited her to a cocktail party. The World Bank has held her up as the paradigm of a new, clean Indonesia. 
Ms. Rustriningsih is a good politician, so she is grateful for all the fuss. But at heart, she said, what she has done is based on common sense.
The elementary schools in her district were in such bad condition when she took office that 16 children who had been taking an exam were killed when the roof of their classroom collapsed.
She began a program to repair schools, pledging to provide a portion of the money to the village leader if the local parent association matched the grant. "They loved that idea because usually the money goes to the contractor," she said. "In this way, the local people are participating, they keep the costs down and they monitor -- because they want to know where the money is going." 
She started a similar program with road repairs. She gave asphalt to the local village leader on the understanding that the village would provide the rocks and sand. "Now I'm running out of asphalt," she said. 
Ms. Rustriningsih's flair for government comes from listening to her father's political discussions at home and from an intuition at an early age that she wanted to be a leader. "My father liked biographies of leaders," she said. "I read about the American leaders from Woodrow Wilson to Richard Nixon."
She learned a lot about politics at the movies. "My father had a movie theater, so every day I could watch and I didn't have to pay," she said. "I learned from the movies that if the enemy is going to make a move, you have to know an alternative move." 
In the mid-1990's, when sentiment against Suharto was increasing, Ms. Rustriningsih was applying some of those strategic lessons from the movies. By then she was a senior official in the opposition Indonesian Democratic Party and had to find a way to skirt the government's ban on meetings of more than 10 people. At one point, she organized a fake wedding with about 1,000 guests -- she found friends who were willing to be bride and groom. That allowed Megawati Sukarnoputri, the party leader then and now the president, to address a crowd.
A year later, Suharto resigned, and there was violence in many cities, particularly against ethnic Chinese. Ms. Rustriningsih was determined, she said, that violence would not engulf her hometown. She organized shelters for Chinese residents at local Democratic Party posts, and ordered party supporters to plaster the town with posters of Mrs. Megawati and the party's flag.
"We knew that if the provocateurs came and saw so much support for our party, they would be too afraid to attack," she said.
In the first presidential election after the fall of Suharto, her political party did exceedingly well in her home district. 
By that time, Mrs. Megawati was also the most popular leader in Indonesia, and she invited Ms. Rustriningsih to join the national Parliament. But Ms. Rustriningsih felt she could be more effective locally. 
She is a politician as well as a public servant, and she will be up for re-election in 2005. Her heroine in politics, President Megawati, has faded in popularity, in part because of perceptions that she has allowed a corrupt national government to flourish.
But Ms. Rustriningsih has increased her own popularity with a radio call-in show, "Good Morning Bupati," and she is soon to have a television show as well.
Ms. Rustriningsih can see the need for a little distancing. "I'm on my own," she said of her relationship with Mrs. Megawati. "Now I depend on the people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rustriningsih, one of Indonesia's regional governors, visiting an experimental farm near Kebumen. (Photo by Kemal Jufri/Imaji, for The New York Times) Map of Indonesia highlighting Kebumen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); ETHICS (72%); BRIBERY (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (70%); CHILDREN (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (65%); MATCHING GIFTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (60%); GOVERNORS (54%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; RUSTRININGSIH (INDONESIAN OFFICIAL) 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) INDONESIA

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



184 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Rights Groups Criticize Egypt's Change in Court System 

BYLINE:  By ABEER ALLAM 

DATELINE: CAIRO, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Three months after the Egyptian government eliminated one emergency court, saying it wanted to expand civil liberties, human rights groups have condemned the change as a showy move that has failed to improve access to fair trials.
 The law establishing the emergency courts has been regularly renewed since it was imposed in 1981 despite criticism from local and international rights groups and the United States government, which have said the law has been used to restrict basic rights. 
 In June, the government modified the law to eliminate one court that had heard cases against men accused of homosexual activities and that had convicted a prominent Egyptian-American rights advocate, Saad Eddin Ibrahim, on charges that he defamed Egypt in connection with his work on voter rights. The rulings of this High State Security Court were open to appeal, and Mr. Ibrahim, with vocal international support, was ultimately acquitted. 
When Egypt's Parliament -- at the urging of Gamal Mubarak, President Hosni Mubarak's son and a leader in the governing National Democratic Party -- eliminated that security court, it left intact a separate emergency court established to hear the cases the state considers most important. The decisions of this separate court, the Emergency State Security Court, can be reversed only by presidential pardon.
In a separate action, the government also expanded the power of its regular courts. Prosecutors in regular cases are now authorized to detain suspects without charge for six months, instead of four days, and a new communication law authorizes wiretaps with less judicial scrutiny.
As criticism is mounting from rights groups that cite five people they say are being prosecuted for political activity, the government firmly defends the steps it takes to detain suspects. "These detentions are never without cause," said Gen. Mahmoud al-Fishawi, a spokesman for the Ministry of Interior. "The minister himself studies each detention order very thoroughly."
The governing party said elimination of the one emergency court would deepen democracy's roots in Egypt and would guarantee that executives would not abuse citizens. 
A spokesman for the American Embassy in Cairo said, "We do not have anything to say about these specific arrests, but we consider cancellation of the court a positive step."
Rights advocates here are critical. One advocate said the new laws would give the government the power to suppress dissent even if the latest emergency law expires in three more years.
"By 2006, the government won't need to renew the emergency law because its articles are being written into the civil codes," said the advocate, Hossam Bahgat, director of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights. "The government has decided to keep an arsenal of oppressive, restrictive laws at their fingertips to be utilized whenever it wants."
The executive director of another group, the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights, Hafiz Abu Saada, said of the government, "They want democratic reforms that guarantee the same regime will remain in power."
Hisham Kassem, who has worked with the human rights group and is publisher of Cairo Times, Egypt's sole independent English weekly, said, "The government feels pressured to reform, so they are introducing a series of cosmetic reforms."
Advocates cite the example of Ashraf Ibrahim, a leftist who has rallied opposition to the war in Iraq, criticized Mr. Mubarak's economic policy and called for cancellation of the emergency law. He was detained without charge for four months starting in April. After an 11-day hunger strike, he was charged with "weakening the prestige of the state by disseminating false information regarding human rights violations to foreign human rights organizations."
He is accused of establishing a group to topple Mr. Mubarak's government in favor of "one based on extreme Communism." Four colleagues were also charged in absentia. Mr. Ibrahim denied the charges.
The case was referred to the Emergency Supreme State Security Court. If convicted, Mr. Ibrahim could face a life sentence. Security forces confiscated his computer and cited visits to Web sites like those of Human Rights Watch and the satellite channel Al Jazeera as evidence against him.
Human rights advocates say the charges are an effort to silence political criticism. At a rally against the Iraq war, the five criticized Mr. Mubarak's policies and the increasing political influence of his son, Gamal. State security had stipulated that the antiwar protests would not address domestic issues.
"Those people pose no threat to the regime," said Mr. Saada, the rights worker. "But this is a warning to leftists and others: the emergency laws will be used mercilessly to squash whoever dares to criticize the domestic situation or mobilize protests."
The deputy prosecutor general, Justice Abdel Magid Muhammad, refused to comment on the case, saying, "We agreed not to talk to the press."
Human Rights Watch wrote to Mr. Mubarak on Aug. 28 condemning the decision to charge Mr. Ibrahim and his co-defendants. 
"These charges, and the provisions under which they are pressed, clearly violate the basic rights of these individuals and endanger fundamental freedoms," wrote Joe Stork of the group's Middle East and North Africa Division. 
According to the 2002 report of the Mr. Saada's group, the Interior Ministry ignored 48 court orders to release political prisoners. That report also found that scores of university students and 20,017 criminal suspects had been detained without charge under the emergency law. 
Warda Mahmoud, the 30-year-old wife of Ashraf Ibrahim, said he had almost no space of his own and "shares his cell with murderers, drug dealers and drug addicts."
Several petitions have pressed the Egyptian government to revoke the emergency laws, most recently one filed by the Arab Program for Human Rights Activists, which reports on difficulties facing human rights advocates in the Arab world.
Mr. Saada warned against closing all means of dissent. "The economy is deteriorating, people are frustrated and angry, and there is no political outlet for this anger," he said. "The only organized alternative is the Islamic militant groups."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saad Eddin Ibrahim was acquitted of charges of defaming Egypt. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LIBEL & SLANDER (74%); ACQUITTAL (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); PARDONS (70%); WIRETAPPING (50%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (59%) HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (73%) ALLAM, ABEER; IBRAHIM, SAAD EDDIN; IBRAHIM, ASHRAF; MUBARAK,HOSNI (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



185 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: City Is Told to Abandon Its 'Doomed' Tactics of Encouraging Growth 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
Arguing that the industries upon which New York City has depended for its economic well-being have been losing ground and are unlikely to generate many new jobs in future, a new study suggests that New York's longtime approach to economic development is obsolete and must be reconceived.
 The study, financed by the Rockefeller Foundation and written by a nonprofit group called the Center for an Urban Future, says the city should abandon the "doomed strategy" of favoring a few industries like finance -- an approach the study says has left the city increasingly vulnerable to economic shifts. 
 City resources should go instead to improving the climate for small businesses and entrepreneurs, tapping the immigrant population as well as academic and research institutions, and improving basic services so the middle class will not leave the city, according to the study, to be released today.
"Start small," the report urges. Large firms are decentralizing operations and adding new jobs elsewhere, and New York's future growth will depend on "whether it can restore its entrepreneurial vitality and create a better environment for smaller firms to grow and prosper." 
The recommendations run counter to the city's practice of using tax abatements and real estate development subsidies to keep big companies in New York. That tactic became common in the 1990's as competition among the city, its suburbs and other places intensified.
Several economists and others who have seen the report said the recommendations were sound. Some said they also seemed consistent with some recent moves by the administration of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg toward delineating a clear strategy and diversifying the economy.
"The city has never had a clear economic development strategy," said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business group. "The city's strategy has been real-estate-driven and has been reactive to the threat of corporate move-outs and job losses rather than job creation."
David Hochman, a consultant with the Technology Partnership Practice at the Battelle Memorial Institute, who worked on a similar report for the city in 2000, said: "It's really only in times of downturn that people get creative, get thoughtful about what needs to be done next. This would be a great road map to start with."
The deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, Daniel L. Doctoroff, said the administration was already doing many things recommended in the new study. For example, it has taken steps to improve the business climate and cultivate business districts far beyond Midtown Manhattan through projects in such places as downtown Flushing, Long Island City, Harlem and the Hub area of the Bronx.
In addition, he said, the administration has overhauled what is now called the Department of Small Business Services and has taken steps to give immigrant- and minority-owned businesses better access to contracts. The city is opening small-business satellite centers in each borough, offering advice on such things as financing, negotiating the bureaucracy and other aspects of starting and running businesses. 
"We've essentially stopped" the longtime practice of favoring a relatively small number of large companies with tax abatements and subsidies, Mr. Doctoroff said. "We have basically ended the era of corporate welfare, basically paying people to stay." 
 The study, based on an analysis of census and economic data and interviews with business leaders, developers, ethnographers, government officials and others, was conducted over the past year by the center, a nonprofit policy institute that examines economic and work force development issues in New York.
Jonathan Bowles, the group's research director and a writer of the report, said the center was told to take "a real hard look at the city's economy in the post-9/11 world." The aim was to explore in a comprehensive way the long-term economic, demographic and political challenges facing New York.
Of the city's attitude in the past, Mr. Bowles said: "There was sort of an arrogant policy that we don't need to look at the future because we've already got Wall Street and we're the media capital. What more do we need? As long as we hang on to what we've got, the rest will fall into place."
The group found that the finance, insurance and real estate industries, which accounted for one in six of all city jobs in 2000, were rapidly losing jobs and market share to other places. New York City accounted for 36 percent of all securities industry jobs in the country in 1987; its share has since dropped to 23 percent, the report says.
Other important industries, including professional and business services and technology, have trailed the country and the region in job creation. The city accounted for 60 percent of the region's jobs in professional and business services in 1970; by 2000, that was down to 45 percent. 
As large firms everywhere have decentralized, cities like Los Angeles have benefited by the rise of small, home-grown businesses, the study says. But New York "has become one of the worst environments for entrepreneurs and growing firms," the report says, citing rankings by groups like the National Commission on Entrepreneurship and declines in venture capital investments.
One big problem for growing businesses is high real estate costs, which the study traces in part to the city's practice of subsidizing the real estate costs of large employers. The report says the practice has distorted the "real estate market in ways that actually inhibit the development of new businesses and the retention of lower-margin industries."
In addition, the study says: "Businesses in New York also face a daunting regulatory environment in which firms are required to get licenses and permits from as many as a half-dozen agencies, most of which are understaffed and few of which coordinate with each other. It's no wonder that a cottage industry of fixers and go-betweens has developed in the city."
The study recommends that the city work harder to help growing businesses thrive, in part by addressing "the fundamental issues hampering business growth in the city, such as permitting, business taxes and policies that spur exorbitant real estate speculation."
The city should also do more to encourage the growth of immigrant and minority-owned businesses, the study says, perhaps by following the example of cities like Los Angeles and Houston. According to the report, those two cities rebuilt their economies in recent decades in part by diversifying, reducing regulatory hurdles and helping immigrant-run businesses to develop.
In addition, the city should extend its economic development efforts beyond large-scale commercial projects in Manhattan to include neighborhoods in all five boroughs, the study recommends. It notes that the Bloomberg administration is already working to develop viable and more affordable business districts in Downtown Brooklyn, as well as Long Island City and Flushing, Queens.
Finally, the report suggests that the city support policies that will help retain middle-class residents. It should follow through with plans to increase the housing stock. And it should use scarce city resources to maintain and improve basic services like law enforcement, sanitation, public transit, education, parks and the infrastructure.
The report states, "This vision should begin with the premise that blindly following the post-1950's strategy of ever-intensifying real estate speculation, over-concentration on selected sectors and 'Capital of the World' rhetoric will erode the city's overall competitiveness even further, strain the city's financial resources and widen the gap between rich and poor." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); REFUGEES (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); TAX LAW (66%) Immigration and Refugees; Colleges and Universities; Small Business; Area Planning and Renewal; Taxation

COMPANY: BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Center for an Urban Future

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Janny Scott; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



186 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 National Edition 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: The 12 Percent Problem 

 BODY:
One of the saddest statistics in the still eerily jobless recovery is that 1.3 million more Americans fell into poverty last year -- almost half of them children. Whatever else is on the national agenda, there should be no higher priority than directing already available help to these least among us. 
But the growth in the poverty roll to almost 35 million -- more than 12 percent of the population -- has been accompanied by an equally disturbing drop in those impoverished families who are eligible for limited welfare actually managing to obtain the aid. 
 After the end of the old welfare system was legislated, time-limited help for the needy was enacted, with more than three in four eligible families benefiting in 1996. But by 2000, only half the eligible families were receiving this aid, for reasons not fully plumbed as government officials continue to simplistically trumpet the drop in the welfare caseload. Clearly, more poor people are hurting more, particularly in the vanishing of employment opportunities that were promised as part of the temporary aid program. 
 As more families sink below the poverty line, joblessness among single, undereducated mothers is up to 18 percent; and families whose temporary welfare help ends are increasingly unlikely to find jobs in the current resistant economy, according to recent data analysis by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington think tank. Years ago, the nation chose to proclaim a "war" on poverty. Priorities shifted as progress was measured. The poor are still out there at the edge of the scope, the last in line for recovery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WELFARE (US) 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



187 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Better Eating, Through Home Ec? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Food for Thought (and for Credit)," by Jennifer Grossman (Op-Ed, Sept. 2):
 I am a 22-year-old male college graduate, and I currently live at home with my parents. 
Learning to cook for myself (which happened at home) and for my family brings with it a sense of pride that I have never felt while ordering at McDonald's. 
 Cooking provides a means of self-expression that is as healthy as the food I now eat. I also feel satisfaction in beating the system that spends billions on advertising to get me to eat outside the house.
Cooking together provides invaluable bonding time for my family. I second Ms. Grossman's plea to bring back home economics. My newfound passion for cooking has empowered me, and I have saved money and gained health as well.

DENNIS A. PRICE
Princeton, N.J., Sept. 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Education and Schools; Home Economics

PERSON: Dennis A Price; Jennifer Grossman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



188 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Older Workers Are Thriving Despite Recent Hard Times 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Without fanfare, older workers -- the ones seemingly left behind by the dot.com boom -- are turning out to be the only group thriving in the jobless recovery.
 Even as younger workers have lost ground, a higher percentage of those aged 55 to 64 hold jobs today than when the economy plunged into hard times in early 2001. Their success has shifted the composition of the work force: older people now make up 12 percent of the nation's workers, up from 10.2 percent in 2000. That was the year the dot-com boom, so favorable to the young, began to collapse. 
 As if to rub in the point, the raises given in America today go disproportionately to workers in their last decade before retirement. 
These older workers, particularly women, are enjoying an unusual late-in-life success -- as survivors of the disintegrating job security that began to spread through the work force early in their careers, undermining pensions and lifetime employment. Layoffs and retirement reduced their ranks in the recession in the early 1990's and its aftermath, but not this time.
"I am surprised by their resilience," said Robert M. Hutchens, an economist at Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations. So were a dozen other experts interviewed. Like the wider public, most had the impression that older workers were suffering. The data compiled by the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics now tells an unmistakably different story.
The reasons vary. Men who got new jobs after layoffs are trying to recoup lost pay in their final preretirement years. Or they never lost a job, but with pensions shrinking, they cannot afford to retire, even taking Social Security into account. Women play a big role. Many entered the work force in their 40's and still consider themselves in midcareer, or they have not saved enough to retire.
Many employers are holding onto older staff members until the economy strengthens and they hire again, among younger people.
Since March 2001, when the last recession began, the percentage of working people in the population of 55- to 64-year-olds has steadily risen, reaching a peak of 60 percent in the spring, or 16.4 million men and women, up from 58.1 percent and 14.5 million workers. While that gain appears to have tapered off this summer, the older workers were still the only age group to improve their lot in the recession and jobless recovery. 
Demographics play a role in these numbers. The oldest baby boomers are 57 and as they have entered the ranks of the nation's older workers over the last three years, the job holders among them have increased both the number and the percentage of those employed in the group as a whole. But even without counting the baby boomers -- counting only the 60- to 64-year-olds, for example -- the percentage at work has still held up better since March 2001 than for any other age group, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports.
Reflecting this success, the average weekly wage of the 55- to 64-year-olds, adjusted for inflation, reached $673 by the end of last year, up 4.5 percent from the $644 in 2000. That is a faster pace than the wage gains of any other age group, according to the Economic Policy Institute, which analyzed the bureau's wage data. Only the 25- to 34-year-olds, earning $590 in 2002, came close, increasing their average wage by 2.7 percent over the same period.
Union membership, more concentrated among older workers, may have played a role in lifting their wages. And good fortune helped. Wages and employment have risen in health care, for example, and this is a sector where 55- to 64-year-olds are disproportionately represented.
"The pure economist in me says that if the wage numbers are going in the same direction as the employment, then that is demand driven," said Harry Holzer, a labor economist at Georgetown University.
The demand among employers for older workers does seem to have risen, but other experts argue that supply also plays a role. More than in the past, older people seem determined to stay in the work force at least until retirement age.
And as the baby boomers age, employers have less of an alternative. That is because the youngest baby boomers are now 38 and behind them is the baby-bust generation. Those employers who are hiring have fewer choices among younger workers. And those who have stopped hiring until the economy improves "hope the older workers will hold on until the hiring resumes," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com.
Some of the 55- to 64-year-olds postponed retirement when their nest eggs were depleted in the stock market decline. Or they simply do not have enough savings to retire. In 2001, 53.4 percent of the men and women 55 to 64 who headed families had only their 401(k) savings and similar "defined contribution" plans to finance their retirement, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute.
That was up from 33.4 percent in 1992, when many more older workers -- 43.8 percent of all heads of families -- looked forward to company-financed defined-benefit pensions featuring guaranteed monthly amounts. A proliferation of early-retirement packages helped thin the ranks of workers before they entered the 55-to-64 age group. Rather than resort to layoffs, many companies sweetened their defined-benefit plans in the 1990's to get workers to retire early on full pensions.
Nynex, now part of Verizon, persuaded thousands of employees to retire early, including Kingsley H. Nelson of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He is 60 now and back in the work force.
Like many others in his age group, Mr. Nelson, an industrial engineer, joined Nynex in the 1960's, right out of Clarkson University, expecting to remain with the company until he retired. He left instead in 1997, at 54, for a combination of reasons. The full pension was a lure. His operation at Nynex, an interactive information system, was being phased out, and he faced transfer to a job in another department.
The early-retirement package gave him an out, and in the weeks before his departure, he searched for another job. In the booming late 1990's, he soon found one. The Volt Telecom Group, a construction and engineering company, offered to make him vice president for marketing and sales at a six-figure salary that was double his pay at Nynex.
"I am not the kind of person to sit home and do nothing," Mr. Nelson said. "I passionately love what I am doing, but make no mistake, I am doing it because I have to." The salary plus the pension allow Mr. Nelson and his wife, Lynn, to maintain their lifestyle and to whittle away at $250,000 in debt.
While Mr. Nelson chose re-employment, some others who left with early-retirement packages were brought back on consulting contracts by the companies that had pushed them out. "Older workers are disproportionately represented in the data on independent contractors," said Sara Rix, a senior policy adviser for AARP.
In manufacturing, seniority and union membership helped older blue-collar workers escape the relentless layoffs in that sector, which have accounted for most of the nation's job losses over the last 30 months. Older workers, as a result, now represent 12.2 percent of those employed in manufacturing, up from 11 percent, on average, in 2000.
"These older survivors have managed to close the gap in technology skill with younger workers," said Phyllis Eisen, a vice president of the National Association of Manufacturers.
Laws against age discrimination have protected older workers. So has government employment, where layoffs have been far fewer than in the private sector. As in manufacturing, the percentage of older workers in public employment has risen in recent years.
But women have been the heavy lifters, taking jobs or staying in the labor force as they have grown older. Without them, the rate of job growth as a percentage of the 27.5 million people in this country who are 55 to 64 would have been roughly zero since 2001. Men of similar age lost a little ground, although not as much as younger men.
The women were in their 20's in the late 1960's, when the women's movement came to life. They started to move into the work force 20 years later, after raising children or getting a divorce or both. As they turned 55 and as older women turned 65, leaving the 55-to-64 age group, the share holding jobs rose, by a percentage point or more almost every year since 1996. 
"The recession, if anything, is motivating them to recoup the time lost when they were out of the labor market earlier in their lives," said Heidi Hartmann, director of the Institute for Women's Policy Research.
Judith Bourgeois, who is 64, certainly needs the money. While her children were young, she earned a degree in American studies at Mount Holyoke College, not far from her home in Wilbraham, Mass. After completing college, she held sales jobs; got into career counseling; divorced her husband, a policeman, in 1993; and in 1998 she set up JCS Consulting, hiring herself out to run training classes and workshops for the employees of corporate clients.
The recession crimped that business and Ms. Bourgeois moved into the counseling of laid-off workers, contracting with three outplacement companies, which specialize in helping the former employees of corporate clients search for new jobs.
"I either go in and conduct workshops," Ms. Bourgeois said, "or I do one-on-one counseling."
With less than $100,000 in savings, $50,000 a year in income and a meager Social Security pension just ahead, she does not even think of retirement. Nor does she want to stop working.
"I have a lot of energy and a lot of ambition," she said, "and I almost think in terms of I have not done my best work yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kingsley H. Nelson, 60, of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., is back in the work force after an early retirement. (Photo by Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. A15) Chart: "Bucking the Trend"A greater share of the nation's 55- to 64-year-olds were employed last March than at the beginning of the recession in March 2001. This age group is alone in the trend toward a higher employment rate. Graph tracks share of population in each age group that has been working since 2001. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); AGING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); MEN (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%) LABOR; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; ORGANIZED LABOR; WOMEN; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



189 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2729 words

HEADLINE: TWO YEARS LATER: THE MONEY; 
Downtown Grants Found To Favor Investment Field

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT and JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
More than a third of the emergency grant money intended to help small businesses in Lower Manhattan survive after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack went to investment firms, financial traders and lawyers, a result that some New York legislators who helped secure money for the program say they never envisioned.
 Twenty-seven percent, or $144 million, of the $539 million World Trade Center Business Recovery Grant program went to traders who work on the floors of the financial district's stock and commodities exchanges, to brokerage firms and to investment banks, according to an analysis by The New York Times. An additional $53 million, or 10 percent of the total, went to law firms, some of which employ hundreds of attorneys and generate yearly revenues of tens of millions of dollars, and few of which faced dire threats to their survival. 
 Far smaller amounts went to restaurants, retailers and other small businesses, many of them dependent on the foot traffic that largely disappeared from Lower Manhattan after the attack. 
The inconsistencies in the grant program -- complained about by many but never before completely documented -- did not result from fraud. Rather, they were the outcome of regulations drafted quickly by New York State officials, based on laws that were hastily written in Washington -- all in an effort to quickly distribute badly needed money to suffering businesses. Those rules, for instance, defined small business very broadly, and they required little hard evidence of lost revenues from any business seeking compensation.
In writing the legislation, "we were thinking of restaurants and pizza places and all kinds of service establishments in the neighborhood," said United States Representative Jerrold Nadler, who was instrumental in the grant program legislation and whose congressional district includes the World Trade Center site.
"A lot of discretion over the details of the program was left to the governor and the agencies he set up," Mr. Nadler said. "And a lot of their decisions are hard to defend."
Undoubtedly, the grants helped many small businesses to stay open. Arthur Gregory, owner of the A&M Roadhouse, a restaurant and live-music establishment three blocks north of the trade center site, said the $33,726 he received "helped keep me open because the insurance companies were real bad, real slow."
The analysis by The Times examined 21,069 grant payments made to 14,350 companies. Information on the payments was produced by the Empire State Development Corporation, the state agency in charge of the grant payments, in response to a request made under New York State's Freedom of Information law and is the first public assessment of the grant program since its completion.
Two previous studies, by the United States General Accounting Office and the inspector general of the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, looked at the program before all of the applications had been processed. The Times analysis shows that the program produced what for many legislators amounted to several unintended consequences, and that nothing was done to refine the program once those consequences became obvious.
For example, commodities traders and brokers at the New York Mercantile Exchange, a few blocks from the World Trade Center site, received grants totaling $54 million, while the 669 small businesses that were in the trade center itself received $38 million. Unlike the businesses whose offices were obliterated, however, the Mercantile Exchange was operating again three days after the attack.
Officials at Empire State Development rejected any assertion that they should have stepped in when it became clear what kind of companies were being compensated by the program.
"With the economic conditions and physical conditions we were faced with downtown, and the need to get the money out, we had to make decisions quickly," said Kevin S. Corbett, chief operating officer at Empire State Development, which is controlled by Gov. George E. Pataki. "We had no template at all for this kind of challenge."
The analysis also documented additional and, for some, undesired disparities in the distribution of the hundreds of millions of dollars. Small downtown stores that are steps from one another and that suffered the same damage on Sept. 11 and similar declines in business afterward received grants of vastly different size.
It is extremely difficult, government officials and business owners themselves acknowledge, to determine precisely the ultimate impact of the differing grants.
Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, a business association, said it was hard to know how many companies stayed in business because they had received grants or went out of business despite having received aid. "But the vast majority of our members say the grants were helpful and made them able to get through the rough spots," he said.
Figures from city and state officials show that the number of businesses downtown has fallen by about 5 percent since Sept. 11, 2001, while the number of people employed there -- not counting those who worked at the World Trade Center itself -- has declined by about 14 percent.
Mr. Corbett of the development corporation praised the program. "We feel that the Business Recovery Grant program was highly successful, especially given the time frame and climate under which it was created," he said. "Like all programs, it is subject to retrospective scrutiny."

Differing Views
The Business Recovery Grant program was among the largest of a flurry of relief programs intended to help New York businesses and individuals most severely affected by the attack on the World Trade Center. It resulted from the efforts of Republicans and Democrats in New York's congressional delegation who were desperate to secure the $21 billion in promised federal aid.
But in the fall of 2001, differences emerged in how those representatives thought the aid should be structured. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, among others, wanted to set up an Office of World Trade Center Attack Claims to reimburse businesses and individuals in Lower Manhattan. 
But the White House budget director at the time, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., prevailed in dictating that much of the money be distributed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and its Community Development Block Grant program, which would give local authorities great flexibility in how to use federal dollars.
"Rather than create a new federal agency, we felt that the city and state would know best how to spend that money," said Representative James T. Walsh, the New York congressman who is a member of the Appropriations Committee and chairman of the subcommittee that oversees HUD.
Mr. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, both Republicans, supported that approach. But in the end, as the legislation was enacted, the grant program specified that the money be controlled by New York State.
Congress also required that within 45 days, state officials issue regulations for a program to reimburse businesses for economic losses related to 9/11.
"We had to get the money out as quickly as possible," Mr. Corbett said.
Empire State officials, dismissing alternative suggestions from Congress, decided on their own guidelines for compensating businesses. A company's grant would depend on three primary factors: how close the business was to ground zero; its size, based on its annual revenues; and its "economic losses" related to 9/11.
The agency did not require a company to document its losses. Instead, it had only to provide tax returns to certify its revenues in its fiscal year immediately before Sept. 11.
Empire State officials laid the responsibility for those decisions at the feet of HUD officials. "They signed off on the form that did not require documentation of economic losses," Mr. Corbett said. "We were trying to keep the administrative burden within reason."
Officials at HUD say such decisions were strictly up to Empire State Development. "As long as it is designed within the confines of the law, they can structure the program any way they want," said Jan C. Opper, a senior program officer at HUD who worked with Empire State.
Congress had required that at least $500 million should go to "individuals, nonprofits or small businesses" south of 14th Street in Manhattan. Separate grant programs were set up for large businesses. Senator Charles E. Schumer said the New York representatives were concerned that small businesses not go unnoticed.
"Big businesses know how to apply for these programs and how to get their money," he said. "If we didn't set aside something for small business, they were going to have a harder time."
But the legislation did not define small business. Empire State Development ruled that any company with fewer than 500 employees would be eligible for grants, with no restrictions as to annual revenues.
Representative Walsh said he thought the program was intended to help all businesses downtown. "We thought whoever was there, large businesses or small, or residents, should be able to access those funds," he said.
Others differed. "The small-business piece of the aid we introduced really was meant to go to the small-size, small-revenue business rather than the larger businesses," Mrs. Clinton said. "I'm disappointed we didn't specify more clearly what should become of the money."

An Exchange Gets a Windfall
Nowhere were the incongruities of the Business Recovery Grant program more evident than at the New York Mercantile Exchange. The exchange restarted its commodities trading system just three days after the attack. The next Monday, traders were back in the pits at the exchange's headquarters in Battery Park City, a few hundred yards from the smoking trade center site.
Despite operating with reduced trading hours, the exchange quickly began to thrive again. The most important measure of the exchange's health -- the price of a seat, or the right to trade commodities contracts on the exchange floor -- hit a record three times before the end of 2001. Trading volume fell a mere 1 percent in 2001 and soared 30 percent in 2002.
Despite that fast recovery, traders at the Mercantile Exchange were among the biggest recipients of Business Recovery Grants. Of the $54 million in grants paid to companies based at the exchange, $44 million went to companies with a sole employee -- that is, to individual traders and brokers who worked on the floor of the exchange.
The windfall was not limited to the Mercantile Exchange. Traders at the American Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange, which were also up and running on Sept. 17, got $27 million. In all, investment dealers including traders, brokers and asset managers took in $144 million, 27 percent of the grant program's total. Their average grant of $71,325 was more than twice as large as the $32,800 average received by all other companies.
The chairman of Empire State Development, Charles A. Gargano, said that it was only natural for the investment companies to have received more because they were closest to ground zero.
The president of the Mercantile Exchange, J. Robert Collins Jr., agrees, saying the exchange traders only followed the program's rules. They simply computed their lost revenues and asked to be reimbursed.
He acknowledged that documentation of their losses or questions about the real long-term threat to their businesses were not part of the equation.
"If people want to moralize that making $100,000 a year is too much money to receive any government assistance, that is their right," he said. "I don't know how you divine what the appropriate amount is. But I don't think we as an entity have a responsibility for how the program was set up."

Zones of Compensation
In drawing up the program's details, Empire State made another decision that left many small-business owners complaining: its definition of the area hardest hit economically.
Overall, businesses from 14th Street to the Battery could receive compensation for economic losses attributed to the attack, but the highest payment scale applied to businesses that had been in the trade center or close by.
The agency defined proximity as the area bordered by Chambers Street, five blocks north of ground zero; Rector Street, three blocks south; the Hudson River, on the other side of Battery Park City to the west; and Broadway, one block east of the trade center site. Grants in that zone initially covered 10 days' losses, and were later increased to 25 days' losses.
"Considering the resources we had available to us," said Mr. Corbett, the agency official, "we believe that this was an appropriate structure to try to do proportional compensation."
Many business owners in the blocks just east of Broadway said they had been close enough to the cataclysm to have suffered physical damage and economic losses as great as those on Broadway, yet they were being treated differently.
Empire State officials said their major consideration in defining the prime compensation zone was how long business owners had been denied access to their premises. They said that in choosing Broadway, just one block from ground zero, as the eastern cutoff, they had followed the City Office of Emergency Management's guidelines, which said that businesses on Broadway and to the west had generally gone the longest without access.
How this played out is seen at places like Evelyn's Chocolates, at 4 John Street, where Evelyn Robb has been selling candy and nuts for 40 years, and at the Shah Lobby Stand, in an office building at 160 Broadway, where Sam Shah has been providing newspapers, candy and soda for two decades.
The $7,987 that Ms. Robb was eligible for covered only 8 percent of her $105,000 in uninsured losses. Had her shop been on Broadway, just 50 feet away, she would have received $28,526, or 27 percent.
Mr. Shah received $6,245, not much less than Ms. Robb, though his $16,200 loss was about one-sixth of her loss.
At her shop recently, Ms. Robb said: "I was so annoyed because if I had an address on Broadway, I would have gotten more."
Her shop was closed for two months after the attack, and Ms. Robb said she had struggled ever since to stay afloat in the face of sharply reduced patronage, which she put at about half its pre-9/11 level.
Under the program's formula, her award was based not on her losses, but was 2.8 percent of her previous year's gross revenue of $285,256, with 2.8 percent reflecting seven days' losses -- the most covered east of Broadway -- in a 250-business-day year.
Ms. Robb also received a $25,000 grant from Seedco, a nonprofit group, but still had to take out nearly $50,000 in loans.
In his small lobby nook at 160 Broadway, Mr. Shah said he knew he was "a little better off," under the program, for having a Broadway address.
His newsstand was shut down for six weeks and did "little business" over the next six months, he said, explaining the $16,200 loss on his grant application. The $6,245 he received was 10 percent of his previous year's gross of $62,453, reflecting 25 days' losses in the 250-business-day year.
Mr. Shah said the money had enabled him to buy a new refrigerator. He did not apply to other programs to cover more of his loss because "it's a lot of paperwork."
Around the corner at 6 Maiden Lane, Peter Muscat, owner of Maiden Lane Wine & Liquor, said his experience showed that the Broadway boundary, less than 100 feet from his shop, had been ill conceived. Yes, he was able to reopen just two weeks after the attack, he said, but that proved to be no advantage.
"We couldn't do business because for a month there were barricades at Nassau Street," which parallels Broadway a block to the east, and the entrance to his block was restricted, he said. 
Mr. Muscat's seven days' compensation, based on his store's previous year's revenue, was nearly $24,000. Compensation for 25 days would have given him $60,000 more.
Not everybody who was narrowly excluded from the prime zone complained. Marvin Rafeld, the owner of 14 Wall Street Jewelers, whose location a half-block east of Broadway cost him nearly $200,000 in grant money, praised the program, having received $107,000 in response to his claim of $443,000 in losses.
"Without it, I can tell you without question, I would be out of business," he said. "Not only was it an economic lifeline, but it gave me the incentive to keep going."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Rafeld, owner of 14 Wall Street Jewelers, received $107,000 in response to his claim of $443,000 in losses, but still praises the grant money as "an economic lifeline." (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. A20) Chart/Map: "The Recovery Grants: How They Worked"Amounts were determined by proximity to ground zero, annual revenues and economic losses. Businesses with fewer than 500 employees were given either the percentage of their previous year's gross annual revenues that equaled the number of days of economic loss, or the maximum grant for their area, whichever was less. AREA: 14th St. to Houston St.DAYS OF ECONOMIC LOSS: 3PERCENT OF PREVIOUS YEAR'S GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: 1.2%MAXIMUM: $50,000 AREA: Houston St. to Canal St.DAYS OF ECONOMIC LOSS: 5PERCENT OF PREVIOUS YEAR'S GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: 2.0%MAXIMUM: $100,000 AREA: South of Canal St.DAYS OF ECONOMIC LOSS: 7PERCENT OF PREVIOUS YEAR'S GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: 2.8%MAXIMUM: $150,000 AREA: Restricted-access zone 3DAYS OF ECONOMIC LOSS: 25PERCENT OF PREVIOUS YEAR'S GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: 10.0%MAXIMUM: $300,000 (Source by Empire State Development Corporation)(pg. A20) Map of lower Manhattan highlighting Restricted-acess zone. Chart: "The Recovery Grants: Who Got What"An analysis of the $539 million program shows that financial professionals were the biggest beneficiaries. By number of grants received, retailers and restaurants are near the top . . . . . . but they fall toward the bottom when listed in order of grant amount, while investment dealers and law firms remain near the top . . . . . . and grant amounts per employee reveal similar disparities. COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 2,167INDUSTRY, GROUP: Retailers COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 2,017INDUSTRY, GROUP: Investment dealers COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: Legal servicesINDUSTRY, GROUP: 1,162 COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 1,088INDUSTRY, GROUP: Restaurants, Bars COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 943INDUSTRY, GROUP: Unclassified COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 871INDUSTRY, GROUP: Architecture, Engineering, Computer COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 841INDUSTRY, GROUP: Management, Professional services COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 747INDUSTRY, GROUP: Personal services COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 709INDUSTRY, GROUP: Wholesalers COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 601INDUSTRY, GROUP: Real Estate COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 582INDUSTRY, GROUP: Medical COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 458INDUSTRY, GROUP: Artists, Cultural COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 457INDUSTRY, GROUP: Insurance, Accounting, Banking COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 390INDUSTRY, GROUP: Social, Advocacy COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 370INDUSTRY, GROUP: Manufacturing COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 328INDUSTRY, GROUP: Office support services COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 274INDUSTRY, GROUP: Publishing, Photography, Communication COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 178INDUSTRY, GROUP: Construction, Contracting COMPANIES RECEIVING GRANTS: 167INDUSTRY, GROUP: Transportation, Shipping BUSINESSES: Investment dealersAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: $71,325PERCENT OF TOTAL: 26.7%TOTAL DISBURSED: $143,862,535AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 6.4AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: $38,113 BUSINESSES: Construction, ContractingAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 70,169PERCENT OF TOTAL: 2.3TOTAL DISBURSED: 12,490,142AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 13.8AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 14,728 BUSINESSES: Transportation, ShippingAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 60,520PERCENT OF TOTAL: 1.9TOTAL DISBURSED: 10,106,814AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 15.1AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 7,613 BUSINESSES: Social, AdvocacyAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 50,950PERCENT OF TOTAL: 3.7TOTAL DISBURSED: 19,870,597AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 24.7AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 3,896 BUSINESSES: Legal servicesAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 45,283PERCENT OF TOTAL: 9.8TOTAL DISBURSED: 52,619,340AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 9.5AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 5,387 BUSINESSES: Architecture, Engineering, ComputerAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 44,984PERCENT OF TOTAL: 7.3TOTAL DISBURSED: 39,181,163AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 13.2AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 4,870 BUSINESSES: Office support servicesAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 44,098PERCENT OF TOTAL: 2.7TOTAL DISBURSED: 14,463,984AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 13.2AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 8,571 BUSINESSES: Insurance, Accounting, BankingAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 43,764PERCENT OF TOTAL: 3.7TOTAL DISBURSED: 20,000,055AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 15.6AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 4,870 BUSINESSES: WholesalersAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 43,370PERCENT OF TOTAL: 5.7TOTAL DISBURSED: 30,749,070AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 9.3AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 8,298 BUSINESSES: Publishing, Photography, CommunicationAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 43,272PERCENT OF TOTAL: 2.2TOTAL DISBURSED: 11,856,546AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 12.0AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 6,520 BUSINESSES: Real EstateAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 40,788PERCENT OF TOTAL: 4.6TOTAL DISBURSED: 24,513,673AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 6.2AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 9,620 BUSINESSES: ManufacturingAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 36,130PERCENT OF TOTAL: 2.5TOTAL DISBURSED: 13,368,030AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 14.1AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 5,466 BUSINESSES: Management, Professional servicesAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 31,853PERCENT OF TOTAL: 5.0TOTAL DISBURSED: 26,788,458AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 6.9AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 7,090 BUSINESSES: UnclassifiedAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 26,163PERCENT OF TOTAL: 4.6TOTAL DISBURSED: 24,671,800AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 7.9AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 6,427 BUSINESSES: Restaurants, BarsAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 19,689PERCENT OF TOTAL: 4.0TOTAL DISBURSED: 21,421,970AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 14.7AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 1,475 BUSINESSES: RetailersAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 19,315PERCENT OF TOTAL: 7.8TOTAL DISBURSED: 41,854,643AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 6.2AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 3,509 BUSINESSES: Personal servicesAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 18,247PERCENT OF TOTAL: 2.5TOTAL DISBURSED: 13,630,756AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 7.4AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 2,996 BUSINESSES: MedicalAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 18,003PERCENT OF TOTAL: 1.9TOTAL DISBURSED: 10,477,940AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 8.3AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 3,452 BUSINESSES: Artists, CulturalAVERAGE GRANT AMOUNT: 15,659PERCENT OF TOTAL: 1.3TOTAL DISBURSED: 7,171,765AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: 5.8AVERAGE GRANT PER EMPLOYEE: 3,891 (Source by The New York Times' analysis of data from Empire State Development Corporation)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INSURANCE (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CITIES (60%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (55%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (62%)

PERSON: JERROLD NADLER (58%) WYATT, EDWARD; FRIED, JOSEPH P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



190 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
DEE, JOHN T.

 BODY:
 DEE--John T. Of McAllister Drive, Saratoga Springs, and East 69th Street, Manhattan, died Friday, September 5, 2003, at Saratoga Hospital. He was 65. Born on July 25, 1938, in St. Louis, MO, he was a son of the late John F. and Alice D. (Kelly) Dee. Mr. Dee was a graduate of Cleveland High School and of the University of Missouri and had completed the Program for Management Development at the Harvard Graduate School of Business. He served as chairman of the board of Centerplate (trade name for Volume Services America Holdings, Inc) since August, 1998, and as director of Service America since January,1993. He has been chairman of the board of Service America since January, 1997, and from August, 1998, to April, 2003, served as chief executive officer. He also served as president and chief executive officer of Service America from January, 1993, to April, 2002, and as a consultant to Service America from November, 1992, to January, 1993. From 1989 to 1992, Mr. Dee was president of Top Food Services, Inc, and from 1980 to 1989, he was group president at ARAMARK Corp. From 1979 to 1980, he held senior positions, including president at Sportservice Corp and was responsible for concessions and merchandise operations at many venues. From 1968 to 1979, he held various positions at ARAMARK Corp including president of Leisure Services Group. Mr. Dee was a member of several country clubs including the Loxahatchee Country Club in Jupiter, FL, the Innis Arden Country Club in Old Greenwich, CT, and the Aronimink Country Club in New Town Square, PA. 
He was also a member of the Rover Boys of New York City and The Skeeters, which was founded by the late Ted Husing. He was an avid horse patron and owned several thoroughbred racehorses, two of which won at Saratoga on July 26, 2003, as well as serving on the board of the New York Racing Association Backstretch Employee's Pension Fund. He also was trustee for the Committee for Economic Development and served as director of the USO of Metropolitan New York and The National Committee on American Foreign Policy. He is survived by his wife of nearly 35 years, Susan (Brier) Dee of Saratoga Springs and Manhattan; three sons, Ralph Dee and his wife Michelle of South Carolina, Ken Dee and his wife Judy of Manhattan and John Nicholas Dee of Saratoga Springs; his brothers, Patrick Dee and James and his wife JoAnn Dee, all of St. Louis, MO; and a niece and nephew, Jeanne and James P. Dee. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 11 a.m., Friday, September 12, 2003 at St. Clement's Roman Catholic Church, 231 Lake Avenue, Saratoga Springs. Burial will follow in the family plot at St. Peter's Cemetery on West Avenue, Saratoga Springs. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, NY, NY, from 2-4 and 7-9 p.m., Tuesday and Wednesday. Memorial contributions may be made to the Saratoga Hospital Foundation, 211 Church Street, Saratoga Springs, NY 12866 or to the American Cancer Society, 260 Osborne Road, Loudonville, NY 12211 (800-227-2345). For more information contact William J. Burke & Sons/Bussing & Cunniff Funeral Homes, 628 North Broadway, Saratoga Springs (518-584-5373 or burkefuneralhome.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HORSE RACING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); HORSES (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); RELIGION (62%); CEMETERIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) 

COMPANY: ARAMARK CORP (91%); CENTERPLATE INC (84%); FOOD SERVICE INC (69%); DELAWARE NORTH COS INC (68%); NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (91%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); NAICS722320 CATERERS (84%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (68%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (53%)

PERSON:  DEE, JOHN T. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (91%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



191 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: The President's Speech 

 BODY:
President Bush urged the American people to stay the course in Iraq last night. We wish he had announced a course correction.
 It was impossible to watch Mr. Bush's somber speech without remembering that four months ago, when the president made his "Top Gun" landing on an aircraft carrier and declared an end to "major combat operations," the White House was worried about giving the world the impression that Americans were gloating. 
 Now, Washington has been compelled to recognize that it cannot succeed in securing Iraq alone and badly needs much more United Nations help. Yet the administration still resists paying the necessary price of accepting broad U.N. authority over rebuilding Iraq's institutions and economy. Telling members of the U.N. that they have a "responsibility" to step up to the plate may seem a little presumptuous given the way Mr. Bush ignored their earlier concerns at the time of the invasion. The United States needs to negotiate realistically with France, Germany and Russia on expanding the peacekeeping forces and getting financial help with the huge reconstruction costs.
Given the fact that no weapons of mass destruction have been uncovered in Iraq, the president needs to be much more up-front with the American people about why our troops are there. Polls show most Americans still believe that Iraq was behind the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, although there is no evidence connecting Saddam Hussein to the terror plot. That is in part because the president continues to draw a line between Sept. 11 and Iraq. There are still good reasons to maintain America's commitment in Iraq. But Mr. Bush's tendency to refer to everyone from Baath Party loyalists to guerrilla fighters as terrorists seems designed to confuse the public rather than clarify the administration's goals.
While Mr. Bush finally set a price tag on the upcoming cost of the Iraq effort, he still has not done nearly enough to level with the American people. The bulk of the $87 billion the president said he would request from Congress goes to the military and intelligence. The amount that would be left for things like restoring water and electricity seems very low, given recent information on the pathetic state of the country's infrastructure. 
Mr. Bush's earlier attempts to evade setting a price tag on the Iraq effort were in part aimed at greasing the skids for the administration's tax cut program. Certainly now it is time to give up on the idea that the tax cuts temporarily approved during the president's tenure can remain in place. But while Mr. Bush is getting more specific about the numbers, he has yet to really tell Americans that they will have to make sacrifices to pay the bill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); BUDGETS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TAX LAW (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); GERMANY (71%); FRANCE (56%) IRAQ; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



192 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
For Schumer, A War Chest That Reflects Wall Street

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
New York's senior senator, Charles E. Schumer, was playing up his blue-collar roots the other morning when he surrounded himself in the Capitol with union leaders representing Teamsters, pipe fitters, painters and other workers.
 "My cousin is in that union!" Mr. Schumer, a Democrat from Brooklyn who goes by Chuck, chimed in at one point during the news conference when someone mentioned the communications workers' union. 
 But when it comes to campaign fund-raising, the senator turns to a decidedly different set of supporters, the kind that would make any Republican swoon: people on Wall Street and other players in the securities and banking industry. 
As he prepares to seek re-election next year, Mr. Schumer has amassed a staggering campaign war chest of nearly $17 million, and his top donors include people from firms like Goldman Sachs ($266,340), Morgan Stanley ($181,500), Citigroup Inc. ($169,800) and Bear Stearns ($125,400), just to name a few.
In all, Mr. Schumer took in roughly $6 million from people in Wall Street investment houses, major New York law firms and banks and real estate companies from 1999, the year he took office, to June 30 of this year, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that tracks campaign financing.
The money has kept pouring in despite the fact that Mr. Schumer has no Republican challenger and that top New York Republicans have all but abandoned any plans to mount serious opposition next year given his politically dominant position.
Republicans and Democrats say that Mr. Schumer's fund-raising success reflects his aggressive cultivation of donors since arriving in the Senate, where he sits on a powerful committee that shapes legislation affecting New York's financial industry.
Democrats close to Mr. Schumer say that he frequently holds small, intimate fund-raising events, usually at the home of a supporter. These invitation-only gatherings are usually billed as an opportunity to have a question-and-answer session with the senator on a range of topics.
Mr. Schumer also spends several hours a week on the phone making direct solicitations to donors, these Democrats say. Even Republicans express grudging admiration for Mr. Schumer's ability to command large sums of money.
Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, a Buffalo-area Republican who is one of the most formidable fund-raisers on the Hill, suggested that Mr. Schumer's financial dominance had scared off any potential challengers.
"Chuck Schumer and I may share the same viewpoint on fund-raising: having enough money in your campaign war chest brings peace through strength," said Mr. Reynolds, who is also the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. "Chuck Schumer's a voracious fund-raiser."
Douglas Weber, a researcher for the Center for Responsive Politics, said Mr. Schumer's feverish fund-raising pace reflects the enormous costs of running a campaign in a state as expensive as New York.
Indeed, the 1998 New York Senate race between Mr. Schumer and Alfonse M. D'Amato, the Republican incumbent, cost a total of about $44 million. That was the most expensive Senate race in New York history until 2000, the year that Hillary Rodham Clinton won Daniel Patrick Moynihan's old Senate seat.
Mrs. Clinton spent nearly $30 million during a race in which she faced two Republican challengers: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who spent about $20.7 million before dropping out; and Rick A. Lazio, a former congressman from Long Island, who spent $40.6 million.
Among the top industries contributing to Mr. Schumer from the beginning of 1999 through June 30 of this year were securities and investment houses ($2.6 million), lawyers and law firms ($1.6 million), real estate outfits ($1.3 million) and commercial banks (nearly $600,000), according to an analysis by the center.
Mr. Schumer established a reputation as an aggressive fund-raiser during his 18 years in the House, where he held a seat on the Banking Committee, a panel with jurisdiction over the financial industry. And he raised more money from the securities and investment industry than any other member of the Senate Banking Committee during the last Congress, the 107th.
According to the analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics, Mr. Schumer raised $3.4 million from individual donors in that industry between 1997, two years before he entered the Senate, and the end of 2002.
The committee member to get the second-highest amount of money from the securities and investment industry in that same period, according to the center, was Senator Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat from New Jersey and a former chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, with $963,054. The committee member to receive the third-highest amount from that industry was Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut, with $806,502.
Mr. Schumer's supporters say that it is no more unusual for him to take money from Wall Street than for a North Carolina lawmaker to take money from the tobacco industry. "Senator Schumer's contributions reflect New York's economy," said Phil Singer, Mr. Schumer's spokesman. "The majority of his contributions come from industries that have the largest presence in the state."
Mr. Singer added that people who donate to Mr. Schumer, including those from Wall Street, often give for reasons unrelated to their professions.
"What motivates them is what Chuck has done for New York and what he stands for -- whether it be pro-environment, pro-choice, pro-Israel or any other issue," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Charles E. Schumer, with union supporters last week in Washington. For his war chest, he turns to securities and banking industry players. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BONDS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) Finances; Banks and Banking; Legal Profession; Stocks and Bonds; Real Estate

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (93%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (56%) Raymond Hernandez; Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



193 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Bush Seeks $87 Billion And U.N. Help for Iraq
President Bush said that he would ask Congress for $87 billion in emergency spending for military and intelligence operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and that Iraq had now become "the central front" in the campaign against terror. A1

Wathiq Hindoa, a 55-year-old entrepreneur, believes that Iraq is the world's next great tourist destination. If the reconstruction effort is to succeed, American officials say, it may require such risk-takers. A11

Taliban Forces in Afghanistan
As many as 200 men suspected of being Taliban fighters have been killed in southern Afghanistan in the last two weeks. The military operation is part of a bid to combat a major Taliban effort to regroup. A11

Palestinian Minister Nominated
Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, has nominated Ahmed Qurei, left, the speaker of the Palestinian parliament, to serve as the new Palestinian prime minister. Mr. Qurei was said by associates to be interested in the post, but wary of repeating Mahmoud Abbas's experience. A1

The Bush administration warned Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel not to expel the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat from Israeli-held territory and called on Israel to exercise restraint in attacking militant groups. A3

Egypt's Courts Criticized
Three months after the Egyptian government eliminated one emergency court, saying it wanted to expand civil liberties, human rights groups and the relatives of prisoners have condemned the change as a showy move that has failed to improve access to fair trials. A12

France May Abolish Holiday
Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin of France is considering whether to abolish Pentecost, one of 11 national holidays, to raise money for improved health care for the elderly after last month's heat wave. A13

Drought in Italy Brings Mystics
The unrelenting drought in Italy has produced an abundance of work for dowsers, a network of mystics who say they possess the ability to sense underground streams. Geologists dismiss the dowsers as charlatans with success rates well within the bounds of chance. A8

Criticism of Peruvian Report
The Peruvian report determining that more than twice as many people died in Peru's "dirty war" as previously believed has prompted a limited but fierce reaction. Government reformers and human rights workers worry that acceptance of the commission's work is essential for Peruvians to reconcile. A4

Mexico Girds for W.T.O.
Mexico is preparing a blanket of security around the tourist resort of Cancun to protect the World Trade Organization meeting from the antiglobalization activists who have vowed to derail it. A13

NATIONAL A14-19

Ashcroft's Patriot Tour Energizes Friends and Foes
Attorney General John Ashcroft is seeking through a nationwide speaking tour to rally support for the sweeping antiterrorism law known as the Patriot Act. Measured solely by the amount of public attention and debate it has produced, Mr. Ashcroft's offensive has been effective. But he has had mixed success in swaying his doubters. A14

Senator Out of Race
Senator John Edwards of North Carolina said he would not seek re-election so he could focus completely on his bid for the Democratic presidential nomination. The announcement ended months of speculation. A14

Nuclear Plants Faulted
The emergency cooling systems that are meant to protect nuclear reactors from melting down in case of a ruptured water pipe could fail after a few minutes of use at most reactors, a nuclear watchdog group said. The group is arguing that the problem makes a catastrophe at the Indian Point power plant in New York 100 times more likely. A14

Ethnic Issues in Recall
Arnold Schwarzenegger was dumped as the grand marshal of the Mexican Independence Day parade in Los Angeles. Instead, it was Gov. Gray Davis in attendance, the hero of the moment in the Latino community for having signed a bill that gives illegal immigrants the right to hold driver's licenses. A17

Campaign Finance Law in Court
The Supreme Court is to hear arguments today on the constitutionality of the campaign finance law, which took effect last November. But some patterns have emerged in the practical effect the statute is having on politics. Groups that can solicit money to be donated directly to candidates are poised to become more influential. A19

Trying a Grapefruit Makeover
Florida grapefruit growers fighting double-digit domestic sales declines that have put many small farmers out of business are gambling on a $3 million marketing campaign that they hope will transform grapefruit juice from the dutiful tonic of old people into the must-have drink for hip, health-conscious young women. A1

EDUCATION

Back to School Amid Disarray
Many teachers and parents are reporting confusion as more than a million New York City students return to a public school system shaken by Mayor Bloomberg's far-reaching overhaul. B1

Long-Serving Dean to Retire
Meyer Feldberg, the dean of Columbia Business School, plans to step down at the end of the academic year after 15 years, an unusually long tenure for a business dean anywhere. He will leave his successor an institution that is in vastly better condition than he found it. C2

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Poll Shows New Yorkers Still Feel Effects of 9/11
Many New Yorkers feel trapped in the state of queasy normalcy that they found themselves in in the immediate aftermath of the terrorist attack, a New York Times poll found. Nearly one-third of those questioned said that their lives have not returned to normal. A1

Questions About 9/11 Grants
More than a third of the emergency grant money intended to help small businesses in Lower Manhattan went to investment firms, financial traders and lawyers, a result that some New York legislators who helped secure money for the program say they never envisioned. A1

Development Programs Faulted
A new study suggests that New York's longtime approach to economic development is obsolete. It argues that the industries upon which New York City has depended for its economic well-being have been losing ground and are unlikely to generate many new jobs in the future. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-14

American Wins U.S. Open
Andy Roddick beat Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain, 6-3, 7-6, 6-3, in the United States Open men's final, winning his first Grand Slam title. D1

ARTS E1-8

Internet List of Nazi-Era Art
An organization for American museums is initiating an Internet registry of 6,000 artworks at 66 American museums that were seized during the Nazi era. The list is intended to help speed the return of the paintings, drawings and sculptures to their rightful owners. E4

A Twist in Hispanic Reality TV
Officials at Telemundo say they hope for high ratings for a reality dating show, "Cindarella," in which it is unclear whether the winning man will be happy to win -- because important aspects of the lead woman's life are not revealed until the end. E1

OBITUARIES B8

Benjamin Merrill Holt Jr.
An early designer of geothermal power plants, he was 89. B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

More Older Employees at Work
A higher percentage of workers aged 55 to 64 hold jobs today than in early 2001. Older people now make up 12 percent of the nation's workers, up from 10.2 percent in 2000. A1

Media Mergers May Be Waning
NBC's agreement to acquire the entertainment businesses of Vivendi Universal may signal the final stages of an eight-year merger boom that has delivered control of film, television and music in the United States to a half-dozen conglomerates. C1

WorldCom's Plan Under Review
A trial is set to begin this week to decide whether WorldCom has devised a fair and feasible reorganization plan, which could remove the last big roadblock to ridding the company of more than $30 billion in debt. C1

Fine Print and Calling Plans
Most people who sign up for unlimited mobile phone plans are being charged 15 percent or more on top of the base rate when taxes and surcharges are added. Some are paying more than they did with calling plans that charge by the minute. C1

Reassuring Online Consumers
An Internet retail trade group said it would help create a coalition against identity theft to help reassure consumers, who are increasingly wary of online transactions. C9

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The president's speech; E.P.A. in the cross hairs; justice for Russians; New York's flawed school reform panel.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E6-7
Crossword E4
Weather B7
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALIBAN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); US PATRIOT ACT (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); WEATHER (72%); RESORTS (71%); TOURISM (71%); ELDER HEALTH (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); AGING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2003 



194 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: A Battle for Turf Where Threatened Grizzlies Still Roam 

BYLINE:  By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: NOXON, Mont. 

 BODY:
Before the Europeans came to North America, the grizzly bear reigned, hunting the plains as far east as Minnesota, south to the deserts of Mexico and along the salmon-choked rivers of the Pacific Coast.
 Two centuries of settlement beat them back, and now just two main populations remain outside of Alaska -- one with 400 to 600 bears in and around Glacier National Park, the other in Yellowstone, with 500 to 600 bears. They are designated as threatened under the Endangered Species Act, but many biologists consider their population levels healthy. 
 Three tiny populations, however, were stranded in the retreat and cut off almost entirely by roads, reservoirs and other development.
Some experts say recent decisions and inaction by federal agencies may doom the most precarious of those, the 15 or so bears of the Cabinet Mountain group north of this small mountain town on the border with northern Idaho. 
A major potential threat, they say, is a copper and silver mine that is planned in the bears' remaining habitat. Nine environmental groups filed a lawsuit in federal court in July to overturn approval for the mine given by the Kootenai National Forest. The federal Fish and Wildlife Service signed off on the mine, saying it would not harm the bears.
Environmentalists say the mine is only the latest action by federal agencies in recent years to jeopardize the bears' survival, prompting speculation that the federal government may be writing off the marooned population.
"It's the dirty little secret of grizzly bear recovery," said Louisa Willcox, director of the Wild Bears Project for the Natural Resources Defense Council, in Livingston, Mont. "They are letting them quietly go extinct."
Fish and Wildlife Service officials dispute that notion, arguing that they have programs to put in place to protect the bears as long as certain budget items are approved.
Some officials claim that the mine, with an estimated cost of $200 million, may not be built for economic reasons, but mining officials say their plans will move forward.
Even if the mine is never built, there are so few bears here that their survival is uncertain, experts say.
Dr. David Mattson, a wildlife biologist with the United States Geological Survey in Flagstaff, Ariz., and a colleague modeled the population trends of the Cabinet Mountain bears and the adjacent but distinct Yaak Mountain population to the north with some 15 to 20 bears.
The bears' decline is caused by an increase in human population in the region, he said, which hastwo main effects. If the human population continues to grow at the rate it has, the number of bear deaths is expected to increase as a result, Dr. Mattson said. "That means they won't be reproducing faster than they are dying, and they will disappear within 20 years," he added.
These isolated bears are especially vulnerable for other reasons, Dr. Mattson said. Climate change may contribute to the decline of the white bark pine nut, a critical source of food, as it has for the Yellowstone grizzlies. If something similar happens in the Cabinet Mountains, the bears may need to move to find food. "If there is an isolated population with a human fence around them and they can't move, they can't survive," Dr. Mattson said.
Mortality among the Cabinet- Yaak bears has been unusually high in the past four years. Of 30 adult bears, 14 have died, 9 from natural causes, mostly in the Yaak. The other five were killed by humans under different circumstances.
Although the Yaak bears may benefit from their connection to Canadian populations, Cabinet bears probably will not. The ranges are adjacent, but there has been no known movement between the groups, largely because of a highway, railroad and river separating them.
Michael Proctor, a Canadian biologist, recently studied the DNA of bears in Canada and in the isolated populations in the United States and found little movement across Highway 3 and into the United States. A few do make the journey, however, and experts are working on ways to encourage more to do so.
The other isolated populations are in the North Cascades in Washington with as few as half a dozen bears and in the Selkirk Mountains in the panhandle of Idaho. The two groups straddle the United States-Canadian border. The American side of the Selkirks has 15 to 30 bears, but the population is roughly doubled when Canada is included. 
While those numbers are still precarious, Wayne Wakkinen, senior wildlife research biologist for the Idaho Department of Fish and Game, said the Selkirk population seemed to be expanding. "They have been isolated for the short term," he said, "but as we see an increase in population we might get over that" as they seek new habitat and encounter bears from other ecosystems.
Environmentalists say that prospect is excessively rosy. They point to the refusal of the Fish and Wildlife Service to elevate the bears from threatened to endangered, for example. While federal officials acknowledge the numbers warrant such a listing, they cite a limited budget and contend that endangered status will still not offer greater protection. 
The Fish and Wildlife Service also ended a long-term program begun in 1994 to bring in more female bears to supplement the population because of opposition from local residents.
Reducing bear deaths caused by humans has not been a priority in the Cabinets, Ms. Willcox of the Wild Bears Project said. "We know how to do this," she said. "This is basic simple stuff that was done in Yellowstone." Using bear-proof garbage containers, ending black bear hunting and increasing law enforcement will reduce their death rate, she said. 
Dr. Chris Servheen, the grizzly bear recovery coordinator for the Fish and Wildlife Service in Missoula, agrees that more protective measures should be taken. "We're very concerned about the Cabinet bears and always have been," he said. Claims that they are being ignored are nonsense, he added.
This fall, if the budget permits, the agency plans to improve protection, adding bear-proof garbage cans and offering education for hunters, among other projects. Eventually more bears are to be brought in. "The tools are in the toolbox," Dr. Servheen said.
He also noted that the Forest Service would require Sterling Resources of Spokane, Wash., the mine's owners, to provide long-term protection of 2,000 other acres for the bear, and to shut down some roads in the area. The company is also to pay for a full-time officer and a bear management specialist to decrease deaths.
If they do all that, Dr. Servheen said, the mine will have a limited effect on the bear.
The mine is to be built on 1,560 acres of publicly owned forest on the western edge of the Cabinet Mountain Wilderness. Some 700 workers will be brought in to extract 10,000 tons of ore per day. It is expected to affect nearly 500 acres, with waste disposal and a mill site to process the ore, and will require nine miles of new roads and road reconstruction.
Officials say they have no choice but to allow the mine, under the General Mining Law of 1872, long a bane of environmentalists. Passed to help settle the West, the law gives private companies publicly owned minerals at no charge. The government receives no royalties. 
Dr. Servheen and others say there are doubts that the mine will go forward because of costs. Noranda Inc., which had planned to open a similar mine nearby, recently abandoned its proposal.
But Frank Duvall, the chief executive of the Sterling Mining Company of Montana, the owner of the mine known as Rock Creek, said it "could be economic at today's prices."
The larger battle in protecting the grizzly is how to keep the separate populations viable. Rather than trying to protect bears in "postage stamp" ecosystems, many experts say the remaining habitats, including those in Canada, should be linked so that bears can move freely, providing additional protections.
If the Cabinet Mountain bears decline or disappear, for example, bears from other ecosystems are able to move in. "They're better equipped to ride out the local disturbances," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: In North America, only two main populations of grizzly bears remain outside Alaska. Grizzlies are designated as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. (Photo by Associated Press) Map of Montana highlighting Noxon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); FISHES (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TRENDS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); WILDERNESS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (71%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); SILVER MINING (67%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (58%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (57%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (57%) Bears; Grizzly Bears; Endangered and Extinct Species; Research; Bears; Weather; Mines and Mining; Migration

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA WILD (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (59%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (55%) Wild Bears Project for Natural Resources Defense Council; United States Geological Survey

PERSON: Louisa Willcox; David Mattson

GEOGRAPHIC: FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%) Alaska; Yellowstone National Park; Glacier National Park (Mont); Cabinet Mountain Wilderness (Montana); Canada

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 



195 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: AN UPDATE; 
At Last, a Clean Street, if Not a Clean Slate

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
After a long day going door to door in Queens selling cable television services, Derrick Kallicharran looks forward to coming home to the tranquil embrace of family and friends. 
 But as he bounds up the front stairs, he usually feels just a hint of tension -- the fear that he will find a sanitation summons tucked into the doorjamb, as he did a year ago. 
 "I've been cleaning my driveway and in front of my yard every day," he said. "I don't want to get another summons." 
In an earlier article in this series, which looks at how the people who live, work and do business on a single block are coping with New York's economic straits, Mr. Kallicharran expressed frustration at having to pay a $50 fine because a sanitation inspector found a candy wrapper and a few pieces of paper in front of his house while he was at work. 
At the same time, garbage was piling up in prodigious heaps along practically the length of 94th Avenue, where a factory that Mr. Kallicharran can see from his front steps has stood vacant for several years because the city's budget problems delayed construction of a high school at the site. 
On the day that the article appeared last month, a city sanitation crew swept down 94th and removed all the trash, including an old trailer in which a homeless person had occasionally been sleeping. 
While Mr. Kallicharran was glad the city had finally gotten around to cleaning the street, he was infuriated that it had not acted until the article was published. 
"It shows that if they want to do something good instead of going to innocent people and giving innocent people tickets, they can," he said. "But if they don't do their part and they expect everybody else to do theirs, it doesn't work."
The sudden cleanup was initiated by the mayor's Community Assistance Unit, which brings community issues to his attention. Jonathan Greenspun, commissioner of the unit, said he agreed it was unfortunate that the neighborhood had to put up with the trash for so long. 
"I share in their frustration," he said, "but what I would recommend is for them to recognize the fact that once the city is made aware of problems, we do our very best to go ahead and clean them up." 
After the trailer was towed away and the street swept clean, Mr. Greenspun's office had the ground floor of the factory painted to cover graffiti. At the same time, members of a demolition crew were removing asbestos from the upper floors as they prepared to take down the 80-year-old building. City officials said the building should be demolished by the end of the year so construction can begin on the High School of Architecture and Urban Planning, at least two years behind schedule. 
Mr. Kallicharran said it was a waste of money for the city to paint part of a building being torn down, especially during a budget crisis in which his property taxes had jumped 18.5 percent and the sales tax was increased and extended to the clothing he buys for his family. 
Mr. Greenspun disagreed. "Even if the new paint is there for only two days before the building is torn down, I don't think it's a waste of city resources at all," he said. "It demonstrates our willingness to respond to problems." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Derrick Kallicharran was frustrated at being fined over a wrapper and a few pieces of paper in front of his house. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (71%); SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (71%); CITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (66%); ASBESTOS (61%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Anthony Depalma; Derrick Kallicharran

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Ozone Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 



196 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Nizhny Novgorod Journal; 
Men Marry, With and Without a Church Blessing

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: NIZHNY NOVGOROD, Russia, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Standing at solemn attention with embroidered bridal crowns on their heads, two young men were married here this week by a Russian Orthodox priest, defying both religious and state law in this conservative country.
 Nothing like this had happened in the church's 1,000-year history, said a spokesman for the Moscow Patriarchate, Viktor Malukhin, and it was blasphemy. 
 Newspapers and television reported the event with bemusement. Homosexuality is legal in Russia, but it is mostly hidden, little understood and generally condemned. 
Russian civil law does not recognize same-sex marriage, and the two men were turned away when they tried later to register their union at a government office. The issue is not a subject of debate here as it is in the United States and Canada.
Church officials immediately suspended the priest and issued a statement condemning homosexuality as a mortal sin.
"Under no circumstances can this be considered a church marriage," said Mr. Malukhin, who is deputy director of communications for the patriarchate, in a telephone interview. "The church still views a marriage blessed by God to be a union between a man and a woman."
Before going into seclusion, the priest who performed the ceremony, the Rev. Vladimir of Rozhdenstvensky church, spoke to a local reporter. The priest denied that he had performed a wedding ceremony when he went to a small, empty church with Denis Gogolev, 26, and Mikhail Morozov, 24. 
However, photographs taken by a friend who went with them show the priest blessing the couple, placing the crowns on their heads, slipping a ring onto one of their hands and leading them in a ritual procession in what appears to be an Orthodox wedding ceremony.
Mr. Gogolev, a former military officer with a degree in economics, said he had bribed the priest to perform the clandestine ceremony. The priest muttered, "How shameful" just before he performed the ceremony, Mr. Gogolev said.
"This isn't a joke," he said, pacing his apartment in agitation as he spoke. "This wasn't a registry office, this was the house of God. Open any Bible and there's nothing in there about gender in marriage, only love. I spit on the church when it says our marriage is not valid."
With homosexuality rarely spoken of except in jokes, news of the wedding seemed to cause astonishment and nervousness among some people.
"Well, I'll be darned," said a chauffeur named Slava. "That one's hard to get your mind around. You never know what's coming next."
Another chauffeur, named Oleg, exclaimed: "My goodness, a man kissing a man. What if they've both been smoking? What's that like?"
Most Russian homosexuals hide their sexual identity, and the men's announcement of their wedding on Monday in this ancient city 250 miles east of Moscow was an unusual public assertion of gay rights.
They had already been in the news, though, after Mr. Morozov was accepted as a contestant in the Miss Nizhny Novgorod beauty pageant in June.
Government officials were aghast, and Mr. Morozov was quickly removed from the list of contestants. In a television interview, though, the contest organizer, Dana Borisova, said, "If he changes his sex he can compete next year, because he's a truly beautiful boy."
Since then the two men have appeared on Russian MTV and two talk shows that are pitched to a more tolerant urban youth culture that has been emerging in recent years. This is also the audience for a pop duo called Tatu that has drawn attention with affectations of lesbianism.
But there is even less public understanding of lesbianism than of male homosexuality in Russia, and researchers say many lesbians in this country suffer in ignorance and loneliness.
When Yevgeniya E. Debryanskaya, manager of the gay club 12 Volt in Moscow, was asked whether she was agitating for gay rights, she answered: "No. Russia is not ready for that yet."
When Mr. Gogolev was asked if he met with abuse for his open homosexuality, he said: "Of course. This is Russia."
He did not disclose his homosexuality to his family until he was 20, he said.
"My mother cried and said, 'I love you,' " he said. "My father, after cursing at me, said, 'Don't let anybody know about this.' "
Feeling angry and rejected, he left home to make his own way in the world. "I wanted to prove to my parents that I am a real person," he said. 
Nevertheless, the status of homosexuals has improved in Russia after decades of enforced silence and criminal prosecution.
Among other things, the glasnost -- or openness -- of the last Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, opened the way for public discussion of homosexuality by scientists and journalists at the end of the 1980's.
With the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, a gay rights movement gained momentum and lobbying groups and gay publications appeared. There is now a small gay subculture in major cities.
In 1993, during a period of nationwide liberalization, homosexuality was decriminalized. But there is a movement in Parliament to restore the criminal penalties, with its supporters fueling their effort with long-held stereotypes.
Gennady Raikov, an author of the proposed law, said it was easy to identify gay men because they speak in high voices. Anti-gay leaflets distributed in Nizhny Novgorod say homosexuals stand out because of their long hair, earrings and behavior.
"Dirt, perversion, stockings and lipstick" is the way Mr. Gogolev characterized the public portrayal of gay men.
"On television," he said, "you won't find your good homosexuals, your attractive homosexuals, your pure homosexuals, your articulate homosexuals. And I would like to add, we are happy homosexuals."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mikhail Morozov, right, and Denis Gogolev were married by a Russian Orthodox priest on Sept. 1 in a clandestine ceremony in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. Church officials immediately suspended the priest. (Photo by Maria Bulgakova/Komsomolskaya Pravda, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CONSERVATISM (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%) MARRIAGES; HOMOSEXUALITY; ORTHODOX CHURCHES; PRIESTS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 



197 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Debt Increased by $6 Billion in July 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Consumer debt expanded in July as Americans took out loans to buy more cars, Federal Reserve statistics showed yesterday.
 Borrowing through credit cards, auto loans and other personal debt not secured by real estate increased 4.1 percent, or $6 billion, to $1.77 trillion, the Fed said. 
In June, consumer credit increased by a revised $151.3 million, or 0.1 percent. 
 Consumer spending increased in July even as the economy lost 49,000 jobs. Household purchases, which account for 70 percent of the economy, rose at the fastest pace in four months, led by an increase in sales of cars and other durable goods, the Commerce Department reported earlier.
"If the economy were just made up of consumer expenditures, we could say there has been a full recovery from recession," Chris Rupkey, an economist at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York, said before the report was released.
Economists expected a $5 billion rise in debt in July. The Fed revised its initial June estimate of a $400 million decline. Revolving credit, which includes credit cards, rose 0.5 percent, or $327.1 million, in July to $726.9 billion, after falling $1.27 billion in June.
Nonrevolving loans for vehicles and mobile homes, which make up almost two-thirds of household nonmortgage debt, jumped 6.6 percent, or $5.7 billion in July, to $1.047 trillion, after rising $1.4 billion in June.
In the first quarter, mortgage and home equity debt totaled $6.219 trillion, up 2.8 percent from the final three months of 2002, the Fed reported earlier. 
After reaching a record in late May, applications to refinance fell 32 percent in July from June, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. Cash from home equity tapped in loan refinancing has helped fuel the economy.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Borrowing"Net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding; in billions of dollars seasonally adjusted. Annual Rates of ChangeJuly: +4.1%June: +0.1May: +7.3 Graph tracks net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding from February 2002 through July 2003 (Source by Federal Reserve Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%) CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 



198 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Quirky Runway Hits Signal a Mood Swing 

BYLINE:  By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
A dozen years ago, Karen Gates dressed to project the kind of muted authority she felt fitted her status as a public relations consultant for the tourism industry. "It was really about keeping up with what you thought was classic -- the Armanis and Chanels," she said. "You spent a lot of money but you didn't have a lot of fun."
 Now in her 50's and retired, Ms. Gates has released her inner Eloise. For fall she invested in items that make her feel adventurous and giddy, shopping to please only herself. Her choices included a Junya Watanabe jacket that is a quirky takeoff on Chanel, its bodice trailing fraying threads. "If I'm going to spend money in an economy that's tight I'm going to buy something that makes me feel good," said Ms. Gates, of New York, "and, definitely, that is not a basic." 
 Marilyn Garcia, who assists her husband in his Miami dental practice, has a closet filled with the requisite trophies from Prada and Gucci. This year Ms. Garcia, 42, opted for the unpredictable -- "pieces not so common, that make more of a statement," she said. Among them is a snug ruffled jacket by Jiwon Park, its price $1,500. The cost was not prohibitive, Ms. Garcia explained, because over all she has spent more judiciously, buying just two or three key items to see her through the season. "I don't have to have everything," she said, "and I know a lot of people in the same frame of mind." 
Her mood, like that of Ms. Gates, appears to reflect a shift in mind-set among the most eager consumers of high fashion, small in numbers but large in influence, since their purchasing habits help determine which looks will seep into the mainstream in the coming months. They are fashion's early adapters, and this season many have zeroed in on some of the quirkiest, most creative -- but also wearable -- offerings designers showed for fall. A year ago, a hobbled economy and echoes of 9/11 haunted those same shoppers. "They were hesitant," said Linda Dresner, who has stores in New York and Birmingham, Mich. "They just didn't want to feel frivolous." But an uptick in sales of her more daring pieces -- deconstructed Watanabe coats and jackets ($800 to $1,500), a silver python bag from Chloe -- show that shoppers are "in a mood to emerge from their shells, to buy something that makes them feel cool," she said.
"Shoppers want what's unique and different," said Dana Telsey, a luxury goods analyst with Bear Stearns. "Money is tighter than it has been, so they want to make sure that what they're getting is of value -- something that's going to differentiate an outfit." 
A case in point is a snug-fitting jacket by Oliver Theyskens for Rochas, embellished at the rear with a crazily billowing panel of lace-covered silk -- a hit at stores like Ikram, on Chicago's Gold Coast. "At $3,500, that jacket is not inexpensive, but we bought six and sold six," said Ikram Goldman, the owner, who caters mostly to an affluent, fashion-literate crowd.
At the same time, fashion itself has opened its arms to the sort of woman who in years past might have dismissed its more extravagant expressions as alien or intimidating. "The profile of the fashion consumer has changed," said Robert Burke, the fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman, where items like a Chanel simulated-crocodile jacket (about $1,950) and an Oscar de la Renta motorcycle jacket embedded with studs have helped boost sales of higher-priced designer wares. The women buying them are "not fashionistas," Mr. Burke asserted. "They're just American women enjoying fashion, or at least the creativity of fashion, more than they have in the past." 
Their embrace of the more inventive, indeed sometimes the flashiest, looks of the runways seems to bode well for the industry, galvanizing sales and spurring designers to pull out all the stops. "It raises the bar creatively," Mr. Burke said, "and puts more pressure on designers to create more and more arresting pieces." 
Not that designers are grousing. "It used to be that what you showed on the runway was always a separate entity from what goes on the selling floor," said Peter Som, who will unveil his spring 2004 collection in the tents at Bryant Park next Tuesday. "Now there is more of a direct correlation from the runways to reality," Mr. Som said. "It's the novelty pieces that are selling." 
One of his current star performers is a $1,495 silver gray sweater with enormous fox cuffs. "The fashion-forward things tend to go first, whatever their price," said Sarah Easley, a part owner of Kirna Zabete, the trendsetting SoHo boutique. "At this point, women have enough black pants, enough brown boots. What they want is a fantastic showstopper." One of the most sought-after items in the store is a blouse from Viktor & Rolf for about $600, its distinguishing feature a multilayered mille-feuille collar. 
In a reversal from past years, the more offbeat the item, the more likely it is to be snapped up as an investment, retailers say. At Jeffrey in New York, best sellers include a cloud-patterned cashmere sweater by Lucien Pellat-Finet ($2,650), pink patent leather pumps by Christian Louboutin ($430) and gold-studded opera gloves from Gucci ($490). "There is nothing frivolous about these pieces," Jeffrey Kalinsky, the owner, said. At Net-a-Porter, which sells high-priced fashions on the Internet, current hits include over-the-knee boots by Marni ($950), a silver knit minidress by Missoni ($870) and a waist-cropped moss green motorcycle jacket from Chloe ($2,000). 
Mellody Hobson, who owns a money management company in Chicago, bought a lacy cocktail outfit by Rochas with a spray of tulle cascading off its back. "You can dress up the jacket with the skirt that goes with it," she said. "But I imagine it with a black turtleneck sweater underneath. You want to be low key, but still original." 
"I don't think everyone gets it," Ms. Hobson conceded. "But that's a good thing."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 11, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Fashion page on Tuesday about the popularity of quirky fall designs misstated the given name of the designer of a jacket embellished at the rear with a billowing panel of lace-covered silk. (An article in The Times Magazine on Sunday about the restaurant 66, where patrons are wearing the designer's clothes, included the same error.) He is Olivier Theyskens, not Oliver.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boots by Marni are a hit at Net-a-Porter.com. Not a backpack but a new silhouette from Rochas. (Photo by Corina Lecca); The collar distinguishes a blouse by Viktor & Rolf. A Junya Watanabe jacket trails threads. (Photo by Jean-Luce Hure for The New York Times); A popular item on the Internet is Chloe's motorcycle jacket. Unusual pieces were part of Dries Van Noten's winter line. Full-length pleats highlight a dress by Alexander McQueen. (Photographs by Firstview.com above, below left and left ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (88%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); TOURISM (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%) Apparel

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: Ruth La Ferla

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 



199 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 32 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN GAINS. The yen rose as some investors speculated the Japanese economy will benefit as the global economy expands. In New York, the dollar settled at 116.58 yen, down from 116.83 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since March 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 



200 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Poor Workers Finding Modest Housing Unaffordable, Study Says 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
With the rise in housing costs outpacing that of wages, there is no state where a low-income worker can reasonably afford a modest one- or two-bedroom rental unit, according to a study issued today by the National Low Income Housing Coalition, an advocacy group based in Washington. 
 The study, "Out of Reach 2003," compared wages in each state, large metropolitan area and county in the nation against fair market rents as determined by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 In 40 states, the study found, renters need to earn more than two times the prevailing minimum wage to afford basic housing. In the most expensive states -- Massachusetts, California, New Jersey, New York, Maryland and Connecticut -- they must earn more than three times the minimum wage. 
The federal minimum wage, last increased in 1997, is $5.15 an hour, though some states put their minimums higher, topped by Alaska, at $7.15. The nation's median hourly wage last year was roughly $12 an hour, according to the Economic Policy Institute, a research organization that advocates on behalf of low- and middle-income workers.
The gap between affordability and housing costs has been increasing, the study found, and researchers and advocates for low-income workers say the implications cut across a variety of social issues. 
"When low-income families are paying so much of their income on housing, they are left to skimp on other necessities like food, medicine, clothes and time spent with children," said Sheila Crowley, president of the National Low Income Housing Coalition. 
For each state and locality, the study determined a "housing wage": the income a full-time worker must earn to afford a modest rental unit. "Affordable" rent was defined as no more than 30 percent of the household income, the standard calculation used by HUD. A "fair market rent" was also based on a HUD standard, typically the 40th percentile in a given housing market (the 50th percentile in the markets that are tightest and most expensive).
The national median housing wage necessary to afford a standard two-bedroom rental unit, the data indicated, is $15.21 an hour, up 37 percent from 1999, when the organization began collecting detailed statistics. 
In Massachusetts, the most expensive state for housing, the housing wage for a modest two-bedroom apartment is $22.40 an hour. In the District of Columbia, whose metropolitan area is one of the most expensive, it is $23.42 an hour. But even in West Virginia, the most affordable state, a worker would need to earn $8.78 an hour to afford basic housing, considerably more than the state's $5.15-an-hour minimum wage. 
Ms. Crowley said more subsidized housing was needed for low-income families. Not all housing experts agree.
"We're not, in this time of rising deficits, going to be able to subsidize our way out of any housing gap," said Howard Husock, director of case studies at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, at Harvard. "We need to find ways to increase wages of low-income families and to create more two-wage-earner households, through programs like those that encourage marriage."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Renting at Minimum Wage"Workers who make minimum wage $5.15 to $7.15 an hour cannot afford a two-bedroom rental unit at fair market rents, according to a report released yesterday by the National Low Income Housing Coalition. Chart shows the hourly wage a worker must earn to afford a two-bedroom rental unit in each state. Map of the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CITIES (76%); CHILDREN (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (52%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RENTING AND LEASING; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LOW INCOME HOUSING COALITION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%) NATIONAL LOW INCOME HOUSING COALITION 

PERSON: CLEMETSON, LYNETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2003 

 
