

201 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Still Defiant, Karen Rebels Deny Signing Cease-Fire With Myanmar

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

 BODY:
TAY BAY HTA, MYANMAR -- When Myanmar announced a cease-fire last month with one of the country's most prominent rebel groups, images of longstanding enemies shaking hands across a table were beamed around the globe and touted as evidence of further reconciliation in a country emerging from decades of military dictatorship and interethnic strife.
Now, three weeks after the deal was announced, the leadership of the rebel group is denying that a cease-fire was signed. 
''We can't say there's a cease-fire yet,'' Naw Zipporah Sein, the general secretary of the Karen National Union, said in an interview. ''We still need to discuss the conditions.''
There have been no reports of clashes between Karen rebels and government troops in recent weeks. But the defiant stance of the Karen leadership appears to be a significant setback for the government's efforts to end the grinding civil conflicts that have divided the country for decades.
Reconciliation with the country's armed ethnic groups has been one of the conditions that the United States and other Western countries have put on Myanmar before economic sanctions and other punitive measures are lifted.
The day after the cease-fire announcement, Hillary Rodham Clinton, the U.S. secretary of state, said that the United States would reward ''action with action'' and announced that Washington would appoint an ambassador to Myanmar after more than a decade without one. She called the cease-fire an ''important step forward'' for the country.
The confusion over the cease-fire remains murky and appears to be a mix of misunderstanding and backpedaling by the rebel group's leadership.
Ms. Sein said the delegation sent to negotiate with the government was not authorized to sign a cease-fire. A document was signed, but all that was agreed upon in January, she said, was that the two sides would ''meet again'' at the end of February. She declined to release a copy of the agreement.
Top officials of the Karen National Union, a cash-strapped organization with a ragtag army of several thousand troops, also admit that they underestimated opposition from the organization's rank and file to a deal with the government.
''The grass roots are very much concerned that it went too quickly -- they thought it was a sellout,'' said Saw David Tharckabaw, vice president of the Karen National Union and chief of its foreign affairs section. ''There is a feeling that we have been cheated.''
The organization must now ''move more slowly'' in dealing with the government, Mr. Tharckabaw said. He portrays the cease-fire announcement in January as part of a public relations campaign by the government for the benefit of foreign nations.
''The government wanted to show the world that the longest-running war between the government and a rebel group was over,'' Mr. Tharckabaw said. He said the Karen delegation came under ''high pressure'' to sign an agreement.
The government of President Thein Sein has pushed ahead with a raft of changes in recent months, including the release of hundreds of political prisoners and a loosening of restrictions on the news media.
But ethnic strife remains a key challenge, one that has dogged Myanmar, also called Burma, from the first days of independence in 1948. E-mails to Mr. Thein Sein's office seeking comment on the status of the Karen cease-fire were not answered.
About one-third of Myanmar's population are members of minority groups arrayed along the borders with Bangladesh, India, China and Thailand.
In the impoverished hills that make up the Karen homeland, tensions persist between rebels and government troops, according to Bo Aung Hang, a battalion commander in charge of a region along the Moei River, which separates Myanmar from Thailand. The area is strewn with land mines.
In Tay Bay Hta, a hamlet along the river without electricity or running water or roads, there is a palpable pessimism that is in stark contrast to the rekindled hopes for democratic reforms in some of Myanmar's biggest cities. The mood here is for defiance, not reconciliation.
During a ceremony this week to commemorate 63 years of fighting against the central government, Mr. Bo Aung Hang told an assembled group of about 150 villagers that the Burmese Army wanted to ''eliminate the Karen people.''
''All that will remain of the Karen is a picture in a library,'' he said.
As he spoke, rebel soldiers stood guard, carrying a variety of assault rifles and a grenade launcher.
''Over the past 10 years, 40 soldiers have been killed in my battalion,'' Mr. Bo Aung Hang said. ''Those of us still alive are still leading the revolution.''
Rebels call the central government the ''enemy.''
The leadership of the Karen National Union said that no date had been set for the next meeting with the government but that they are ready to respect the deadline and convene before the end of this month.
The organization has submitted a sweeping list of 11 demands, including a call for a simultaneous cease-fire encompassing all ethnic groups. (Fighting has flared in recent weeks between ethnic Kachin rebels and the government along the border with China.)
Mr. Tharckabaw, the vice president of the Karen National Union, summarizes the Karen demands as wanting ''equality and self-determination.''
''In short, we want a genuine federal system where the states will have their own autonomy,'' he said.
Villagers who over the last few decades have been in the cross-fire of one of Asia's longest-running conflicts, are skeptical that a deal can be reached, said Bothien Thientha, a long-serving officer in the Karen National Liberation Army who was wounded in a battle with a pro-government militia two and a half years ago.
''No one trusts the government,'' he said. ''We've been cheated so many times.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RAGTAG ARMY: Tensions persist between Karen rebels, left, and government troops along the border between Myanmar and Thailand.
 DECADES OF TENSION: During an event commemorating 63 years of fighting, a rebel told villagers that Myanmar wanted to ''eliminate the Karen people.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); ETHNICITY (52%); ETHNIC GROUPS (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



202 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Four Candidates Walk Into a Bar...

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS
''I LOVE humor,'' Mitt Romney told CNN in December. If so, he has a funny way of showing it. ''Funny'' as in, not really that funny. Still, give the former Massachusetts governor his due: he might just be the funniest presidential candidate from that state since John Kerry, or maybe even Michael Dukakis. Call it something to build on.
''She's the best, and it's all downhill from here,'' Mr. Romney said of his wife, Ann, who introduced him at a rally here Wednesday night not far -- but galaxies removed -- from the comedy hub of the Vegas Strip. He was speaking at a janitorial supply company, with large boxes of toilet paper piled high on shelves next to the stage. Great visual.
In Minnesota last Wednesday, a protester showered Mr. Romney with glitter, or ''confetti,'' as he spun it. It covered his hair. ''That's not all that's in my hair, I'll tell you that,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I glue it on every morning, whether I need to or not.'' 
He loves humor! Like that time in New Hampshire when Mr. Romney pretended that a waitress posing for a photo with him had grabbed his tush. ''Oh, my goodness gracious,'' he said, lurching forward. Or in Dubuque, Iowa, when he recalled that Ann had fallen during a visit there. ''She said, 'Well, I fell on de butt in Dubuque.' ''
Oh, my goodness gracious. This is not to pick on Mr. Romney. He is running for a serious job. And he is merely the front-runner in a Republican field that few would carve into any Mount Rushmore of (intentionally) funny politicians.
Newt Gingrich is much better at attracting Laffers (the conservative economist, Arthur) than laughter. Rick Santorum often looks as if he has a headache. Both Mr. Gingrich's and Mr. Santorum's laugh lines tend more to the caustic than the funny.
''As many of you know, I study history,'' Mr. Gingrich said, helpfully, at a debate. ''And unlike the president, I study American history.''
Ron Paul has gotten off some of the best quips in debates, but his overriding mood is of a cranky, ''get the hell off my lawn'' neighbor.
They have all had their moments: the old reliable Dick Cheney hunting joke (Mr. Gingrich in a debate), or the ''Obama uses a teleprompter a lot'' joke (Mr. Gingrich, constantly), or an easy Joe Biden crack (Mr. Santorum in a speech). Or Mr. Paul (at a Florida debate) saying: ''I don't think we should go to the moon. I think we maybe should send some politicians up there.''
But there are no laugh-riots in this group -- no Bob Doles or John McCains, two of the funnier candidates of the last few decades (that is, until they were fitted with the straitjacket of being their party's nominee).
And certainly no Mo Udalls. The congressman from Arizona, who sought the Democrats' presidential nomination in 1976, has been hailed as perhaps the funniest candidate of recent vintage.
(One of Mr. Udall's stump favorites: He said he walked into a barbershop, told the barber he was running for president, and the barber said, ''Oh yeah, we were just laughing about that yesterday.'')
These are serious men, imbued with lofty senses of mission and thrilled to leave the heavy comic lifting to the tweeters, late-night comedians and Herman Cains.
''I am not running for entertainer in chief,'' Mr. Gingrich declared on Tuesday night after being trounced by Mr. Romney in Florida. No kidding.
In fairness, people close to all of the candidates insist that these men are funny in private. But every politician is said to be ''funny in private.''
''Funny in private'' is the politician's equivalent of a band claiming to be really big in Australia or a teenager claiming to have lost his virginity at summer camp. Who'll ever know?
''I live for laughter,'' Mr. Romney assured Wolf Blitzer, who himself was the source of unintentional comedy at a debate last year when Mr. Cain kept calling him Blitz. (Long live the Herman-ator!)
''As soon as you will turn these cameras off,'' Ann Romney told Mr. Blitzer, her husband ''will be telling a joke, and we will be laughing.''
The problem comes when the camera's on. Mr. Romney has a few stock jokes, as all candidates do. He had an unrelenting fondness in Iowa for saying that the ''amber waves of grain'' line in ''America the Beautiful'' could refer to corn. It usually drew laughs, mostly of the polite Iowa variety.
(For what it's worth, his father, George Romney, whose presidential hopes were dashed when he claimed to have been ''brainwashed'' into supporting the Vietnam War, was the butt of this epic stinger from Senator Eugene McCarthy: With George, the senator said, ''a light rinse would have been sufficient.'' )
Mr. Gingrich can be ''wry, witty and observational,'' said his spokesman, R. C. Hammond. But the cameras make it hard.
Indeed, blame the cameras and recording devices, which have never been as ubiquitous or viral in their potential impact. President Obama learned this the hard way four years ago (see ''guns and religion, clinging to''), just as he provided an object lesson in bringing offense with a thrown-off quip when he told Jay Leno that his low bowling ability was worthy of the Special Olympics.
While Mr. Obama has a decent sense of comic timing and is adept at delivering written joke lines, many perceive his default bearing to be professorial and aloof -- anything but light. The rap that he clings to teleprompters carries an implicit dig that he is overly scripted.
It is akin to critics deriding Mr. Romney's delivery as ''robotic.'' (''Ha. Ha. Ha,'' is how he laughs, always three ha's, with a full stop between each.)
But again, it's dangerous out there.
''I think everybody's so worried about saying something wrong that becomes permanent,'' said Senator Lamar Alexander, a kind-of-funny two-time Republican presidential candidate from Tennessee. ''Someone comes up to you, shakes your hand, has a camera and the next thing you know, you say the wrong thing and it gets tattooed on your forehead.''
Mr. Alexander was the subject of a riff from Mr. Gingrich last month -- maybe as close as you will see to a public giggle fit from the former speaker of the House. He was being interviewed in New Hampshire by Charlie Arlinghaus, a well-known figure in New Hampshire political and policy circles. Mr. Arlinghaus mentioned that in his basement he kept a copy of Mr. Alexander's book about running for office. This for some reason turned Mr. Gingrich giddy.
''A fine bottle of wine,'' he said, pretending to hoist a bottle, ''and Lamar's book,'' hoisting with his other hand. ''You're between the fine wine and the creamed corn, Lamar,'' Mr. Gingrich said. People in the audience were belly-laughing at this. Newt was on fire.
Guess you had to be there.
When told that his book was the subject of mirth, Mr. Alexander volunteered that ''Trent Lott told me he keeps my book in his bathroom.'' (Thanks for the mental image, Senator.)
Could the candidates deploy humor to better advantage? Yes, said Landon Parvin, a longtime speechwriter who has written humor for presidents of both parties.
''The best humor makes you more likable,'' Mr. Parvin said, adding that the most endearing humor is self-deprecating, an area in which these candidates could improve.
''With the absence of humor, you're not dehumanizing and objectifying your opponent, you're dehumanizing and objectifying yourself,'' said Thaddeus McCotter, a Republican congressman from Michigan who can be hilarious. ''In great comedy, the actors believe they are important serious people and the audience knows otherwise.''
Mr. McCotter ran for his party's 2012 nomination but never got his poll numbers high enough to qualify for the debates. ''I was called the anti-candidate,'' he said, ''and evidently you can't argue with that, given the outcome.'' He now supports Mr. Romney.
In light of his recent success at the polls, Mr. Romney has shown signs of letting her rip a little. He could not help himself in Florida, perhaps inspired by the presence of Mr. McCain, a Henny Youngman devotee (really) who warmed up the crowd with his worn-to-shreds one-liners. (Following a procession of speakers, Mr. McCain said, ''I feel a bit like Zsa Zsa Gabor's fifth husband,'' who on their wedding night said, ''I know what I'm supposed to do but I don't know how to make it interesting.'')
''I have to tell you one of my favorites,'' Mr. Romney said. ''It may not be that funny, but I love it.''
All right then: ''There's this farmer in Wyoming, he's driving this truck, this livestock truck. He's driving on, gets going too fast, state trooper pulls him over, comes up and says, 'You're going awfully fast, don't you have a governor on this thing?' He says, 'No.' He says, 'No, the smell you smell is from the animals in back.' ''
Apparently a ''governor'' is a regulating device found inside an engine, as well as a chief executive trying to be funny, with mixed results.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NO COMEDY FEST: The audience at a debate of Republican presidential candidates in Myrtle Beach, S.C., last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST10) GRAPHIC: SERIOUSLY, FOLKS: People close to Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul insist that these men are funny in private. Really, they are. (GRAPHIC BY FRANCISCO CACERES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (67%); HISTORY (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); RON PAUL (65%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOE BIDEN (56%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%); MYRTLE BEACH, SC, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (90%); IOWA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



203 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Panetta and Clinton Seek to Reassure Europe on Defense

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
MUNICH -- Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton sought to reassure Europe on Saturday that, despite budget cuts in Washington and the coming withdrawal from the Continent of about 6,000 to 7,000 American troops, the United States was not abandoning its partners across the Atlantic.
''Europe remains America's partner of first resort,'' Mrs. Clinton said, and Mr. Panetta described Europe as the United States' ''security partner of choice for military operations and diplomacy around the world.'' 
Mr. Panetta, however, drew another strong line against the prospect of about $500 billion in additional American defense cuts over the next decade, calling them ''crazy.'' So far the Pentagon is planning for only $487 billion in reductions over the next 10 years, which in Mr. Panetta's view is enough.
Speaking at a security conference here in Munich, Mrs. Clinton also denounced President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, calling him ''a tyrant in Damascus brutalizing his own people.''
The conflict in Syria hung over the conference and dominated many of the informal discussions, and it was a focus of questions to the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, who complained that a draft Security Council resolution still did not meet Russia's demands. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Lavrov had a bilateral meeting on Syria, with the Americans hoping to get Russian agreement to the resolution and France being less willing to go any further in toning down the language. But hours later, the resolution failed, vetoed by both Russia and China.
The joint appearance by the two American secretaries here was a first, and it was designed, American officials said, to make it absolutely clear that Washington would not abandon its European allies even as it cut spending and turned its focus more toward the Asia-Pacific region. But they also emphasized that Europe had to stop cutting its own military budgets and had to get its own economic house in order to keep the NATO alliance strong.
Mr. Panetta confirmed the withdrawal of two American combat brigades from Europe -- or about 6,000 to 7,000 troops -- which had long been expected. He said the United States would partly make up for the loss by designating a United States-based brigade to be ready to respond to needs in Europe. He also said that American troops would more frequently travel to Europe for more joint military exercises.
''Although it will evolve in light of the strategic guidance and resulting budget decisions, our military footprint in Europe will remain larger than in any other region of the world,'' Mr. Panetta said.
The United States has about 80,000 military personnel at 28 military bases in Europe.
European officials reacted with only mild concern to the American troop withdrawals. ''If some American troops leave Europe, it won't create any political problem between us,'' a French official said. ''We don't need a massive presence of American troops.'' A German official said he thought that the United States was overestimating European anxiety, but other Europeans said that the changing American focus marked a major strategic shift -- which began with the Libyan war, where Washington took a back seat -- that some Europeans did not fully understand.
''It's fascinating that the Americans are taking so much trouble to reassure us,'' said Constanze Stelzenmuller of the German Marshall Fund. ''In a way they're saying that both of us are weaker, and let's not make it more difficult for ourselves than we have to.''
The United States kept large numbers of troops in Europe as a hedge against the Soviet Union during the cold war, but today many of the forces based there are sent elsewhere as needed. For most of the past decade, at least two of the brigades based in Europe have been deployed to either Iraq or Afghanistan. President George W. Bush had planned to repatriate the two brigades, but until recently Mr. Obama had decided to withdraw only one of them.
A majority of United States forces in Europe are based in Germany, which as of September 2011 had about 54,000 American military personnel. At that point there were also 11,000 American military personnel in Italy, about 9,400 in Britain, nearly 1,500 each in Spain and Italy, and 68 in France. Others were spread in similarly small numbers throughout other countries in Europe.
Mrs. Clinton told her audience that Europe was still paramount. ''Now, I have heard all the talk about where Europe fits into America's global outlook,'' she said. ''And I have heard some of the doubts expressed. But the reality couldn't be clearer: Europe is America's partner of first resort.''
She pointed to the alliance in Afghanistan, the allied campaign last year in Libya and the joint effort to keep Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.
Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Panetta were a prime attraction at the Munich Security Conference, an annual gathering of European and American national security officials and experts. The two spoke to an audience that included Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state; Robert B. Zoellick, the president of the World Bank; Senators John Kerry, John McCain and Joseph I. Lieberman; and numerous defense and foreign ministers from Europe.
Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Panetta did not address Iran in their remarks or the intensifying talk that Israel might strike Iran's nuclear facilities this spring. Neither were they asked about it in a short question-and-answer session by the audience.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta in Munich on Saturday. (POOL PHOTO BY JACQUELYN MARTIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); VETO (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SYRIA (93%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



204 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Romney Takes A Solid Victory In Nevada Vote

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Reporting was contributed by Ashley Parker in Las Vegas, and Marjorie Connelly, David R. Jones, Allison Kopicki and Dalia Sussman in New York.

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Mitt Romney handily won the Nevada caucuses on Saturday, solidifying his status as the front-runner and increasing his momentum as he seeks to use the month of February to ease doubts within the Republican Party about his candidacy and begin confronting President Obama.
Mr. Romney ran well ahead of his three opponents on a night that delivered his second decisive first-place finish in four days, following his victory in the Florida primary on Tuesday.
He appeared elated as he took the stage at his election headquarters at the Red Rock Casino hotel here, kissing his wife, Ann, who reminded the crowd that Nevada would be important in the general election, and hugging his sons before delivering a speech geared toward the fall.
''This is not the first time you've given me your vote of confidence, and this time I'm going to take it to the White House,'' he said as the crowd chanted his name. And he delivered a harsh critique of Mr. Obama: ''This week he's been trying to take a bow for 8.3 percent unemployment. Not so fast, Mr. President.'' 
Nevada offers only a sliver of the delegates needed to win the Republican nomination, making it more of a symbolic triumph than a practical one. But it gave Mr. Romney an important opportunity to make a more assertive case that the party is finally coming together behind him.
It also gave him an advantage in his attempt to dispatch his chief Republican rival, Newt Gingrich, through the contests this week in Colorado, Minnesota and Maine.
The Romney victory further deflated the once-vital challenge posed by Mr. Gingrich, girding for a rough few weeks of political weather during which Mr. Romney is expected to do well. But Mr. Gingrich, who remained defiant on Saturday, hopes to revive his chances with stronger showings in the 11 states that vote on March 6, ''Super Tuesday.''
Far from competing with Mr. Romney here in Nevada on Saturday, results showed that Mr. Gingrich was vying to place a distant second to Mr. Romney against Representative Ron Paul of Texas.
Mr. Gingrich was once again in the position of vowing to carry on in the face of questions about his viability. He took his second straight defeat to Mr. Romney as an opportunity to hold a press briefing to outline his strategy for continuing on to the Republican convention in Tampa this summer.
The election night imagery was striking: Mr. Romney was surrounded by cheering supporters holding signs that said ''Nevada Believes.'' Mr. Gingrich used his first television appearance of the night to speak to a ballroom of reporters, without applause or signs, standing before a simple backdrop as he outlined his strategy.
''I am a candidate for president of the United States,'' Mr. Gingrich said emphatically. ''I will be a candidate of the president of the United States. I will go to Tampa.''
He went on to present an unusually detailed discussion of the campaign process that is rarely heard from a candidate on an election night.
He said he expected to catch up with Mr. Romney in the delegate race by the time of the Texas primary on April 3, promising that ''the contrast between Governor Romney and me is going to get wider and wider and clearer and clearer.''
Aides said that he had spent the past four days hunkered down in the sprawling complex of the Venetian and Palazzo casinos -- owned by his supporter Sheldon Adelson -- planning his new way forward. He has settled on what one of them described as a ''definitional campaign'' to disqualify Mr. Romney in the eyes of Republican voters in the coming weeks.
The Nevada Republican Party disclosed the results slowly on Saturday, with a patchwork of votes coming in from across the state. But Clark County, which is home to Las Vegas and includes half of the electorate, did not disclose its results until after a handful of evening caucuses that were held to allow observant Jews to participate.
Nevada is considered almost home turf for Mr. Romney, who is Mormon. Roughly one-quarter of Republican caucusgoers were Mormon, according to entrance polls, and the state shares a border with Utah, where Mr. Romney won credit for saving the troubled 2002 Winter Olympics. But Nevada's results may say little about the political terrain nationally, since far fewer caucusgoers appeared to have turned out than the number of Republicans who did so at the Iowa caucuses last month.
Mr. Romney was hoping that a strong victory in Nevada, four days after a commanding finish in the Florida primary, would strengthen his hand among Republicans who remain skeptical of his candidacy and his conservative foundation.
And there were some encouraging signs for him in polls of Nevadans entering caucus sites on Saturday, conducted by Edison Research for the National Election Pool of television networks and The Associated Press.
He won with a broad coalition of voters that included groups that he has struggled with in previous contests, including very conservative voters, strong Tea Party supporters and evangelical Christians.
The state has the largest share of voters who call themselves strong Tea Party supporters of any of the states that have participated in the Republican nominating contest so far. These voters are considered a vital part of Mr. Gingrich's coalition, yet Mr. Romney won a higher percentage of them than did Mr. Gingrich, according to the entrance poll.
More than 4 in 10 of the caucusgoers surveyed on Saturday said the quality that mattered most to them in a candidate was his ability to beat Mr. Obama in the fall; nearly three-quarters of those voters said they backed Mr. Romney.
The top issue on the minds of caucusgoers on Saturday was the economy, and 6 in 10 of those who listed it as their leading concern voted for Mr. Romney, potentially bolstering him in his argument that his experience as a businessman makes him the best candidate to improve the employment rate quickly. He was supported by almost half of those who said the federal deficit was their biggest concern. Mr. Paul was supported by a quarter of them. (Mr. Gingrich drew support from a fifth of those voters.)
Mr. Paul began building his organization in Nevada early. But he made it clear on Saturday that he was more focused on drawing attention to the issues of limited government, limited deficits and a restrained military than on winning.
Before there was any indication on Saturday of how he would fare in the race for second place, he addressed a boisterous crowd of supporters in Minnesota, which holds its contest on Tuesday, with a trademark speech. ''Something pretty big is happening in this country,'' he said, portraying the support he did win in Nevada as a vote for ''less government, less war and a free market economy.''
Like Mr. Gingrich, Mr. Paul has said he intends to keep competing through the entire Republican nominating process in an effort to acquire delegates -- awarded in more than half the states on a basis that is generally proportional to the share of the vote each candidate wins -- and to have a voice at the convention.
Mr. Paul has largely shied away from directly criticizing Mr. Romney, and his aides have indicated that his continued campaign is far less bothersome to them than Mr. Gingrich's.
With Mr. Romney heading into much friendlier political territory over the next month, a big question hanging over the campaigns is whether Mr. Gingrich will be able to revive his chances.
Mr. Gingrich was pinning his hopes on strong showings in the later contests, including in his home state of Georgia. But history has shown that it hard to recover from a series of losses.
Yet Mr. Romney, for all of his momentum, may be unable to swiftly lock down the nomination, given that he needs to win 1,144 delegates; even after Saturday he had yet to get one-tenth of the way there.
The next phase of the Republican nominating fight presents Mr. Romney an opportunity to test his message in several states that will be pivotal battlegrounds in the general election. He is poised to expand upon his economic proposals in the coming weeks, aides said, as the contest rolls through Colorado, Minnesota, Michigan and Arizona, all of which Mr. Obama is trying to win.
The most disappointing showing on Saturday went to former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who was in fourth place and has failed to show much electoral strength in recent weeks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney greeted supporters in Las Vegas on Saturday after winning the Nevada caucuses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) CHART: Nevada Results (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CASINOS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); RON PAUL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (77%) NEVADA, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



205 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Time for Tax Reform?

 BODY:
Should capital gains and dividends be treated like ordinary income? Readers discuss the pros and cons of tax preferences.
The Letter
To the Editor:
President Obama's State of the Union address and the scrutiny of Republican candidates' tax returns have made income tax disparities a hot topic. Mitt Romney came under attack for paying an effective tax rate of less than 15 percent because his income was mainly in the form of capital gains, including ''carried interest'' -- compensation that has been deliberately structured as capital gains for private equity managers.
Amending our tax rules to narrow the scope of capital gains is difficult, because defining the assets or activities that deserve favorable tax treatment is difficult. (I know. As a Congressional staffer in the '90s, I tried.) But, instead, why not just eliminate the capital gains preference?
Some argue that capital gains preferences promote investment, although the evidence is, at best, mixed. However, the clearest beneficiaries of these preferences are sophisticated tax planners and the wealthy. And now, to even Mr. Romney's skepticism, Newt Gingrich proposes to reduce the capital gains tax rate to zero. 
The Tax Reform Act of 1986, signed by President Reagan, raised tax rates on capital gains and lowered rates on ordinary income, but set the same 28 percent top rate for both. The goal: Reduce tax planning devoted to converting ordinary income to capital gains.
The policy worked -- briefly. Successive Congresses and administrations raised the top rate on ordinary income (which is now 35 percent) and then reduced the top rate on capital gains (now 15 percent). As the gap between the two rates grew, so did the opportunities to manipulate the system.
Most tax specialists believe that the time is again ripe for tax reform. One step would be to return to the Reagan days and once again tax capital gains and ordinary income at the same rate.
STEVEN M. ROSENTHAL Washington, Jan. 31, 2012
The writer, a tax lawyer, is a visiting fellow at the Tax Policy Center of the Urban Institute and Brookings Institution.
Readers React
Our overly complex tax code distorts the economy by rewarding investors at the expense of wage earners while boosting employment for accountants and tax lawyers.
Tax preferences, deferrals, credits, exemptions, breaks and other assorted loopholes for individuals and corporations are collectively known as tax expenditures. According to the Simpson-Bowles report, tax expenditures cost the Treasury $1.1 trillion a year. Eliminating all of them would balance the federal budget without raising tax rates and without cutting entitlements.
Tax reform should drive toward the goal of a simple, progressive tax under which tax liability is determined solely by net income rather than by what activities the taxpayer was engaged in.
MATTHEW LENNIG Palo Alto, Calif., Feb. 1, 2012
Besides raising revenue, a purpose of the tax code in to encourage certain behaviors that our society deems desirable. For example, home ownership is encouraged by giving a tax break for mortgage interest and for real estate taxes.
To this end, too, investments are encouraged by taxing certain financial gains at lower tax rates than would otherwise be the case. Thus investments in a startup company, be it a private investment or an initial public offering, are encouraged by taxing any gain on the subsequent sale of the investment at a low tax rate (currently 15 percent).
And maybe that is a good thing.
But most of us who make capital investments do so by buying stock in an already existing company on a stock exchange. The purchase of this stock did not in any way encourage growth of a new company. It probably did not create any jobs. Why should this investment be given a preferential tax treatment? Capital gains on the sale of stock bought on the open market should be fully taxed.
MICHAEL KAPLAN Princeton, N.J., Feb. 1, 2012
While Mr. Rosenthal is correct that ''the clearest beneficiaries'' of preferences for dividends and capital gains are ''sophisticated tax planners and the wealthy,'' a wholesale change in their tax treatment might seriously affect another group of Americans who are nowhere near wealthy and can't afford tax planners.
A great many older Americans live off dividends from investments resulting from a lifetime of hard work and cautious spending or money accrued from the sale of those investments or their homes.
The lives of the wealthy would not be affected by a 10 or 20 percentage-point increase in the tax rate on dividends or capital gains. But such an increase might deal a major blow to a significant number of these older Americans.
JUDY BALABAN QUINE Beverly Hills, Calif., Feb. 1, 2012
In determining a fair rate of tax for capital gains, consideration should be given to the effect of inflation on assets held for long periods. Ordinary income is taxed in the year earned, so inflation is not a factor. In the case of a capital asset held for many years, the gain in inflation-adjusted dollars will be much less than the apparent gain. Our current system nevertheless imposes a tax based solely on apparent gain.
Even the present 15 percent rate can result in tax owed where there has been no actual gain at all. Economists rely on inflation-adjusted figures to measure movements in real wages. The same should be done in determining capital gains tax. With an inflation-adjusted tax regime for capital gains, a level of tax equal to ordinary income rates would be fair and politically defensible.
PETER GROSSMAN West Hollywood, Calif., Feb. 1, 2012
Mr. Rosenthal proposes reforming our tax code to once again make the top rate for capital gains and income taxes equal. Unfortunately, this would not solve the fundamental problem: We place the burden of taxation on incomes, and essentially exempt wealth.
For example, an investor who simply holds on to a good stock investment would not pay any capital gains taxes until he or she sells out, while the wage earner must pay taxes on each dollar earned, each year.
If our taxes represent the portion of what we have that we must give to our elected government to finance its programs, then we should all pay the same proportion of our wealth in taxes. Why should wealth that we acquire by wise investment be privileged over wealth we acquire by using our labor and brains to work at a job?
CHARLES FREIFELD President AlphaMetrics Capital Management Brookline, Mass., Feb. 1, 2012
Capital gains and dividends should be taxed at the same rates as wages. But that is only part of the solution. We also need to eliminate the corporate income tax, making up the lost revenue with more progressive personal income tax rates.
I consider myself a liberal, but I can appreciate the argument about double taxation. I can also see the benefits of eliminating the drag on our economy caused by the corporate income tax. It would also make us more competitive in the global market.
JOHN CORNING Fort Myers Beach, Fla., Feb. 1, 2012
Better we should tax ordinary income at the capital gains rate.
JOHN BAYCICH Rose Valley, Pa., Feb. 1, 2012
Much of a person's purported gain when he sells a capital asset is inflation rather than true economic gain. For example, when an individual investor sells a rental property after 15 years for twice what he paid for it, his profit is diminished by the fact that a dollar today is worth less than a dollar 15 years ago. A reduced tax rate on capital gains reflects that.
Sales of assets held for one year or less are taxed at ordinary income rates. Perhaps the solution is to increase the holding period required to benefit from long-term capital gains tax rates from one year to several years. That would encourage long-term investment by wealthy individuals and reinforce the notion that inflation should not be taxed like a true economic gain.
MATTHEW C. MARSHALL Dunlap, Ill., Feb. 1, 2012
The writer is an in-house tax attorney for a Fortune 100 company.
The reduction to the current 15 percent capital gains rate passed under President George W. Bush was a great accomplishment. It gave an incentive to corporations to increase dividends and make them relevant again for investors.
During the various booms and busts of the last two decades, with the accompanying explosive growth in equity valuations, dividends had lost their allure. Today, with the 10-year bond paying less than 2 percent, companies with good dividends are being rewarded in the market.
However, change of this magnitude opens the door to exploitation by the rich and powerful. The 15 percent rate should rise progressively. An individual of modest means should pay at this rate, but the rate should increase with significantly higher unearned income.
An ideal next step would be for dividends to replace bonuses as the main incentive in executive compensation, so that pay rewards good fiscal performance.
RON FREELAND Woodstock, Md., Feb. 1, 2012
Maybe I'm the only one who doesn't understand the value in preferential tax treatment of capital gains income.
Using Mitt Romney's returns as an example, if he'd been faced with a capital gains tax rate of 28 or 35 percent, I wonder, would it be reasonable for him to forgo income altogether and just leave the money in a savings account?
MIKE McGOWAN Chicago, Feb. 1, 2012
Capital gains are taxed at a lower rate than wages to encourage investment.
Or, to put it another way, wages are taxed at a higher rate than capital gains to discourage work.
DAVID R. SHERIDAN Delmar, N.Y., Feb. 1, 2012
The Writer Responds
Defining the assets or activities that deserve favorable tax treatment is difficult, as the readers' letters illustrate.
I agree with Mr. Corning that our corporate tax rules already distort investment decisions; I also agree that lowering taxes on capital gains only aggravates matters. It unduly favors investment in foreign stock, precious metals, racehorses and real estate, and compensation such as ''carried interest.'' The most direct way to reduce distortions from the corporate tax is to lower corporate taxes or permit corporations to deduct dividends paid to shareholders.
Mr. Grossman observes that inflationary gains are not actual gains. But, again, lower taxes for capital gains are a crude tool, offering far more relief than can be justified by inflation. As an alternative, indexing the tax basis of assets might help, but indexing adds its own complexity (and new abuses if we do not index liabilities). Paying a tax on inflationary gains is a small price for not having to pay the tax until the asset is sold. With inflation now close to zero, adjusting for inflation is best left alone.
Mr. Freifeld flags the key question for tax reform: Do we want to replace our income tax, or repair it?
For the past century, we have taxed income from whatever source derived, albeit with some departures. Many proposals to replace our income tax would exempt at least part of the returns on capital investments, including interest. These include the FairTax, the Flat Tax, the 9-9-9 Tax and the value-added tax, or VAT. Are the reasons to favor capital returns truly compelling? I think not.
Last year, two separate bipartisan commissions, Simpson-Bowles and Domenici-Rivlin, recommended eliminating preferences, lowering rates, and taxing capital gains and ordinary income evenly. Doing so would help restore the credibility of our income tax.
STEVEN M. ROSENTHAL Washington, Feb. 3, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KEITH NEGLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (91%); TAX PLANNING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX REFORM (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WRITERS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); LAWYERS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



206 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2028 words

HEADLINE: The 2016 Election, Already Upon Us

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
The Washington bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
DISTANT as it may now seem, with the Republican race dominating the news and President Obama sitting in the White House, the Democrats are not all that far from the tumult of another nominating contest themselves.
No matter what happens on Election Day in November, when Mr. Obama wakes up the next morning, he will no longer be the future of his party. If he loses, attention will immediately turn to which Democrat might be able to pick up the pieces from the deep disappointment of his one term. If he wins, the party will begin turning to who might be able to accomplish the difficult task of winning a third straight term for one party. Already, the jockeying for 2016 has begun. 
Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, a possible candidate, traveled to South Carolina for its primary two weeks ago to give interviews criticizing Mitt Romney, the Republican front-runner. Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York governor, had a successful first year by going to the left on same-sex marriage and to the center on the budget. The candidate looming above all others is Hillary Rodham Clinton, who would instantaneously become the front-runner if she entered the race but who says she is retiring from public life when she steps down as secretary of state at the end of Mr. Obama's current term. Democratic strategists and fund-raisers are divided over how seriously to take that vow.
Whoever the candidates turn out to be, they will inevitably need to define themselves in relation to Mr. Obama, even if they don't say so. (After George Bush called for a ''kinder and gentler'' society in his 1988 Republican convention speech, Nancy Reagan reportedly asked, ''Kinder and gentler than whom?'')
Mr. Obama cast himself in 2008 as a more ambitious Democrat than Bill Clinton had been, one who wanted to begin a new era of American politics, as Ronald Reagan had. Mr. Obama may yet succeed, at least partly, if he can win re-election and cement the legislation of his first two years.
Ideologically, however, he has largely followed Mr. Clinton's left-center playbook, preferring a mix of market-based and government solutions (like health-insurance exchanges) to a more radical approach (like Medicare for all). ''The Obama presidency is not one in which the Democratic Party has been transformed,'' said Julian E. Zelizer, a Princeton historian. ''Instead, it has been four and maybe eight years in which the path of the '90s was solidified.''
A central question for 2016 is whether the mostly cohesive stitching of the left and center, a feature of both the Clinton and Obama years, will last. If not, Democrats could find themselves in the sort of turmoil that long characterized the party -- and that afflicted Republicans in 2008 and again this year.
Many economists expect the economy to remain weak for several years, which could create an opening for a more pointedly liberal candidacy regardless of whether Mr. Obama wins this year. If he loses, many Democrats will surely focus on what they see as Mr. Obama's timidity, be it on civil liberties, climate policy, the filibuster or public-works programs to help the unemployed.
Democratic voters may well go looking for a candidate who can credibly make a version of the same promise that Mr. Obama did in 2008: to change the terms of the national debate, rather than simply to operate as successfully as possible within the status quo.
The big caveat that should come with any discussion of 2016 is that a lot can happen between now and then. There may be one or two important 2016 candidates, whatever their ideologies, who remain obscure today. Or a prominent figure from Hollywood, Silicon Valley or a labor union could run.
Consider that eight years ago Mr. Obama could well have sat next to you on a plane without your noticing. At the time, he was an anonymous Illinois state legislator and Senate candidate. Herman Cain, who briefly dominated the current Republican race, was almost as obscure only a year ago.
Quick ascents are not wholly new. Abraham Lincoln and Jimmy Carter also went from national obscurity to the presidency in a short span. But such rises do seem more common than they once were. Twitter, Facebook and the rest of the Web allow candidates to jump ahead of others who have spent years wooing local party officials and editorial writers. The Supreme Court's 2010 ruling relaxing campaign-finance regulations may help newcomers, too.
The current partisan rancor has also increased the benefits of not having a long paper trail, in electoral politics and beyond. Tom Daschle, the former senator, urged Mr. Obama to run in 2008, partly because he did not yet have a long voting record. Arguably the two most powerful unelected officials in the country are John G. Roberts Jr., the chief justice of the United States, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman. A decade ago, Mr. Roberts was a lawyer in private practice, while Mr. Bernanke had run nothing larger than the Princeton economics department.
A plausible newcomer for 2016, Democrats say, is Elizabeth Warren, who advised Mr. Obama on the creation of a consumer-protection bureau for financial products and is now running to be a senator from Massachusetts (against Scott P. Brown, the incumbent and a Republican hero). She can deliver a punchy case for economic fairness, which has already made her a YouTube sensation. Obviously, she first would need to unseat Mr. Brown.
What kinds of Democratic candidates might we see in the 2016 field?
THE SILENT FRONT-RUNNER Imagine for a moment how Democrats would feel late on the night of Nov. 6 if news outlets began to call the race for Mr. Romney or another Republican. The comedown from four years earlier would be one of the starkest in American political history. The promise of Mr. Obama's victory would yield to the reality that a Republican president, and probably a Republican Congress, would be likely to undo significant parts of his agenda, starting with aspects of health care reform.
The post-mortem is easy enough to predict: Mr. Obama was a lamb among lions, naive to believe that he could win Congressional Republicans over to major bills, even compromises. Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, said as much early in Mr. Obama's term.
At least one Democratic politician began making this critique well before Mr. Obama was in office. ''We've got to be really clear that this is a struggle,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a 2008 interview, chiding Mr. Obama for his approach, ''and this is just not a moment where everybody will see the world the way it should be seen and come together to solve these problems.''
If Mr. Obama loses, attention will shift to Mrs. Clinton almost immediately. She brings her own baggage, having run a troubled presidential campaign and been a leading figure in a somewhat chaotic White House. She also sounds sincere when she talks of wanting a break. Arguably, no public figure has had a more intense past 20 years.
But at 64, she remains energetic and politically attuned. With friends and close colleagues, she still talks passionately about how she believes the Republican Party is harming the country. Polls show that she is among the most admired people in the United States. Given all that, turning down the prospect of beating a Republican incumbent might not be so easy.
THE DOER Whatever else happens, at least one governor or former governor will probably become a major candidate. Four of the last six presidents have been ex-governors. And in 2016, a governor may be best suited to offer the sort of implicit contrast that candidates often want to make with the last president from their party.
Mr. Obama is a talented speaker, which can allow his detractors to cast him as a talker rather than a doer. The next group of Democratic candidates may not say so, but they presumably would not mind if voters favorably contrasted their backgrounds with Mr. Obama's.
Regardless of the 2012 result, ''what will seem really appealing to people is performance,'' said John Podesta, chairman of the Center for American Progress and a former chief of staff to Mr. Clinton. Governor O'Malley added, ''We have to do what works and admit when things aren't working.''
Governor Cuomo has surprised his critics in the party, who remember him as an intemperate Clinton cabinet secretary, with his strong start as New York governor. His success pushing through a same-sex-marriage bill will help him with liberals, even though he seems more of a centrist, having confronted public-sector unions and opposed a millionaire's tax. Mark Warner, the Virginia senator who helped erase a budget deficit as governor, could likewise run as a moderate, with some of the Southern appeal that helped Mr. Clinton.
Still, a paean to post-partisanship may be a tricky message to bring to Democratic primary voters in 2016, given Mr. Obama's failure to win over Republicans. Compared with his fellow governors, Mr. O'Malley may be a more natural progressive fighter. A former Baltimore mayor, he could point to Maryland's schools, among the best in the nation, and his willingness to fight for tax increases and cut other parts of government to finance education.
''We have gone through a period when we have decided, knowingly or unknowingly, to undercapitalize the great, job-generating, opportunity-expanding capacity of America,'' he said in a recent interview.
Several other governors -- Deval L. Patrick of Massachusetts; Tim Kaine, another former Virginia governor; Christine O. Gregoire of Washington; John Hickenlooper of Colorado; Jay Nixon of Missouri -- may also be tempted. Even some current mayors, including Cory A. Booker of Newark, Rahm Emanuel of Chicago and R. T. Rybak of Minneapolis, may be potential future candidates.
One complication for the party is that its dismal 2010 showing left it with relatively few big names in swing states.
THE THIRD OBAMA TERM As should be clear by now, politics can change a lot in a couple of years. By the time the 2016 candidates begin making campaign announcements, Mr. Obama may be working on his presidential library -- or be a more popular president than he is today.
The economy might finally be healing nicely. A raft of expiring tax rates could push the parties into the big deficit deal that eluded Mr. Obama and John A. Boehner, the speaker of the House, last year. Events abroad, war or peace, could lift Mr. Obama at home.
In that case, candidates who can claim strong ties to him may see an opening. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has said that he remains open to running, though he will be 74 in 2016, two years older than John McCain was in 2008 and five years older than Ronald Reagan was in 1980. Another option is Mr. Emanuel, Mr. Obama's first chief of staff, who delivered a stinging critique of Mr. Romney in a high-profile speech just before the Iowa caucuses.
THE OUTSIDER Presidential campaigns often include candidates who win large batches of votes without ever seeming to have a serious shot at the nomination. Ron Paul falls into the category this year, and Jesse Jackson did in the 1980s. The seeds for such campaigns can sometimes be a single issue.
By 2016, scientists predict, the planet will have become even warmer, and extreme weather events may be more common as a result. Assuming Washington develops no major new climate policy in the next four years, the issue could easily form the basis of an insurgent campaign. It would not even need to come from someone who is today seen as an environmentalist.
To use an analogy, Howard Dean spent most of his 12 years as Vermont's governor being considered a moderate Democrat, more interested in budget cuts than many others in his party. ''Howard Dean represented the Republican wing of the Democratic Party,'' the editor of a local weekly newspaper said at the time. Yet Mr. Dean's opposition to the Iraq war turned him into something of a liberal hero, and he embraced the role in his 2004 presidential campaign.
In retrospect, it may seem odd. But it is certainly no stranger than the election of a father and son in the span of eight years, with the latter being followed by a recently obscure African-American man. It's politics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among those who could be in the running next time are, from top, Hillary Rodham Clinton, Andrew M. Cuomo, Mark Warner, Martin O'Malley and Elizabeth Warren. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PATRICK SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); FUNDRAISING (68%); HISTORY (61%); MEDICARE (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); MARRIAGE (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (73%); ANDREW CUOMO (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



207 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Do Manufacturers Need Special Treatment?

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of , President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
EVERYONE seems to be talking about a crisis in manufacturing. Workers, business leaders and politicians lament the decline of this traditionally central part of the American economy. President Obama, in his State of the Union address, singled out manufacturing for special tax breaks and support. Many go further, by urging trade restrictions or direct government investment in promising industries.
A successful argument for a government manufacturing policy has to go beyond the feeling that it's better to produce ''real things'' than services. American consumers value health care and haircuts as much as washing machines and hair dryers. And our earnings from exporting architectural plans for a building in Shanghai are as real as those from exporting cars to Canada.
The economic rationales for a policy aimed specifically at shoring up manufacturing largely fall into three categories. None are completely convincing: 
MARKET FAILURES Government intervention can be justified on efficiency grounds if the free market won't work well. For example, when competition in a market is limited, antitrust laws that prevent monopoly can be helpful.
In manufacturing, the market can malfunction if there are positive externalities across companies. That means that some benefits of a manufacturing plant go to companies other than the one deciding whether to build it. Clusters of manufacturing businesses can be more productive than an individual one. As a result, when an entrepreneur sets up a plant, some of the benefits accrue to other businesses in the area.
This argument could justify government subsidies or tax breaks. But large clustering effects have been hard to find. A study by Professors Glenn Ellison of M.I.T. and Edward Glaeser of Harvard showed that in many industries, businesses were only modestly more clustered than if they were allocated randomly -- suggesting that the benefits, while real, may often be small.
Moreover, the logic of clustering's benefits is likely to apply outside manufacturing. Software development, insurance and entertainment are three service industries where we observe clustering and where positive externalities may be large. Why single out manufacturing for special treatment?
A related argument for subsidizing manufacturing involves learning by doing. It takes time for a production process to become efficient. But whether learning creates a role for government depends on whether the eventual returns are captured by the company taking the risk. If the company that jumps in first and eventually succeeds reaps all the rewards, there's not a market failure. The company needs to count the learning period as part of the investment cost. And with well-functioning capital markets, it should be able to find investors without government help.
On the other hand, if an early entrant paves the way, but other companies come in later and snatch the rewards, government intervention could be helpful. In this situation, private entrepreneurs may not do as much early investment as would be good for the economy. Still, a study of the semiconductor industry found that although learning by doing was substantial, most of the rewards went to companies doing the early investing. And what spillovers there were, crossed national borders.
The possible externality of greatest concern may be national defense. The argument that we need a strong manufacturing base in case of war must be taken seriously. But it still doesn't follow that all manufacturing deserves special treatment. Which industries are truly essential in a war effort? And might normal production in military industries, as well as existing supply arrangements with allies, provide adequate protection?
Without compelling evidence of special market failures in manufacturing, it might be better to enact policies that will make all American businesses and workers more productive and successful. President Obama mentioned some in his State of the Union address: expansion and enforcement of free trade agreements; public investment in basic science, infrastructure and education; and corporate tax reform.
JOBS A key argument for encouraging manufacturing is to create jobs and reduce unemployment. Unfortunately, those effects are probably small.
Unemployment today is high, but not because of a decline in manufacturing. That decline has been going on for 30 years -- and for most of the 1990s and 2000s, the unemployment rate was less than 6 percent.
Today, we face a profound shortfall of demand. That truly is a terrible market failure, and it warrants government intervention. But we need actions that raise overall demand -- like a tax cut for households so they have more take-home pay to spend, more aid to troubled state and local governments, and public investments in infrastructure. These are all things that President Obama has advocated.
A narrow tax cut for manufacturing is unlikely to raise aggregate demand significantly. By making our industrial goods cheaper, it might stimulate foreign demand, but probably not enough to make a dent in our unemployment rate. On the other hand, more aggressive monetary policy that lowered the price of the dollar would stimulate all our exports, and so have far more impact.
At the same time, plant shutdowns by large manufacturing companies leave huge holes in local job markets, and moving is very costly for dislocated workers with ties to their communities. There's surely a role for government to help these devastated areas.
One little-emphasized component of the president's manufacturing plan is $6 billion of tax credits for any type of company investing in communities that have suffered the closing of a military base or another major job loss. A spate of new research suggests that such ''place-based'' policies may be effective in raising local employment and wages.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION A final argument for supporting manufacturing is distributional. Manufacturing jobs are seen as one of the few sources of well-paying jobs for less-educated workers. Indeed, in the four decades after World War II, manufacturing jobs paid more than other jobs for given skills.
But that is much less true today. Increased international competition has forced American manufacturers to reduce costs. As a result, the pay premium for low-skilled workers in manufacturing is smaller than it once was.
Today, manufacturing wages are high largely because production is capital-intensive and technologically sophisticated. As a result, educational requirements have risen. Now, more than half of manufacturing workers have some college education, up from just over 20 percent in 1969.
There are sectors where workers with good educations could earn good wages if the economy were healthy. Why focus on manufacturing to create such jobs? Instead, government could make it easier for workers to get the education needed for high-skilled jobs in many fields -- and encourage business formation wherever entrepreneurs see a promising opportunity.
If increasing income equality is the goal, it might be wiser to put money into infrastructure than to subsidize manufacturing. Construction also pays good wages, but with lower educational requirements. And America's infrastructure needs are enormous. Or, we could redistribute income through the tax code -- economists' traditional tool.
AS an economic historian, I appreciate what manufacturing has contributed to the United States. It was the engine of growth that allowed us to win two world wars and provided millions of families with a ticket to the middle class. But public policy needs to go beyond sentiment and history. It should be based on hard evidence of market failures, and reliable data on the proposals' impact on jobs and income inequality. So far, a persuasive case for a manufacturing policy remains to be made, while that for many other economic policies is well established.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DONGYUN LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY WORKERS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); ELECTRONICS (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); MONOPOLIZATION (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



208 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: As Afghan Mission Shrinks, U.S. Plans Shift to Elite Units

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States' plan to wind down its combat role in Afghanistan a year earlier than expected relies on shifting responsibility to Special Operations forces that hunt insurgent leaders and train local troops, according to senior Pentagon officials and military officers. These forces could remain in the country well after the NATO mission ends in late 2014.
The plan, if approved by President Obama, would amount to the most significant evolution in the military campaign since Mr. Obama sent in 32,000 more troops to wage an intensive and costly counterinsurgency effort. 
Under the emerging plan, American conventional forces, focused on policing large parts of Afghanistan, will be the first to leave, while thousands of American Special Operations forces remain, making up an increasing percentage of the troops on the ground; their number may even grow.
The evolving strategy is far different from the withdrawal plan for Iraq, where almost all American forces, conventional or otherwise, have left. Iraq has devolved into sectarian violence ever since the withdrawal in December, which threatens to undo the political and security gains there.
Pentagon officials and military planners say the new plan for Afghanistan is not a direct response to the deteriorating conditions in Iraq. Even so, the shift could give Mr. Obama a political shield against attacks from his Republican rivals in the presidential race who have already begun criticizing him for moving too swiftly to extract troops from Afghanistan.
Unlike in Iraq, where domestic political pressure gave Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki reason to resist a continued American military presence into 2012, in Afghanistan, President Hamid Karzai and his senior aides have expressed an initial willingness to continue a partnership with the United States that includes counterterrorism missions and training.
Senior American officials have also expressed a desire to keep some training and counterterrorism troops in Afghanistan past 2014. The transition plan for the next three years in Afghanistan could be a model for such a continued military relationship.
The new focus builds on a desire to use the nation's most elite troops to counter any residual terrorist threat over the coming months as well as to devote the military's best trainers to the difficult task of preparing Afghan security forces to take over responsibilities in their country.
The plan would put a particularly heavy focus on Army Special Forces, also known as the Green Berets. They would be in charge of training a variety of Afghan security forces. At the same time, the elite commando teams within Special Operations forces would continue their raids to hunt down, capture or kill insurgent commanders and terrorist leaders and keep pressure on cells of fighters to prevent them from mounting attacks.
Created by President John F. Kennedy in the 1960s, the Green Berets have as one of their core missions what is called ''foreign internal defense'' -- using combat, mentoring, language and cross-cultural skills to train local forces in rugged environments, as they are today in missions conducted quietly in dozens of nations around the world.
Just as significant would be what the American military's conventional forces stop doing.
Americans would no longer be carrying out large numbers of patrols to clear vast areas of Afghanistan of insurgents, or holding villages and towns vulnerable to militant attacks while local forces and government agencies rebuilt the local economy and empowered local governments.
Those tasks would fall to Afghan forces, with Special Forces soldiers remaining in the field to guide them. This shift has already begun to take place.
The defense secretary, Leon E. Panetta, surprised NATO allies last week when he announced that American forces would step back from a leading role in combat missions by mid-2013, turning over security responsibilities to Afghan forces a year earlier than expected. The description of the shift to a Special Operations mission in Afghanistan by senior officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the final plans have not been approved, go a long way toward explaining what Mr. Panetta sketched out for the allies.
White House officials confirmed in broad terms the shift to a Special Operations mission, and said a formal announcement on the future of the mission was expected at the May summit meeting of NATO leaders in Chicago.
''The president said in June that when the drawdown of surge forces is complete in September, U.S. troops will continue coming home at a steady pace and our mission will shift from combat to support as the Afghans take the lead,'' said Tommy Vietor, the National Security Council spokesman.
The United States has about 90,000 troops in Afghanistan, with 22,000 of them expected to leave by this fall. No schedule has been set for the pace of withdrawal for the 68,000 American troops who will remain, although some administration officials are advocating for Mr. Obama to order another reduction by the summer of 2013.
The planning for a transition of the Afghanistan mission is a central effort among the Pentagon's civilian planners and the military's Joint Staff, as well as among officers at the United States Central and Special Operations Commands.
Senior Pentagon officials involved in the planning acknowledge that a military effort with a smaller force and a more focused mission could be easier to explain to Americans who have tired of the large counterinsurgency campaigns of Iraq and, previously, Afghanistan.
To be sure, some American conventional units would be called on to handle logistics and other support services -- transportation, medical care, security -- to enable the Special Operations missions to continue.
But that would require a far smaller American presence to help the Afghans protect recent security gains while minimizing American expenses and casualties.
The plan first calls for creating a two-star command position overseeing the entire Special Operations effort in Afghanistan. Next, the three-star corps headquarters that currently commands the day-to-day operations of the war -- and is held by an Army officer from the conventional force -- would be handed over to a Special Operations officer.
Officials said that no final decisions had been made on the timing of the transition, although it is likely to begin late this year as the rest of the surge forces are withdrawn. There has also been no decision on the number of troops to be committed to the mission as it evolves in 2013 and into 2014, officials said.
Officials noted the progress in creating new ''Afghan Strike Force'' units to carry out commando-type raids, and they said that the effort to create an Afghan National Army -- which had been focused on building as large a force as possible -- would shift to emphasize quality and capability.
Officials conceded that the Afghan National Police program remained a huge disappointment, but said that a great value in American investment had been organizing local Afghan police units, drawn from the villages they are assigned to protect.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American troops on a mission in Paktika Province, Afghanistan, last fall. Under a new plan, elite units will soon play a bigger role. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); APPROVALS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (70%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



209 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Mitt's Muffled Soul

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
LAST week he did it again, wading into a discussion of money -- or, rather, of the ''very poor'' who lack it -- and succumbing to yet another pink slip of the tongue. Mitt Romney is forever being tripped up this election cycle by the topic of wealth.
Not, interestingly, religion. That was the angst last time around, and the extent to which the dynamic has changed, with mammon supplanting Mormon as the bejeweled albatross around his neck, was reflected in another recent comment of his, one that prompted less notice and was interpreted in a particular and highly revealing way.
At one of the debates just before the Florida primary, as he and Newt Gingrich jousted over the Latino vote, he answered Gingrich's charges that he was anti-immigrant by calling them ''repulsive'' and declaiming, ''My father was born in Mexico.'' Many news reports mentioned the moment, casting it as an example of his newfound readiness to take the fight back to Gingrich. 
But only a few of those reports recognized what an odd line of defense Romney had employed, given why his father was born there. The family lived south of the border because Miles Park Romney, Mitt's great-grandfather, had fled the United States after the passage of an 1882 law that explicitly banned polygamy, which he practiced. He was reputedly instructed to till a polygamous Mormon colony on foreign soil.
When Romney first ran for president in 2008, there was so much discussion about the potential impact of his Mormonism, and his own concern about it was deep enough, that he delivered a set-piece speech designed to rebut any lingering impression of the religion as an exotic, even loopy sect. In that painstakingly calibrated address, he said the word Mormon all of once. Christ or Christianity came up repeatedly.
Four years later, he still avoids the word, trumpeting his faithfulness without specifying the faith. What's surprising is that no one around him -- not reporters, not rivals -- talks about it all that much, either. The Romney-Gingrich showdowns in South Carolina and Florida got plenty nasty: at one point the Gingrich camp, flashing back to Romney's term as Massachusetts governor, falsely accused him of pretty much wresting kosher food from the mouths of Holocaust survivors. But neither Gingrich nor his allies played the Mormon card, even though nearly 20 percent of the Republicans and independents surveyed by Gallup last year said they wouldn't support a Mormon presidential candidate.
Steve Schmidt, who managed John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign, said there was a simple, good reason to let Romney's Mormonism be.
''It's baked into the cake,'' he said, explaining that at this point, voters are well aware of it, have already decided if it matters to them, and that's that. Anyone trying to use it against Romney, even obliquely, might succeed only in being branded a religious bigot, especially in a country ''that becomes more tolerant of difference all the time,'' Schmidt said.
His assessment is borne out by what happened when Politico, in a report last August, said that President Obama's tacticians were contemplating a general-election strategy that would underscore ways in which Romney seemed ''weird.'' The adjective sounded suspiciously like a stand-in for Mormon, as Romney's enraged lieutenants noted, and the White House hastily denounced the Politico report as dead wrong. Two months later, a prominent Baptist pastor at the Values Voter Summit in Washington called Mormonism a cult and encountered an instant -- and warranted -- backlash.
Will that be the end of it? One longtime Republican strategist I talked with predicted that Gingrich would broach Romney's Mormonism yet, with the aim of mobilizing the Mormon-wary evangelicals who vote in southern primaries on March 6, ''Super Tuesday.''
That's a regrettable motive. But there are valid reasons for the rest of us to home in on Romney's religion, not in terms of its historical eccentricities but in terms of its cultural, psychological and emotional imprint on him.
His aloofness, guardedness and sporadic defensiveness: are these entwined with the experience of belonging to a minority tribe that has often been maligned and has operated in secret? Do his stamina and resilience as a candidate reflect his years of Mormon missionary work in France, during which he learned not to be daunted in the face of so much resistance that he won a mere 10 to 20 converts, according to ''The Real Romney,'' a biography published last month?
And what of his sometimes huffy expectation that voters accept his current stances against abortion and gun control, to name two flips, and stop fussing over so many contrary positions in the past? Does that track with Mormonism's blithe reluctance, according to its critics, to explain controversial tenets that it has jettisoned, like a ban on black clergy members that was in place until 1978?
A tactful desire to avoid any sensationalizing of Romney's faith has created a tendency not to give it appropriate due. To read ''The Real Romney,'' which represents an exception, is to realize the utter centrality of religion in his life. One of the book's most arresting passages describes a moment when Ann, his wife-to-be and then a Protestant, asks him what Mormons believe. His detailed explanation moves her to tears, perhaps because it's so heartfelt, perhaps also because he's so nervous about her reaction.
The news media's caution about focusing on Romney's religion mirrors his own reticence, which, as Frank Rich pointed out in New York magazine last week, may be a big reason he can't connect with voters in a visceral, intimate way. He's editing out the core of his identity. He's muffling his soul.
''His church experience is, I think, one of the great humanizing influences in Mitt Romney's life,'' said Patrick Mason, a professor of Mormon studies at Claremont Graduate University. Mason noted that if Romney would embrace that side of himself, he could beat the rap that he's never been exposed to hardship by recounting his missionary experience. ''That's usually a very spartan lifestyle, and by definition most of the people you're talking to are going to be poor.''
Romney's even longer period as a Mormon lay leader in Boston involved counseling and consoling people dealing with marriage problems, addiction, unemployment: some of life's messiest, scariest stuff. He must have gained a fluency in human frailty. But when The Times's Sheryl Gay Stolberg was researching an article about that time, Romney predictably declined her interview request.
He has released tax returns, putting his Swiss accounts in the foreground. But he still cloaks his church duties, consigning his French proselytizing to the background.
Is it the right political calculation? I'm not sure. But I know it makes for a woefully incomplete portrait, denying voters something that they deserve -- and that might well cut his way.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLYGAMY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); MARRIAGE (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



210 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Russia: Sort of, but Not Really

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Moscow
AS a journalist, the best part of covering the recent wave of protests and uprisings against autocrats is seeing stuff you never imagined you'd see -- like, in Moscow last week, when some opponents of Vladimir Putin's decision to become president again, for possibly 12 more years, hung a huge yellow banner on a rooftop facing the Kremlin with Putin's face covered by a big X, next to the words ''Putin Go Away'' in Russian.
The sheer brazenness of such protests and the anger at Prime Minister Putin among the urban middle classes here for treating them like idiots by just announcing that he and President Dmitri Mevedev were going to switch jobs were unthinkable a year ago. The fact that the youths who put up the banner were apparently not jailed also bespeaks how much Putin understands that he is on very thin ice and can't afford to create any ''martyrs'' that would enrage the antigovernment protesters, who gathered again in Moscow on Saturday. 
But what will Putin do next? Will he really fulfill his promise to let new parties emerge or just wait out his opposition, which is divided and still lacks a real national leader? Putin's Russia is at a crossroads. It has become a ''sort-of-but-not-really-country.'' Russia today is sort of a democracy, but not really. It's sort of a free market, but not really. It's sort of got the rule of law to protect businesses, but not really. It's sort of a European country, but not really. It has sort of a free press, but not really. Its cold war with America is sort of over, but not really. It's sort of trying to become something more than a petro-state, but not really.
Putin himself is largely responsible for both the yin and the yang. When he became president in 2000, Russia was not sort of in trouble. It was really in trouble -- and spiraling downward. Using an iron fist, Putin restored order and solidified the state, but it was cemented not by real political and economic reforms but rather by a massive increase in oil prices and revenues. Nevertheless, many Russians were, and still are, grateful.
Along the way, Putin spawned a new wealthy corrupt clique around him, but he also ensured that enough of Russia's oil and mineral bounty trickled down to the major cities, creating a small urban middle class that is now demanding a greater say in its future. But Putin is now stalled. He's brought Russia back from the brink, but he's been unable to make the political, economic and educational changes needed to make Russia a modern European state.
Russia has that potential. It is poised to go somewhere. But will Putin lead? The Times's Moscow bureau chief, Ellen Barry, and I had a talk Thursday at the Russian White House with Putin's spokesman, Dmitri Peskov. I left uncertain.
All these urban protests, said Peskov, are a sign that economic growth has moved ahead of political reform, and that can be fixed: ''Ten years ago, we didn't have any middle class. They were thinking about how to buy a car, how to buy a flat, how to open bank accounts, how to pay for their children to go to a private school, and so on and so forth. Now they have got it, and the interesting part of the story is that they want to be involved much more in political life.''
O.K., sounds reasonable. But what about Putin's suggestion that the protests were part of a U.S. plot to weaken him and Russia. Does Peskov really believe that?
''I don't believe that. I know it,'' said Peskov. Money to destabilize Russia has been coming in ''from Washington officially and non-officially ... to support different organizations ... to provoke the situation. We are not saying it just to say it. We are saying it because we know. ... We knew two or three years in advance that the next day after parliamentary elections [last December] ... we will have people saying these elections are not legitimate.''
This is either delusional or really cynical. And then there's foreign policy. Putin was very helpful at the United Nations in not blocking the no-fly zone over Libya, but he feels burned by it -- that we went from protecting civilians to toppling his ally and arms customer, Muammar el-Qaddafi. It's true. But what an ally! What a thing to regret! And, now, the more Putin throws his support behind the murderous dictatorship of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, the more he looks like a person buying a round-trip ticket on the Titanic -- after it has already hit the iceberg. Assad is a dead man walking. Even if all you care about are arms sales, wouldn't Russia want to align itself with the emerging forces in Syria?
''There is a strong domestic dimension to Russian policy toward Syria,'' said Vladimir Frolov, a Russian foreign policy expert. ''If we allow the U.N. and the U.S. to put pressure on a regime -- that is somewhat like ours -- to cede power to the opposition, what kind of precedent could that create?''
This approach to the world does not bode well for reform at home, added Frolov. ''Putin was built for one-way conversations,'' he said. He has overseen a ''a very personalized, paternalistic system based on arbitrariness.''
Real reform will require a huge re-set on Putin's part. Could it happen? Does he get it? On the evidence available now, I'd say: sort of, but not really.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Moscow have gotten more brazen. This banner, which says ''Putin, Go Away,'' faces the Kremlin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS SINYAKOV/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); COLD WAR (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



211 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: The One-Page Magazine

BYLINE: By DAVE ITKOZZ, MATT BAI, HOPE REEVES, MIREILLE SILCOFF, JOHN HODGMAN, ADAM LEFF, RICHARD RUSHFIELD, GREG VEIS, ROGER BENNETT, MAUD NEWTON, HEATHER HAVRILESKY, MARNIE HANEL, EDITH ZIMMERMAN, ELIOT GLAZER, WILL SHORTZ, TYLER COWEN, HENRY WINKLER and LIZZIE SKURNICK

 BODY:
The Road to Etsy
By Adam Leff and Richard Rushfield
Alanis Morissette+ Y2K + Martha Stewart knitting clubs + The iPod = Scrapbooking + ''This American Life'' = Locavores -- Martha Stewart, inmate = Urban gardening + ''Flight of the Conchords'' = Fixie bicycles + ''Blue Valentine'' = The Hot Carpenter look + Feist = Beekeeping + Global financial meltdown = Etsy
THE BIG PROFILE: JENNIFER MORRISON
By Dave Itzkoff 
Before her ABC series ''Once Upon a Time'' surrounded her with amnesiac exiles from a fairy-tale world, Jennifer Morrison knew she had a soft spot for fantasy. During her days on ''House,'' she was turned on to the ''Battlestar Galactica'' remake. ''I definitely learned that I could only watch three episodes at a time,'' Morrison says. ''I could not watch more than that. Because otherwise I had crazy dreams, and it was a little out of control. I would literally wake up in the middle of the night, like, 'Maybe Starbuck is a Cylon!' ''
THEY'RE FAMOUS! (FOR PLAYING SOCCER): ERIC CANTONA FOR PRESIDENT
By Roger Bennett
Eric Cantona, a retired French soccer icon revered for kung-fu kicking an abusive fan, dabbles in political activism. In 2010, he urged citizens to withdraw their money from banks en masse. Last month, he insinuated an intention to run for president. The move was a public deceit, but Cantona, 45, said he was sending a message ''of truth and respect.''
WASHINGTON MONUMENTS: COME ON, GUYS,LET'S HUG IT OUT
By Matt Bai
One thing missing from this year's G.O.P. campaign is talk of uniting the country. Each of the last three presidents made unity -- and their ability to work across the aisle -- a major theme of their campaigns, but Mitt Romney and Newt Gingrich don't seem to care much about it. Maybe that's a good thing. When presidents promise bipartisanship, they give the other side a powerful incentive to prove them wrong. It might be easier for a president to confound expectations than fulfill them.
THE MEH LIST: SUPER BOWL EDITION
By Greg Veis
Indianapolis ''Look, there's Gisele!''
Dip, layers 5-7
Pregame show, hours 5-7
Calling heads
The Eli Face
Monday a.m.: ''Crazy game last night, huh?''
Additional reporting by Samantha Henig
I CAN'T QUIT YOU, ACHILLES
By Maud Newton
''I stole it from Plato!'' Madeline Miller jokes, when asked how she came to interpret the ''Iliad'' as a love story between Achilles, the half-god warrior, and Patroclus, whose death he insists on avenging even if doing so ensures his own. Her novel, ''The Song of Achilles,'' is drenched with longing not seen since ''Brokeback Mountain,'' and, as the writer Donna Tartt says, conjures the goddess Thetis with ''the true savagery and chill of antiquity.''
HEALTH: THAT'S ONE FAT CAT
By Hope Reeves
Albert, an 8-year-old house cat, weighed 25 pounds, 3 ounces -- about the size of a human 2-year-old -- before beginning Purina's ''Project: Pet Slim-Down,'' a reality webcast in which pets try to do just that. After 120 days, Albert (an ''emotional eater,'' according to his owner) clocked in at 23 pounds, 3 ounces. Now Purina is teaming up with Jenny Craig for a human-pet weight-loss program. ''Pets are great partners for weight loss,'' says Dr. Grace Long, Purina's director of veterinary technical marketing. ''It really does make it more fun.''
MOLECULE MEN
By Heather Havrilesky
A milkshake might bring all the boys to the yard, but does it reduce the greenhouse gasses there, too? A team of U.S.C. scientists has developed a way to absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere using fumed silica, a thickening agent in milkshakes. When the silica is impregnated with a polymer, it forms a new material that captures carbon dioxide from the air, which might then be recycled as fuel. ''We can't ban CO2,'' says Dr. Surya Prakash, a co-author of the study, ''but through chemical processes, we can recycle it.''
BRANDING: SO NOT MY TYPE
By Mireille Silcoff
The font created for this summer's Olympics, 2012 Headline, looks vaguely Hellenistic and as if it were drawn using masking tape. Simon Garfield, author of ''Just My Type,'' calls it the worst new typeface of the last 100 years. Iran's National Olympic Committee sent a letter saying the logo seems to spell ''Zion,'' not ''2012.'' ''People have seen all kinds of things in the logo,'' Garfield says. ''A swastika, or Lisa Simpson having sex. The only somewhat positive thing I can say about the hideous and inappropriate typeface is that it doesn't look like any other I can think of.''
COOK'S CORNER: HOW TO IMPRESS AN ATTRACTIVE STRANGER
By Edith Zimmerman
1 opening question: Does he know that L. L. Bean is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year?
1 follow-up question: Does he know that L. L. stands for Leon Leonwood?
5 minutes making up L. L.-esque names (i.e. Ralph Ralphington), concluding with . . .
5 seconds touching his arm
1 use of his name in the L. L. format as you excuse yourself (''Nice to meet you, Dan Dantholemew'')
THAT SHOULD BE A WORD: TABDICATE
by Lizzie Skurnick
(TAB-DI-KATE), V.
1. To let someone else figure out how to split the check. ''Sally loved to tabdicate after group dinners; she hated long division.'' See also: Spendicant (shorts group check); Megan (only pays for self).
ASK JUDGE JOHN HODGMAN
By John Hodgman
ANDREA WRITES My boyfriend, Seth, does not see the point in making legal ''right on red'' turns.
Seth's actions are acceptable if: 1) It is posted that he may not turn right on red. 2) He is a sociopath and does not believe the people honking are real. 3) He lives in New York City, where rights on red are forbidden, and everyone is a sociopath. 4) He is an infant and requires frequent naps. My verdict: Seth should keep the flow of traffic moving. And if he is an infant, make sure he is driving in a rear-facing safety seat!
Submit questions for adjudication at maximumfun.org/jjho.
BRAIN TWISTER
By Will Shortz
What well-known English city contains the letters A, B, C, D and E.
Hint: Azkaban was not real.
For answer, see bottom left.
Brain Twister answer: Cambridge
VERY SHORT REVIEWS
By Tyler Cowen
Novels in Three Lines, by Felix Feneon: Like Twitter from 1906 France.
Confessions of a Surgeon, by Paul A. Ruggieri M.D.: Read when healthy.
HOW TO BE COOL
By Henry Winkler
If you give up trying to live the image of who you think you're supposed to be, that opens the vent to allowing you the comfort of realizing: What do I think? What do I feel? What is it in my life I dream of doing, as opposed to the fear that I can't do it? As told to Spencer Bailey
Correction: February 26, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A caption on Feb. 12 with readers' pictures of their favorite travel destinations described Signal Hill in Cape Town incorrectly. It is not on the southernmost point of Africa. (It is about 140 miles northwest of the tip.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORRISON: FRAZER HARRISON/GETTY IMAGES. GRASS: RICHARD WAREHAM/GETTY. CANTONA: FABRICE COFFRINI/ AFP/GETTY. OBAMA: TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP/GETTY. BUSH: JOE RAEDLE/GETTY. CLINTON: TIMOTHY A. CLARY/ AFP/GETTY. PITT: ALEX BAILEY/2003 WARNER BROS. ENT./PHOTOFEST. SIMPSON: STEPHEN SHUGERMAN/ GETTY. OLYMPIC LOGO: PRNEWSFOTO/LONDON 2012. HODGMAN: STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY. JUDGE: GETTY. POTTER: WARNER BROS./PHOTOFEST. WINKLER: JASON MERRITT/GETTY. GLUE GUN: PR NEWSWIRE. MORISSETTE: JASON MERRITT/GETTY. STEWART: GREGORIO BINUYA/ GETTY. FEIST: STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY.) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY WILL BRYANT)
GRAPHICS
 CHARTS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MARTIAL ARTS (73%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); SOCCER (71%); GARDENING (57%); APICULTURE (56%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (90%); MITT ROMNEY (69%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (69%) INDIANA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012



212 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: The $1.6 Billion Woman, Staying on Message

BYLINE: By NICOLE PERLROTH and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO
SEVENTY-TWO hours before Facebook's big moment, Sheryl K. Sandberg was half a world away, hobnobbing with the likes of Bill Gates and the Archbishop Desmond Tutu.
Yes, Ms. Sandberg is Mark Zuckerberg's No. 2. And, yes, if all goes well, she will soon become the $1.6 billion woman. On Wednesday, Facebook filed to go public in a deal that, in all likelihood, will instantly make it one of the most valuable corporations on the planet.
But Ms. Sandberg, who has helped steer this social network to this once-unimaginable height, had more on her mind than securities filings and ad metrics. She was attending the annual World Economic Forum, in Davos, Switzerland, where her subject wasn't Facebook -- but women. Specifically, how women, in her view, must take responsibility for their careers and not blame men for holding them back. 
Given that Ms. Sandberg is Facebook's chief operating officer, and that all of Wall Street was hanging on last week's news, you might think that she was absurdly off-topic. But Ms. Sandberg sees herself as more than an executive at one of the hottest companies around -- more, too, than someone who will soon rank among the few self-made billionaires who are women. She sees herself as a role model for women in business and technology. In speeches, she often urges women to ''keep your foot on the gas pedal,'' and to aim high.
Her call isn't simply about mentoring and empowering. It is also about business strategy. A majority of Facebook's 845 million users are women. And women are also its most engaged users. So Ms. Sandberg is playing to a powerful and lucrative demographic, as well as to the advertisers who want to reach it. Inside Facebook's headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., she is considered a not-so-secret weapon for recruiting and retaining talented women as well as men. She and Mr. Zuckerberg will need the best brains they can find to sustain Facebook's astonishing growth.
Of course, it helps that Ms. Sandberg has personality and presentation skills. In Davos and on the conference circuit, in public appearances in Washington and on college campuses, she has a warm, disarming tone that sets her apart from many other executives, male or female.
Her talks have gone viral. On YouTube, videos of her speeches have been viewed more than 200,000 times. Some have been included in syllabuses at the Stanford and Harvard business schools. Put simply, she exudes that certain something that seems to leave many people, particularly young women, a bit star-struck.
''There have been a handful of women that could have been the 'Justin Bieber of tech,' but Sheryl is the real deal,'' said Ann Miura-Ko, a lecturer at the School of Engineering at Stanford and an investment partner at Floodgate, a venture capital firm in Palo Alto, Calif. ''Young women really want to be her and learn from her.''
Ms. Miura-Ko added: ''Sheryl is radioactive plutonium when it comes to a recruiting weapon within Facebook.''
Other women in Silicon Valley have been role models. Many, like the Google executives Marissa Mayer and Susan Wojcicki, have quietly campaigned to promote women inside their companies. Others -- like Meg Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay who now runs Hewlett-Packard; Carly Fiorina, the former H.P. chief; and Carol Bartz, the former head of Yahoo -- have reached pinnacles of success in tech.
But none have made promoting women a cause the way Ms. Sandberg has.
EVEN so, some say her aim-high message is a bit out of tune. Everyone agrees she is wickedly smart. But she has also been lucky, and has had powerful mentors along the way. After Harvard and Harvard Business School, she quickly rose from a post as an economist at the World Bank to become the chief of staff for Lawrence H. Summers, then the Treasury secretary. After that, she jumped to Google and, in 2008, to Facebook.
She is married to Dave Goldberg, a successful entrepreneur and the C.E.O. of SurveyMonkey, which enables people to create their own Web surveys. She doesn't exactly have to worry about money. Or child care. (She and her husband have two young children.)
To some, Ms. Sandberg seems to suggest that women should just work harder while failing to acknowledge that most people haven't had all the advantages that she's had.
''I'm a huge fan of her accomplishments and think she's a huge role model in some ways, but I think she's overly critical of women because she's almost implying that they don't have the juice, the chutzpah, to go for it,'' said Sylvia Ann Hewlett, president of the Center for Talent Innovation, a research organization on work-life policy, and director of the Gender and Policy Program at Columbia University.
''I think she's had a golden path herself, and perhaps does not more readily understand that the real struggles are not having children or ambition,'' Ms. Hewlett continued. ''Women are, in fact, fierce in their ambition, but they find that they're actually derailed by other things, like they don't have a sponsor in their life that helps them go for it.''
There's no denying that Ms. Sandberg has been remarkably successful at Facebook. When she joined the company, it had some 70 million users and no business model. With her in the C.O.O. seat, profits have reached $1 billion on $3.7 billion in revenue.
She has arguably made an equally big mark with her frequent speeches to women, which are a call to draw more women to technology, and to Facebook. She personally recruited Lori Goler, its head of human resources, and Katie Mitic, its head of platform and mobile marketing. Ms. Sandberg's role in keeping such employees has been even more crucial.
Sukhinder Singh Cassidy, who worked with her at Google, said Ms. Sandberg's high profile gave Facebook an edge in recruiting and retaining talent. ''When you have women who say, 'Can I stay in? Can I have children and make it still work?' the existence of role models like Sheryl is very impactful,'' said Ms. Singh Cassidy, who now runs a video shopping start-up, Joyus.
Ms. Sandberg declined to be interviewed for this article. But in an interview in 2010 with The New York Times, she spoke of talking with a female job candidate who never mentioned children.
''So we offered her a job and I said, 'We don't have to talk about this, but just in case you're thinking of turning down this job because you're thinking of getting pregnant,' '' you shouldn't worry, Ms. Sandberg said. There was no need, Ms. Sandberg told her, to choose between having children and a career -- both were possible. ''She took the job and told me she would not have taken the job had I not had that conversation. She got pregnant a couple weeks later.''
Her attention to women has paid off for the business in other ways, too, investors and analysts say.
Ms. Sandberg has said that women drive 62 percent of activity on Facebook in terms of status updates, messages and comment. Women also drive 71 percent of daily fan activity. Women have 8 percent more Facebook friends than men, on average, and spend more time on the site. In Facebook's early days, women were first to upload photographs, join groups and post to walls.
''It's no secret that women are an incredibly powerful market segment, buying online and making decisions in the digital world many times a day,'' said Aileen Lee, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm, which has invested in Facebook and several start-ups led by women.
Part of Ms. Sandberg's role has been to cultivate relationships with large advertisers seeking new ways to engage with customers -- particularly female ones -- online. She was instrumental in signing up advertisers like Procter & Gamble. After several meetings with Facebook, Procter chose the platform for a new Secret deodorant campaign aimed at young women.
''P.& G. wants to be where the people are, and more and more people are spending their time on social sites,'' says Alex Tosolini, vice president of Procter's global e-business unit. ''The purpose of our Secret campaign was to inspire women of all ages to be more fearless.''
It's a message that sounds similar to Ms. Sandberg's. And it bumped domestic sales of Secret deodorant by 9 percent in the first six months of the campaign and raised Secret's market share by 5 percentfrom the period a year earlier.
If Silicon Valley men bond in venture capital conference rooms or on weekend bike trips, Ms. Sandberg has been building an alternate networking group of Silicon Valley women. For about seven years, since she was a Google executive, she has held catered monthly dinner parties at her home for a group of several dozen women. Guest speakers have included the feminist and author Gloria Steinem; Steve Ballmer, the C.E.O. of Microsoft; and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, according to three people who have attended the dinners but spoke on condition that they not be identified out of respect for Ms. Sandberg's privacy. Ms. Sandberg recently invited Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri to attend as a speaker.
''I expected to see a lot of women in St. John suits and expensive purses and was pleasantly surprised when it was anything but that,'' Senator McCaskill said. ''Women had been included that were in the infancy of their careers, her kids were running around, it was very low key. It was clear that she's the kind of role model that young women are looking for, especially in the tech sector.''
FOR all her roles and titles, Ms. Sandberg is about to add one more: billionaire. According to Facebook's filing last week, Ms. Sandberg made nearly $31 million last year, including base salary, bonus and $30.5 million in stock awards. She owns 1.9 million shares in the company and an additional 39 million in restricted stock options. If Facebook goes public at a valuation of $100 billion -- which Wall Street sees as a possibility -- her stake could be worth as much as $1.6 billion. She would rank among the richest self-made women in America, above Meg Whitman ($1.3 billion), but below Oprah ($2.7 billion), according to Forbes.
Many wonder whether Ms. Sandberg might reach beyond Silicon Valley and into the world of politics. That was the buzz at Davos.
Senator McCaskill, for one, says Ms. Sandberg would be great in politics. ''But for now,'' the senator added, ''she's doing women a great service in the private sector.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about Sheryl K. Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, erroneously included one person among those attending the recent World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where Ms. Sandberg was a co-chair. Although Bono has been at past forums there, he was not at the event this year. The article also misstated the surname of Facebook's head of platform and mobile marketing. She is Katie Mitic, not Mitnic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Facebook's No. 2 executive, Sheryl Sandberg, will reap a fortune in its stock offering. And she hasn't stopped telling the world how women should take responsibility for their careers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTOINE ANTONIOL/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU1)
Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook, with Jeffrey Immelt, above left, chairman of General Electric, and above right, with Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, left, and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York. Ms. Sandberg, described as warm and down to earth, has recruited women to Facebook and helped advertisers engage with women, its most active users. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
EDUARDO MUNOZ/REUTERS)
 President Obama greeted Ms. Sandberg in the White House in January. Friends wonder if she will one day run for public office. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WOMEN (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); FACEBOOK INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (73%); RELIGION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (94%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (89%); JUSTIN BIEBER (79%); BILL GATES (72%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); JEFFREY IMMELT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (87%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



213 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2100 words

HEADLINE: Jubilees And Living Histories

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
IN April 1962 the Beach Boys recorded ''Surfin' Safari'' and ''409'' at Western Recorders in Los Angeles; the demo tape soon became their first single on Capitol Records. The following month El Gran Combo formed out of the remains of Rafael Cortijo y Su Combo, a brilliant band that had come to symbolize the new Puerto Rican popular music: black, working-class, Cuban-influenced, tight and urban but rustic at the middle. In July Mick Jagger, Keith Richards and Brian Jones gave their first performances, as the core of a band called the Rollin' Stones, at both the Marquee and the Ealing Jazz Club in London. And in November the Chieftains, a group of virtuosos who sought to play traditional Irish music in a new way -- in precise, small-group arrangements -- started rehearsing at the house of Paddy Moloney, the group's leader.
These are some of the bands positioned to turn 50 in public this year and promote their golden jubilees down to the ground, through tours or new recordings or both. (All but the Stones have announced their plans.) 
Your automatic response might be the fact-checking ones: ''Fifty years? Is that correct? How many original members remain?'' The second might be emotional: ''They're only in it for the money,'' or ''Good for them; they don't want to stop.'' The third -- and this is where the response gets interesting -- may be: ''That's quite a list. Wonder what they have in common?''
These are among the first living pop bands to turn 50. Popular musicians have become a different species, healthier and more adaptable. So have their audiences. (So have their lawyers and publicists.) There was a time when pop was predicated on the notion of being disposable; listeners revised their tastes quickly. Now we keep our teenage ears into retirement age.
But we also listen more broadly too, with more power to contextualize, because of music's easy availability online, and because pop artists are putting more broadly referential art in front of us. So as an experiment, at least, let's respond to the 50th anniversaries of these four bands differently from how they might like us to: not by seeing them as singular phenomena but as interconnected.
The groups began amid redefinition, industrialization, liberation: 1962 was a particularly rich-soil year. For the Chieftains it meant the lessening of Ireland's economic and cultural isolation. For the Stones it meant teenagers with spending money: Britain's post-austerity explosion of style. For the Beach Boys it meant California culture, when hot rods, surfing and summer kicks entered the mainstream. And for El Gran Combo, staying put while many fellow Puerto Rican musicians had moved to New York, it meant a rapidly modernizing island, and a fully formed Afro-Puerto Rican dance-band music, playing to a huge and growing diaspora.
They've all been seen as standard-bearers, if not for an entire culture, in the case of El Gran Combo and the Chieftains, at least for a sound or a disposition. They're all, effectively, scholars and popularizers. They've had to negotiate nearly compulsory changes of style without abandoning the audiences that value them most. And they've all been playing both sides of the fence, working both at authenticity and, occasionally, its opposite -- whether that be ersatz country music (the Rolling Stones' ''Far Away Eyes''), self-indulgent surrealism (parts of the Beach Boys' ''Smile''), American pop with a Puerto Rican accent and boogaloo rhythm (El Gran Combo's ''Goin' Out of My Head'') or full-on crossovers like the Chieftains' 1995 album ''Long Black Veil,'' which includes a jam with the Stones on ''The Rocky Road to Dublin,'' a jig that briefly breaks out into ''Jumpin' Jack Flash.''
The Beach Boys and the Stones both played on the ''T.A.M.I. Show'' in 1964, a live-performance feature film shot at the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium in Los Angeles. And though they obviously sound different on the surface, the Beach Boys' set, starting with ''Surfin' USA,'' had its own indirect connections to El Gran Combo. That song used the surf-rock beat, a sped-up cousin of the Afro-Cuban habanera; it had a nearly constant vocal chorus with high-pitched harmonies (Brian Wilson sang in a falsetto, like Eddie Perez, the saxophonist and background singer in El Gran Combo); it used hard breaks and dropouts to drive up the energy of dancers. And it drew its power from the drums -- Dennis Wilson's rude kick-drum and snare beats were rawer, but not so different in impact, from the attack of the percussionists Roberto Roena, Martin Quinones and Milton Correa in El Gran Combo songs from the same period, like ''Meneito Me.''
The Beach Boys built on sophisticated technique they had studied from afar -- the harmonies of the Midwestern vocal quartet the Four Freshmen -- just as El Gran Combo, as younger musicians in Puerto Rico, studied the arrangements of the Cuban son they heard on the radio and from records. In song after song both bands celebrated women or their homeland, and sometimes the two subjects at once: the Beach Boys had ''California Girls,'' El Gran Combo ''Mujer Boricua.''
Like El Gran Combo -- and the Stones and Chieftains too -- the Beach Boys weren't necessarily pioneers of anything. As far as surf music was concerned, Dick Dale had released ''Let's Go Trippin' '' about six months before ''Surfin' Safari.'' That was a regional hit, but ''Surfin' Safari'' broke nationally. Eventually the group's songwriting brain, Brian Wilson, found a way to merge the sounds he learned from the Everly Brothers, Chuck Berry and the Four Freshmen into a fanciful, interior, harmony-obsessed sound world, in projects like ''Pet Sounds'' and ''Smile.''
El Gran Combo, led by the pianist Rafael Ithier, was the regular band on the Puerto Rican television show ''El Show de Las 12,'' starting in 1963. Cortijo y Su Combo had started in 1955, one year after the beginning of television in Puerto Rico, and its appearances on ''La Taberna India'' had helped break down the kind of institutional racism on the island that kept black bands out of high-visibility jobs.
There had been black Puerto Rican pop stars before but no important black band, and none who had so effectively adapted the old Puerto Rican bomba rhythms into a dance-band context. So when the Cortijo band ended after a drug bust, and Mr. Ithier, the pianist, formed his new group with all the members but Cortijo and the lead singer, Ismael Rivera, El Gran Combo's mandate was clear: continue the same formula and expand.
Also in the ''T.A.M.I. Show,'' in mismatched suits, the Stones played ''I'm All Right,'' a repetition song held down with a Keith Richards guitar ostinato not too far in function, if you like, from an Afro-Cuban tumbao. Mr. Jagger held four maracas, the basic unit of Afro-Latin percussion, and shook them, two in each hand: first as a kind of proxy for his still body, then as a kind of ritual instrument to provoke the audience as he roamed the stage.
The young record collectors in the Rolling Stones drew their inspiration from black American singers and bands that hadn't penetrated their own culture yet, including Bo Diddley, whose records, with their mixture of blues and Antillean rhythm, probably gave Mr. Jagger the idea about maracas. But their greater act of liberation may have been their invention of the perfectly two-faced rock band: pious toward its sources, vulgar toward its audience, amped up and on the hustle. ''When they started playing as an interval band at the Marquee,'' the British writer Nik Cohn recalled in a recent conversation, ''there was a lot of talk that they were trash.''
This was in contrast to Cyril Davies, the tradition-minded harmonica player 10 years their senior, whom London blues aficionados regarded as the real deal. ''And though the Stones were in love with Muddy Waters and Jimmy Reed,'' Mr. Cohn continued, ''it was implicit from the beginning that they were not averse to money.'' It has been ever so.
On the surface the Chieftains were less like the others. They didn't sing and had no sex appeal; they sat down when they played and used a bodhran, a single frame-drum, instead of a drum set. Like the Stones they studied their sources; unlike the Stones they wanted to make an oral music more streamlined and precise, less boisterous. But as with El Gran Combo they began as an ambitious defection from another important group, Ceoltoiri Chualann. In that ensemble and on their own, they aimed to move traditional Irish music away from the common models, like the ceilidh dance band, with parts played in unison -- which, with its violins and flutes, has a distant Afro-Caribbean analogue in the Cuban charanga orchestra. And they got the audience they sought: they were embraced by the new British bohemia. (The Stones loved their early records.)
The Beach Boys -- down to one original member in recent years, Mike Love, the lead singer -- have just reunited with Brian Wilson and Al Jardine. They've had steady work through the years at wineries, resorts, casinos and the Reagan Library, but now their great lost album ''Smile,'' officially released last year -- 44 years off schedule -- may yet be understood as one of the greatest pop records ever made, a puzzle of mini-episodes. Their influence ripples in strange directions; their more experimental records lie under the conceptual, big-melody freakery of the indie-rock band Animal Collective, and it's only a short hop from there to nonmacho stadium pop like Coldplay's ''Mylo Xyloto.'' They will begin a 50-date tour including Brian Wilson, starting in April at the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival, and record new material this year.
El Gran Combo, with two original members, performed more than 260 times last year and has never stopped recording. Four of its albums went to No. 1 on the Billboard Tropical Album chart over the last decade. In 2012 the band will tour again: 50 dates, beginning in May. Through the efforts of both Mr. Ithier and its current pianist and musical director, Willie Sotelo, its records, like 2009's ''Sin Salsa No Hay Paraiso,'' are still excellent: precise and strong, even if their broadening of style stopped in the '80s, before salsa romantic and reggaeton emerged. (The key to longevity, Mr. Ithier said in a phone interview last week, is ''discipline and organization.'') As the scholar Frances Aparicio wrote in her book ''Listening to Salsa,'': ''Among Puerto Ricans,'' El Gran Combo ''is not a traditional group but musical tradition itself.''
Likewise, the Chieftains ended up embodying the roots-music history they started out studying, through constant availability for film soundtracks and endless collaborations. (Mr. Moloney once described them as more a corporation than a band, perhaps jokingly, perhaps not.) Their new record, with a corral of rootsy and indie guests including the Carolina Chocolate Drops and the Decemberists, comes out Feb. 21 on Hear/Concord. They'll tour the United States in February and March.
And the Stones' long-term success has been the most striking: their latest album, ''A Bigger Bang,'' from 2005, sold a million copies without a hit single, and their last set of shows, in 2005-7, was the second-highest grossing tour of its kind in history, with more than four and a half million tickets sold. Meanwhile, like the Beach Boys, they have parallel lives as their younger selves: previously unreleased studio outtakes and live performances keep tumbling out, including the recent reissue of 1978's ''Some Girls'' and the appearance late last year of stonesarchive.com, where the band is making available old concert tapes like the 1973 ''Brussels Affair.''
This is what a 50-year old band looks like: a dynastic machine, in some cases more symbolic than real, producing new material from the present and the past simultaneously, collaborative and flexible, an entity much bigger than its music; a well of history and a blank slate for representing the ideals of the culture. We'll see much more of this. In the future plenty of new bands will be willing to keep standing when they turn 50. But whether anyone wants to prop them up may depend on whether other years are as propititious for a band to be born in as 1962.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 5, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A cover article this weekend about four bands that formed in 1962, including the Rolling Stones and the Beach Boys, misidentifies which song the Beach Boys opened their set with at the ''T.A.M.I. Show'' in 1964. It was ''Surfin' USA,'' not ''Surfin' Safari.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM TOP, JOHN HOPPY HOPKINS/REDFERNS, VIA GETTY IMAGES
CAPITOL PHOTO ARCHIVES
GAB ARCHIVE/REDFERNS, VIA GETTY IMAGES
GEMA RECORDS)(AR1)
Right, from top: Mick Jagger, still plying his trade with the Rolling Stones in 2006
the Chieftains in 2000
El Gran Combo at the Puerto Rican Day Parade in New York in 2011. Far right, El Gran Combo's first album, from 1962. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS
NICKY J. SIMS/REDFERNS, VIA GETTY IMAGES
DAVID CORTES/VIDA STUDIO)
Above from top, the Stones in 1963
the Chieftains in the late '60s or early '70s
the Beach Boys in 1962. Right, Brian Wilson at the Beacon Theater in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TERRY O'NEILL/GETTY IMAGES
COURTESY OF PADDY MOLONEY
CAPITOL PHOTO ARCHIVES
 MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR24) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY CHEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); LAWYERS (50%)

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (72%); KEITH RICHARDS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (76%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



214 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: 450 Million Years Ago, Hell's Kitchen Earned Its Name

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: We all know that our skyscrapers are built on bedrock, even if they have to reach down a way to find it. But not many of us know that a few bedrock outcrops are visible in mid-Manhattan. 

 BODY:
"That's ancestral North America out there," said Sidney Horenstein, the geologist and environmental educator emeritus of the American Museum of Natural History, gesturing broadly toward the towers of mid-Manhattan. "Here, we're on this exotic continent that collided with it."
Exotic is the word. The rock outcrop that emerges like the tip of a geological iceberg from the children's playground in DeWitt Clinton Park, at West 52nd Street and 12th Avenue, is an astonishing work of natural sculpture; utterly sensuous - almost sensual in spots - with smooth curves and bubbly folds and veinous striations that look too organic to have been formed of schist, gneiss and amphibolite.
Still, that's not what Mr. Horenstein means when he uses the word "exotic." This outcrop near the Hudson River is what geologists call an exotic terrane, a fragment of the crust from one tectonic plate that has been sutured onto another and therefore differs in its composition from the surrounding rock. The only other visible example of this particular terrane in New York City, Mr. Horenstein said, is at Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx. 
The collision that grafted this terrane onto North America occurred roughly 450 million years ago, he said. (That would explain why I don't recall covering it for The Times. I was still a news clerk back then.)
What prompted the meeting with Mr. Horenstein is that bedrock is back in the news, thanks in part to a Jan. 17 post by Matt Chaban of The New York Observer: "Uncanny Valley: The Real Reason There Are No Skyscrapers in the Middle of Manhattan."
For many years, the "valley" in New York's skyline has been explained to some degree by the presence or absence of bedrock close enough to street level that towers could be anchored to it. Christopher J. Schuberth described the phenomenon in "The Geology of New York City and Environs" (1968):
The skyscrapers of New York City are clustered together into the midtown group, where the bedrock is within several feet of the surface, and the downtown group, where the bedrock again reappears to within 40 feet of the surface near Wall Street.
The Observer highlighted a study published late last year in The Journal of Economic History by Jason Barr, an associate professor at Rutgers University; Troy Tassier, an associate professor at Fordham University; and Rossen Trendafilov, a teaching fellow at Fordham. "Our results showed that bedrock had, at most, a small effect on the formation of the skyline," the authors concluded. "Real estate developers built skyscrapers to be near already established centers of commerce, where public transportation was easily accessible, and away from slums and manufacturing districts."
Whatever its role in urban development, I wanted to find out more about the bedrock just a few feet underfoot in Midtown and Downtown, beginning with: can you see any of it outside of parkland? Mr. Horenstein said he knew of no outcrops in Lower Manhattan but that it was still visible in a few spots around mid-Manhattan, including some exposures along the Amtrak rail cut paralleling 10th and 11th Avenues.
Off I went, armed with just enough rudimentary information to be dangerous, like the fact that the three principal rock types underlying New York City are Fordham gneiss, Manhattan schist and Inwood marble. Wow! Could that chalky, crumbly, whitish-gray patch just north of the 37th Street overpass be a little-known vein of Inwood marble?
Mr. Horenstein assumed the benevolent smile of one who's been asked such questions before. Many times before. "No," he said patiently. "It's cement." He identified the rest of it as Manhattan schist, manifesting little excitement as he did so.
The exotic terrane, on the other, elicited much affectionate perusal. "It's one of my favorites," Mr. Horenstein allowed. That's no small compliment from a man who earned his bachelor's degree in geology from Hunter College in 1958 and spent 45 years on the staff of the American Museum of Natural History.
He explained that the outcrop was made of metamorphic rock that was formed 15 to 20 miles beneath the earth's surface. Even though the layers were once horizontal, the tremendous pressures exerted on them were such that they emerged in a vertical array, with folds so tight they almost look like ripples in soft fabric rather than unforgiving rock. Mr. Horenstein pointed out areas where the gneiss and the schist had deformed around the harder strata of amphibolite, as a viscous liquid might make its way slowly around a dam.
"Think of layers of wax that are just ," Mr. Horenstein said. "Even when it's weathered, you can see all those convolutions." The marvels continued, as a granitic substance filled in the cracks after the deformation, creating delicate traceries. Retreating glacial ice finally gave the whole thing a terrific polish that endures to this day.
Mr. Horenstein and I met on this outcrop of an exotic continent to talk about skyscrapers. But as our focus was drawn more and more into the rocky folds, the skyscrapers of modern New York seemed very distant.

        
Prediction: This Groundhog Will Never Change
        
A Little Visitor Hovers Awhile Longer
        
Out of the Kitchen and Into a Bit of Trouble
        
Seeking a Million Trees, With at Least That Many Stories
        
Hummingbird Makes a Year-End Visit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE (68%); RESEARCH REPORTS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); SLUM DWELLINGS (61%); WRITERS (60%) American Museum of Natural History; Amtrak; bedrock; Clinton; geology; Hells Kitchen; parks; Geology; DeWitt Clinton Park (NYC); Horenstein, Sidney; Building Blocks; Buildings and Landmarks; Environment; Local History; Manhattan

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (93%) American Museum of Natural History

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%) DeWitt Clinton Park (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



215 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: Facebook Users Ask, 'Where's Our Cut?'

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Without the free content created by its 850 million users, Facebook would surely not be on the verge of a multibillion-dollar initial public offering. 

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO - By my calculation, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's founder and chief executive, owes me about $50.
Without me, and the other 844,999,999 people poking, liking and sharing on the site, Facebook would look like a scene from the postapocalyptic movie "The Day After Tomorrow": bleak, desolate and really quite sad. (Or MySpace, if that is easier to imagine.) Facebook surely would never be valued at anything close to $100 billion, which it very well could be in its coming initial public offering.
In the company's S-1 filing, submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission this week, Facebook boasts about its statistics: annually, people "like" one trillion things; 91 billion photos are uploaded; half a billion people use Facebook on mobile phones; and hundreds of millions are annoyingly "poked."
So all this leaves me with a question: Where's my cut? I helped build this thing, too. Facebook laid the foundation of the house and put in the plumbing, but we put up the walls, picked out the furniture, painted and hung photos, and invited everyone over for dinner parties.
So why am I asking for money from Facebook and not Google? Although there have been hundreds of technology-related I.P.O.'s over the last decade, Facebook is the first real social-media public offering, where the content on the site is entirely created by its users. (The closest, LinkedIn, had additional business models, including premium payment subscriptions.) "The idea that a business benefits from social interaction is not so strange or new. A lot of cafes and small restaurants will let people hang out because they attract other people," said Yannis M. Ioannides, a professor of economics at Tufts University. "What is unusual and new is that Facebook takes access to information about these people to make its business more powerful." He added: "The proprietor of a cafe doesn't use personal information about me and my friends to make money."
Mr. Ioannides suggests that Facebook and other social Web sites could create a two-way financial street. Facebook, for example, could pay the people who create content on the site. The company could then make money by matching the content with advertising, as it does now. As an alternative for more private individuals, people could pay to use Facebook if it promised not to sift through their personal information. This way, everyone wins.
I for one would feel more comfortable with Facebook looking through my phonebook, wallet and underwear drawer if I knew I was going to get paid for it.
Jaron Lanier, one of the deepest thinkers on the impacts of technology on society and an "innovator in residence" at the Annenberg School at the University of Southern California, worries about companies like Facebook and Twitter not paying their users while the people lucky enough to work for them become rich from free user-generated content. Mr. Lanier says that as more money flows to those who build these networks, society distorts and divides. Those without the skills needed in this new economy - other than to tweet and post pictures - can fall further behind economically.
"The value comes from the people; none of it is self-created," Mr. Lanier said in an interview. He warns that if society doesn't devise economic solutions to social networks, there could be "serious social blowback."
Sure, $50 might not seem like a lot of money right now, but if Facebook continues to grow as it has in the past, its $4 billion in annual revenue could be in the tens of billions of dollars in a few years. If that happens, I should be expecting a dividend.
So, Mr. Zuckerberg, feel free to message me on Facebook, and I'll give you my address so you can send me a check - unless, as I suspect, you already know where I live.

        
In a Switch, Google Plus Now Allows Pseudonyms
        
Google Adds Posts From Its Social Network to Search Results
        
Path Tries Again With a Wider Network
        
Regulators Say Social Network Violated Child Privacy Law
        
Zuckerberg and Sandberg Discuss Facebook's Future

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Facebook; social networking; Initial Public Offerings; Social Networking (Internet); Facebook Inc; Internet; Social

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) Facebook Inc

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



216 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Lies, Damned Lies, and Politics

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: How to deal with inconvenient numbers. 

 BODY:
Recent facts have not been kind to the political right. A better-than-expected jobs report; a renewed focus on inequality, driven both by CBO research and by the gift of Mitt Romney's candidacy. What to do?
The answer is to throw a bunch of bogus numbers at the issues, in the hope that something sticks, or at least that the discussion becomes confused.
First, about that jobs report: all the usual suspects have jumped on the routine BLS population adjustment to claim that the numbers were cooked. The real story here is that the BLS estimates unemployment based on a monthly survey; this tells us what fraction of workers are unemployed. To turn that into a number of unemployed, the BLS estimates total working-age population; but it updates those estimates only once a year. So there's usually a step up or down in the totals each January, signifying nothing.
Back in the Bush years there were a lot of bogus claims of huge job growth reflecting a step up in the population numbers. Now we have Rush Limbaugh, Fox, etc., claiming that a step down somehow implies fake calculations. Still not true. And the thing that makes this so tiring is that they keep trotting out the same old bogosity, no matter how many times it has been refuted.
Next up, inequality denial. The Census Gini figure hasn't moved much since the early 1990s -- but as Jon Chait says, we know perfectly well why: it's because Census numbers are top-coded, that is, cut off at high income levels, and the big gains have come way up the scale.
How do we know that? Partly, just look around: walk around New York's pricier neighborhoods and tell me that inequality hasn't increased. But also, income tax data. Here's what the IRS tells us about income shares at the top:
INCOME SHARES
Notice that the rise is almost entirely concentrated in the top 1 percent; even the bottom half of the top 10 percent went nowhere, which tells you once again that this is about the 1 versus the 99, not the top 20 versus the lower class. And yes, the data are overwhelming support for a rise in inequality.
Oh, and Chait tells us that the usual suspects are also rolling out the old "the rich in America pay more taxes than the rich in other countries" thing. Yes -- because the American rich are much, much richer.
In a way it's almost a relief to find these guys coming up with new fallacies. Brad DeLong catches the WSJ looking at estimates that federal workers get 2 percent more salary and 48 percent more benefits than private-sector workers -- and concluding that this means that they are overpaid by 50 percent.
The important point to make here is that all these bogus numbers are coming from seemingly authoritative sources -- Fox News, which is a big organization, the WSJ editorial page, the American Enterprise Institute. You could not imagine a similar level of statistical dishonesty from, say, The Nation, or Washington Monthly, or EPI.
This is what I mean when I say that the left and right aren't symmetric. People of all persuasions lie; but the right has a whole institutional structure of lying that has no counterpart on the left.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CENSUS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



217 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Looks Ahead to 'Super Tuesday'

BYLINE: BRIAN KNOWLTON


HIGHLIGHT: Despite his weak showing in Nevada, Newt Gingrich says he is well-placed to do well in the March 6 "Super Tuesday" contests. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Newt Gingrich on Sunday brushed aside his second consecutive lopsided loss, saying that by the time "Super Tuesday" rolled around on March 6, his struggling campaign would find itself in "much more favorable territory."
Mr. Gingrich, a former House speaker, finished second in the Nevada caucuses on Saturday, just ahead of Representative Ron Paul of Texas, but far back of Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts. "This was a state he won last time, and he won it this time," Mr. Gingrich said of Mr. Romney.
He said Sunday that by drawing an even clearer contrast between what he described as his own "bold" vision for the country and the "timid" path of Mr. Romney, voters would begin seeing him as the only Republican who was tough enough to go head-to-head against President Obama.
"Our goal is to get to Super Tuesday, where we're in much more favorable territory," Mr. Gingrich said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press." He said he was well-placed to win in his home state of Georgia and other Southern states. "We believe that by the time Texas is over, we'll be very, very competitive in delegate count," he said. The Texas primary is April 3.
Rick Santorum said Sunday that his immediate focus was on the states holding contests this month. Without trying to explain his fourth-placed showing in Nevada, where Mr. Romney, a Mormon, was helped both by the operation he put in place four years ago and the sizable number of Mormon voters, Mr. Santorum said that "now we're getting into states where people don't have the natural advantage."
He predicted strong showings in Minnesota and Colorado on Tuesday. "This race is a long way from being over," Mr. Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator, said on "Fox News Sunday."
Mr. Gingrich has not written off the contests between now and Super Tuesday. He planned to head to Colorado on Monday and later to Minnesota. But his campaign also faces a cash problem: it is about $600,000 in debt.
Mr. Gingrich used his "Meet the Press" appearance to pummel Mr. Romney, focusing his comment last week about not caring about the very poor because they had a safety net.
That statement, Mr. Gingrich said, belied a fundamental conservative belief in helping the poor work their way out of poverty so that they do not become dependent on government assistance.
"The safety net in many ways has become a spider web," Mr. Gingrich said. "It traps some at the bottom."
He also criticized Mr. Obama for, he said, taking too much credit for the job growth announced on Friday.
Real unemployment, and underemployment, was a far worse problem than the numbers indicated, he said. "It's still a very dangerous, dismal situation," he added.
Mr. Santorum took aim at Mr. Gingrich, saying that the former House speaker simply had not shown the ability to run a successful presidential candidacy.
Mr. Gingrich, he said, is "really not up to the task, with the money and the resources and the organization he had."

        
Romney Talks Economy in Nevada
        
Gingrich Says Romney Is 'Little Food Stamp'
        
Trump Endorses Romney in a 7-Minute Appearance
        
Nevada Poll Gives Romney Wide Lead
        
Sharron Angle Endorses Santorum

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); RELIGION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%) gingrich; Nevada; Presidential Election of 2012; Sunday talk shows; super tuesday; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; The Caucus

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); RON PAUL (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



218 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Blankfein to Speak Out for Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The Human Rights Campaign has recruited Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs to be its first national corporate spokesman for same-sex marriage. 

 BODY:
Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief of Goldman Sachs who has become a lightning rod for Wall Street critics, might seem an unlikely advocate for same-sex marriage. But his credentials - a public figure in a conservative industry - could make him a powerful voice for that cause.
The Human Rights Campaign, a national organization that promotes equal rights for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people, has persuaded Mr. Blankfein to be its first national corporate spokesman for same-sex marriage, an issue that will come up for a legislative vote in several states this year, including Washington and Maryland. Fred Sainz, an executive with the Human Rights Campaign, said the organization sought Mr. Blankfein, in part, because he is "an unexpected messenger."
 "Lloyd Blankfein is not someone average Americans would think is going to support marriage equality," Mr. Sainz said. "The green visor crowd is not typically associated with socially progressive policies, and this is further proof that a diversity of Americans are coming to the same conclusion."
With this national campaign, Mr. Blankfein is stepping onto a prominent and politically charged stage - at a time when his public persona is suffering. In recent years, he has been pilloried for outsize pay packages and rewarding the type of risk-taking that led to the financial crisis.
As the tumult fades, industry watchers are wondering about his second act. Mr. Blankfein, who has run Goldman since 2006, is one of the longest-tenured chief executives on Wall Street, and speculation is mounting that he will hand over the reins to a deputy this year.
Although he has long supported same-sex marriage, his move could be seen as a public relations play, albeit one with unclear results. The affiliation with a liberal organization could also alienate conservatives who do business with the firm.
Through a spokesman, Mr. Blankfein declined to comment.
Paul A. Argenti, a professor of corporate communication at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, says Mr. Blankfein's decision isn't likely to have any positive impact on the reputation of the firm - or Mr. Blankfein.
"If you are a Goldman employee and you are gay or contemplating coming out, this is great," he said. But for Goldman and Mr. Blankfein, the issue of same-sex marriage has nothing to do with what Goldman Sachs does. "If Mr. Blankfein was taking a radical stand on pay you could say wow, that's big. But equality is simply not an issue you associate with Goldman."
Still, the campaign is sure to turn heads on Wall Street, which despite having made progress on equality issues over the last decade, is still considered to be a male-dominated, testosterone-driven place.
Behind the scenes, Mr. Blankfein has long been a supporter of same-sex marriage. Last year, he signed a letter urging state lawmakers to vote for a bill legalizing same-sex marriage and encouraged other chief executives to do the same. He also called lawmakers directly on the matter. The New York Legislature passed the law last summer.
Under Mr. Blankfein's guidance, Goldman has also pushed employment policies that promote equality. It reimburses employees for the extra taxes they pay on domestic partner benefits. In 2002, the company made headlines for offering gender reassignment operations to employees.
At a dinner on Saturday in New York the Human Rights Campaign awarded Goldman its corporate equality award.
Now, Mr. Blankfein is taking his support one step further by speaking out on the issue.
"Most of the firms on the Fortune 500 list have all the right policies but when you ask them to take a public stance 99 percent are not willing to do it," said Todd G. Sears, a former Merrill Lynch stockbroker turned diversity advisor, who runs an industry group called Out on the Street. 
The Human Rights Campaign approached Mr. Blankfein in November through a gay executive at Goldman, and he was immediately receptive to the idea, according to people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak publicly. As part of a national effort, Mr. Blankfein, wearing a crisp white shirt and red-patterned tie, appears in 32-second Web spot intended to drum up support and donations.
"I'm Lloyd Blankfein, chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs, and I support marriage equality," Mr. Blankfein says in the spot, which was recorded at the bank's headquarters in downtown Manhattan. "America's corporations learned long ago that equality is just good business and is the right thing to do."
For years, the organization has attracted a notable list of representatives, including Barbara Bush, the daughter of the former President George W. Bush, and the hockey player Sean Avery. Steve Tisch, a businessman and co-owner of the New York Giants, took part in a campaign to legalize gay marriage in New York last year.
But Mr. Blankfein's participation is part of a new national effort by the Human Rights Campaign to enlist atypical advocates. One set of videos highlighted prominent black Americans, a demographic with especially low support for same-sex marriage. Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark and the comedian and actress Mo'Nique were among the African-Americans who participated. Mr. Blankfein is the first corporate chieftain to represent the organization.

        
Goldman Gives Blankfein $7 Million Stock Award
        
It's Goldman Bonus Day

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (96%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); MARRIAGE (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); COHABITATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); MEN (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Goldman Sachs; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Human Rights Campaign; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (94%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Human Rights Campaign

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (96%) Blankfein, Lloyd C

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



219 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: February 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1788 words

HEADLINE: Debt Splits the Left

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: How much should Democrats care about budget deficits? 

 BODY:
Does the national debt - which has now reached a cumulative total of $15.4 trillion - pose a serious threat to the financial viability of the United States?
This is not only a debate between the left and the right; it is also a debate that pits the two wings of the Democratic party against each other, the center against the left. At one end of the intraparty spectrum lie those Democrats who consider debt reduction a matter of key importance; at the other end are those who consider a focus on the debt ill-advised, a result of faulty analysis.
The very fact that government spending will be a key topic for the 2012 election creates a political hazard for the Democratic Party.
Among conservatives and Republicans, there is general agreement that budget deficits and the national debt must be addressed by cutting government spending, not by raising taxes. John B. Taylor, an economist at Stanford who is a favorite of Speaker John Boehner and a leading adviser to Republican presidential candidates, writes that: 
the economy is being held back by high deficit spending and related policy uncertainties. The large deficits are causing the federal debt to explode, raising concerns about how it will be financed.
Instead of more stimulus spending, Taylor contends, "the best economic stimulus would be for the government to set a clear path now to reduce the deficit and to bring down the debt in the future."
A 2012 election agenda dominated by the specter of debt is ideal for conservatives seeking to shrink the welfare state. It creates an optimal environment for Grover Norquist and his anti-tax group, Americans for Tax Reform, to operate in. Norquist has famously committed himself to whittling government "down to the size where we can drown it in the bathtub."
Among Democrats there is, of course, no talk of drowning the government, nor is there unanimity about what we should do about the debt.
The influential centrist faction within the Democratic establishment that dominated during the Clinton administration is made up of relatively progressive economists and professional budget experts. This faction believes that the national debt poses a serious threat which demands austerity policies. Such policies can be delayed until the economy stabilizes, these economists argue, but they must be implemented in the not-too-distant future.
Isabel V. Sawhill, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who writes frequently on economic issues, describes herself as "a fiscal hawk" in an email to The Times, but pointedly notes that she:
strongly disagrees with those who want to begin an austerity program while the economy is still fragile. We should enact a deficit reduction package with both new revenues and entitlement reform ASAP but have it phase in slowly so as not to undermine the recovery.
Along similar lines, Laura Tyson, a professor at the Haas School of Business in Berkeley and the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Clinton, writes that Congress should enact "a long-run deficit-reduction plan now" but defer the start "until the economy is near full employment."
Robert D. Reischauer, until last month the president of the liberal-leaning Urban Institute and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, provided a nuanced analysis of issues surrounding the deficit and debt in an emailed response to The Times, an analysis worth reading in full.
Reischauer notes that those who have promised to "'pay down' or 'reduce' the national debt" are pursuing "an absurd and unattainable objective for the short or even intermediate term - meaning the next seven or so years. Paying down the debt would require us to run budget surpluses which would be fiscally foolish and programmatically disruptive."
Instead, Reischauer suggests that in the short term, "we should enact policies that, for the next one-and-a-half to two years, provide significant stimulus, and over years three-to-10 both reduce spending and increase taxes." The goal, according to Reischauer, should be to moderate, but not eliminate, annual deficits. He points out that the national debt fell from 109 percent of gross domestic product in 1946 to 24 percent in 1974 even though "we ran deficits in 22 of the 28 intervening years."
The combination of near-term stimulus and medium-term austerity should be enacted in a single legislative package, Reischauer proposes,
sooner rather than later, because if we don't start to do it under our terms, that is on our timetable and in our way, market forces - international institutions or our creditors - eventually will step in and dictate the corrective policies we must take.
American dependence on foreign lenders has resulted in the slow but steady "ceding" of "our sovereignty," Reischauer writes, adding:
I am very pessimistic. The American people don't understand either the seriousness of the problem or the size of the adjustments that will have to be made to put us on a sustainable path. And all of the incentives facing politicians work against both depicting the situation realistically or endorsing policies that would significantly address the problem.
Those closer to the left end of the Democratic spectrum - including netroots activists, progressive policy intellectuals and those with ties to organized labor - believe that Democrats who support austerity measures have been co-opted as unwitting collaborators of Republicans who want to decimate government-funded social insurance and other redistributive programs, Republicans like Paul Ryan, Chairman of the House Budget Committee, and Eric Cantor, the House majority leader.
In a Nov. 7, 2011 article in the Nation, Ari Berman describes Democratic advocates of deficit reduction as part of an "influential and aggressive austerity class," the success of which explains:
a central paradox in American politics over the past two years: how, in the midst of a massive unemployment crisis-when it's painfully obvious that not enough jobs are being created and the public overwhelmingly wants policy-makers to focus on creating them-did the deficit emerge as the most pressing issue in the country? And why, when the global evidence clearly indicates that austerity measures will raise unemployment and hinder, not accelerate, growth, do advocates of austerity retain such distinction today?
James Galbraith, an economist at the University of Texas, contends that the issue of deficit spending has been blown out of proportion by those whose focus on austerity blinds them to the damage inflicted by cuts in Social Security and Medicare. Instead of conducting major surgery on federal spending programs, Galbraith argues that "it is possible to run a low and even modestly negative real interest rate on the public debt at a low rate of inflation, and therefore to sustain quite a large primary deficit, essentially indefinitely and trouble free."
Galbraith is optimistic about future economic growth and sees no need for spending cuts in Social Security or Medicare. "Let the economy recover through time, and do not worry if the debt-to-GDP ratio rises for a while," he advises.
Jared Bernstein, former chief economist and economic adviser to Vice President Joe Biden and now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, argues that many politicians are using public anxiety over the deficit to justify ideological attacks on government:
We should not lose sight of the political and ideological motivation against deficit spending. In an era when tax hikes are verboten, deficit reduction can be achieved only through spending cuts, and it has thus become a way of arguing for less government.
Bernstein rejects the argument that the deficit has ballooned largely because of domestic social spending. He contends instead that the major factors pushing up the deficit were the Bush tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003, at a cost of $3.6 trillion over 10 years and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Viewed from a purely political vantage point, the presence of budget deficits and the national debt as campaign issues give Republicans a strategic advantage. The concentration on deficits and debt establishes a political climate in which voters become more receptive to conservative messages that portray Democrats as extravagant spenders and taxers, as the party that uses government to finance transfer payments from a largely white taxpaying middle class to a more heavily minority poor population dependent on government support - a charge that carries the implication, never far from the surface, that the Democrats are taking "your" money and giving it to "them."
Newt Gingrich has been explicit in this species of anti-Democratic critique, describing President Obama as "the best food stamp president in history."
Mitt Romney takes up the same theme, with more subtlety, warning that Obama and the Democratic party are fostering a European-style welfare state with a growing "contingent of long-term jobless, dependent on government benefits for survival."
In 2010, the debt-and-deficit issue, driven by the Tea Party, devastated the Democratic Party, turning majority power back to Republicans in the House, who picked up 63 seats. Going into the 2012 election, it is still a central issue. The Pew Research Center has found public concern over the deficit continues to grow:
No matter what the merits are of the opposing positions within the Democratic coalition on the debt and deficits, a divided Democratic party is in a weakened position to counter Republican assaults on the issue of red ink. This is a vulnerability that the party and its candidates will take into the 2012 election. It poses a problem that cannot be easily resolved.
The only serious alternative strategy for the Democrats is to shift the attention of the electorate to issues like inequality, the declining fortunes of the middle class, corporate greed and diminishing social and economic mobility. These issues, which can work to the advantage of the Democrats, have gained some traction in recent months. 
It is no surprise that we have been hearing about them in President Obama's speeches, particularly the one he gave in Osawatomie, Kan. in December commemorating Teddy Roosevelt's progressivism and the State of the Union address last month. 
Still, the sheer size of the national debt, the accelerating pace at which it accumulates and the caliber of those on the left who consider the problem to have reached crisis proportions suggest that neither party will be able to plausibly guarantee the maintenance of the beneficent state Americans are used to.

        
Why Evangelicals Don't Like Mormons
        
Governor Romney, Meet Governor Dukakis
        
Not Set in Granite
        
Rick Santorum's Anti-College Rant
        
The Anti-Entitlement Strategy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); TAX REFORM (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); TAX LAW (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) austerity; budgets; debt; deficits; the economy; the presidential election of 2012; Bernstein, Jared; Norquist, Grover G; Reischauer, Robert D; Federal Budget (US); Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Democratic Party; United States

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (69%); JOHN BOEHNER (68%) Bernstein, Jared; Norquist, Grover G; Reischauer, Robert D

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2012



220 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: How About Gardening or Golfing at the Mall?

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Cleveland's Galleria at Erieview, like many malls across the country, is suffering. Closed on weekends because there are so few visitors, it is down to eight retail stores, eight food-court vendors and a couple of businesses like the local bar association.
So part of the glass-covered mall is being converted into a vegetable garden.
''I look at it as space, I don't look at it as retail,'' said Vicky Poole, a Galleria executive. ''You can't anymore.''
Malls, over the last 50 years, have gone from the community center in some cities to a relic of the way people once wanted to shop. While malls have faced problems in the past, the Internet is now pulling even more sales away from them. And as retailers crawl out of the worst recession since the advent of malls, many are realizing they are overbuilt and are closing locations at a fast clip. 
The result is near-record vacancy rates at malls of all kinds, both the big enclosed ones and the sprawling strips. Sears Holdings is closing up to 120 stores, Gap Inc. 200 stores and Talbots 110. Abercrombie & Fitch closed 50 stores last year, Hot Topic, almost the same number. Chains that have filed for bankruptcy in recent years, like Blockbuster, Anchor Blue, Circuit City and Borders, have left hundreds of stores lying vacant in malls across the country.
Most cities, looking at shrinking budgets, cannot afford to subsidize or knock down ailing malls, and healthy retailers that are expanding -- like H&M and Nordstrom Rack -- generally will not open at depressed locations. So, as though they were upholstering polyester chairs from the 1960s with Martha Stewart fabric, urban planners and community activists are trying to spruce up and rethink the uses of many of the artifacts.
Schools, medical clinics, call centers, government offices and even churches are now standard tenants in malls. By hanging a curtain to hide the food court, the Galleria in Cleveland, which opened in 1987 with about 70 retailers and restaurants, rents space for weddings and other events. Other malls have added aquariums, casinos and car showrooms.
Designers in Buffalo have proposed stripping down a mall to its foundation and reinventing it as housing, while an aspiring architect in Detroit has proposed turning a mall's parking lot there into a community farm. Columbus, Ohio, arguing that it was too expensive to maintain an empty mall on prime real estate, dismantled its City Center mall and replaced it with a park.
Even at many malls that continue to thrive, developers are redesigning them as town squares -- adding elements like dog parks and putting greens, creating street grids that go through the malls, and restoring natural elements like creeks that were originally paved over.
''Basically they're building the downtowns that the suburbs never had,'' along with reworking abandoned urban malls for nonshopping uses, said Ellen Dunham-Jones, a professor at the College of Architecture at the Georgia Institute of Technology.
The efforts reflect a shift in how Americans want to shop today: rather than going to big, overwhelming malls, many prefer places where stores can be entered from the street, featuring restaurants, entertainment and other Main Street mainstays. Also, as commuters in urban areas shift to public transportation, the giant parking lots are no longer needed.
The Simon Property Group, a large mall operator, is remodeling 15 to 20 malls a year, said its chief operating officer, Richard Sokolov. It is adding amenities like electric-car charging stations and stadium-seating theaters, and scheduling 20,000 events a year, like cooking demonstrations. Malls today have to ''provide a unique set of shopping, dining and entertainment experiences,'' Mr. Sokolov said.
Westfield, another large operator, has added dog runs and ice rinks, and, in Toledo, Ohio, the Wait Room, a lounge where customers can drink a beer and check their e-mail ''while their significant other shops,'' said Katy Dickey, a Westfield spokeswoman, in an e-mail.
While some malls can afford to change with the times, many cannot, and over all, there are too many malls today, urban planners say. The vacancy rate at shopping centers and strip malls was 11 percent in the last quarter of 2011, the highest level since 1991, according to the research firm Reis. Larger regional malls fared better, with a vacancy rate of 9.2 percent.
There are about 108,000 shopping centers in America, according to a 2009 survey by the International Council of Shopping Centers. Just a few years ago, developers competed to build malls, betting that continued growth would support them, but the recession threw those plans off course.
A new enclosed mall has not opened in the United States since 2006, according to Professor Dunham-Jones, and many ambitious projects, like New Jersey's Xanadu just west of Manhattan, have lain half-finished for years.
''In the aggregate, we have more than we need at this point, and it can have a blighting influence on communities,'' said Patrick Phillips, chief executive of the Urban Land Institute. ''You see that all over the country, these endless commercial strips that are completely underutilized.''
That is leading to a variety of creative solutions that ''would help make '60s and '70s suburbia a bit more sustainable,'' said Rob Shields, director of the City-Region Studies Center at the University of Alberta, which held a design competition over the last several months that attracted the Detroit and Buffalo proposals.
But putting the theory into practice is requiring unusual city-developer liaisons. Mall owners often need regulatory clearance or financing help from a city to make major changes, and cities can sometimes seize malls that they believe are a hindrance to economic development. And malls were usually built at busy intersections with good access to public transportation -- a combination that still works, even if the mall itself doesn't.
In Seattle, city planners are looking at reworking a still-thriving mall as a focus point for more development.
''We're at this interesting moment, because in cities, land is very scarce,'' said Marshall Foster, city planning director for Seattle, which is trying to make Northgate Mall, a popular mall built in 1950, a center for urban life. ''We can't afford to overlook these opportunities any longer.''
The city is adding transit and trying to increase jobs and living space there. It has restored a creek originally covered by a parking lot, and is pushing the mall owner and retailers to add a street-grid layout and remodel stores so they are accessible from the street.
Cleveland, too, has given over some plots of land to the greenhouse effort at the Galleria mall.
The shift to gardening began with the carts that used to sell jewelry or candles, where Ms. Poole, the director of marketing events, had herbs planted in the disused retail carts inside the mall. She learned how quickly aphids proliferate indoors (solution: release 1,500 ladybugs into the mall).
The garden now produces lettuce, strawberries, basil and other crops, which are sold to visitors and used for the mall's catering business. An unexpected benefit has been an influx of visitors, which has prompted related retailers to open in the mall, like a company that sells rainwater collection barrels.
''This has been sustaining us throughout these hard years, but now we're looking at the potential of turning things around,'' said Ms. Poole while preparing kale and spinach seeds for spring planting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gardens at the Galleria mall in Cleveland, which has branched out from standard retail fare in hopes of attracting visitors.
 Vicky Poole, director of marketing and special events at the Galleria in Cleveland, with a flat of recently sprouted kale. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MAXWELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); RELIGION (71%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); GOLF (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (51%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); CALL CENTERS (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); GAP INC (68%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (55%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); GPS (NYSE) (68%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



221 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; RAW DATA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, a Facebook Privacy Face-Off

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
BERLIN -- As Wall Street prepares for a record, multibillion-dollar initial stock sale from Facebook, the social networking site, a meeting with the potential to shape the economics of the deal was set to take place Monday in Vienna.
Richard Allan, a former member of Parliament in Britain who is the European director of policy for Facebook, and another executive from Facebook's headquarters in Menlo Park, California, will meet with Max Schrems, a 24-year-old college student.
Mr. Schrems, a law student at the University of Vienna and a user of Facebook since 2008, has led a vocal campaign in Europe against what he maintains are Facebook's illegal practices of collecting and marketing users' personal data, often without consent.
In less than a year, Mr. Schrems's one-person operation has morphed into a Web site, Europe Versus Facebook, and a grass-roots movement that has persuaded 40,000 people to contact Facebook in Ireland, where its European headquarters are located, to demand a summary of all the personal data the U.S. company is holding on them. 
Mr. Schrems and his crusade have become a cause celebre in parts of Europe, attracting the attention of lawmakers in Brussels as the Continent begins a lengthy debate over tough new proposed restrictions on personal data, which could affect Web businesses like Facebook.
Last month, the author of a proposed European data protection law, which would update a 1995 statute to reflect the realities of the digital age, cited Mr. Schrems's case as an example of why European lawmakers should adopt tightened controls over Web businesses.
The plan put forward by Viviane Reding, the European justice commissioner, would give E.U. residents the right to opt out more easily of standard data collection practices used by businesses like Facebook. It would also compel companies to expunge all personal data, permanently, at a consumer's request.
Both elements have the potential to hamper the data-harvesting engine that is at the heart of Facebook's advertising-driven business, and of its value.
Facebook said in a statement that its data practices followed European law and that the company had gone out of its way to meet Mr. Schrems's request for personal information. The company also noted that Facebook users could easily obtain a copy of their information on Facebook by using a function within their personal account settings.
The company said a report in December from an Irish regulator demonstrated ''how Facebook adheres to European data protection principles and complies with Irish law.'' It says it is not only fully compliant with E.U. data protection laws, but ''we also strongly believe that every Facebook user owns his or her own data and should have simple and easy access to it.''
Mr. Schrems appeared on Facebook's radar last June when he filed a complaint against the company with the Irish regulator, the office of the Irish Data Protection Commissioner, in Port Arlington, Ireland. He alleged 22 violations of European law. Mr. Schrems filed the grievance after using a provision of Irish law to obtain from Facebook a copy of all of the information the company had been keeping on him.
Facebook sent Mr. Schrems a computer disc containing 1,222 pages of information.
The disc, Mr. Schrems said, showed that Facebook was routinely collecting data that he had never consented to give, like his physical location, which he assumes was determined from his computer's unique address identifiers, which can be traced geographically. Facebook was also retaining data he had deleted, Mr. Schrems said.
Irish officials began an audit based on his complaints and in October visited Facebook's offices in the Hanover Quay section of Dublin, where the company employs more than 400 workers to direct many of its global operations outside North America.
On Dec. 21, the Irish regulator, which has a staff of only 22 employees, released a 150-page report that gave Facebook until July to make a series of changes in the way it collects and retains data and how it explains to users how their information is being used.
Mr. Schrems, during an interview last week, said the Irish inquiry and the regulator's agreement with Facebook had not addressed ''90 percent'' of his complaints. Mr. Schrems said he planned to request a ''formal decision'' from Irish officials, which would give him the legal basis to challenge the regulator's findings in Irish court.
Gary Davis, the deputy Irish data commissioner who led the audit on Facebook, said his agency had obtained significant concessions from Facebook that had had positive effects for the 854 million active global users of the site. After 40,000 people requested their own data from Facebook Ireland, the company responded, Mr. Davis said, by creating a software tool in October on the Web site that gives all users a quick overview of the data being kept on file.
Facebook announced improvements to that tool last week, Mr. Davis said, to provide more detailed information, and has committed to providing even more by July, when the regulator will revisit Facebook's offices to check whether it has honored its commitments.
That visit could coincide with Facebook's I.P.O., which could take place as early as May, depending on the length of the regulatory review in the United States.
Mr. Davis said that Facebook, as a result of Mr. Schrems's campaign, had agreed to cut the amount of time it retains data on most user activities on the Web site to less than one year. Queries typed into Facebook's search field are deleted within six months, in conformance with European law. Previously, Mr. Davis said, the company had no comprehensive policy on data retention, with times often dictated by the perceived level of security threats and cyberattacks on the business.
''We still view Max very favorably for the issues he has raised, which were very specific and well prepared and have led to concrete improvements in how Facebook does business,'' Mr. Davis said. ''I obviously think we have achieved a lot in Ireland by getting Facebook to improve its transparency and data protection practices.''
Mr. Schrems said the concessions from Facebook had been insufficient. At the time of its release, Thilo Weichert, the data protection commissioner in the German state of Schleswig-Holstein, criticized the Irish regulator, saying it had identified infractions in Facebook's handling of consumer data but had not taken a harder line or imposed financial penalties.
The main issue, Mr. Schrems said, is that no one, including the Irish regulator, is independently verifying whether Facebook is doing what it says it will do in terms of permanently deleting personal information and shortening data retention times.
''No one is actually looking into the computers,'' Mr. Schrems said. ''The regulators are just getting statements from different parties and deciding based on a vacuum.''
Mr. Davis, the Irish regulator, said Facebook had given him full access to the data it kept.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); DATA SECURITY (88%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); CREDIT REGULATION (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (92%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



222 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Volunteering Time and Clicks To Bridge Generations

BYLINE: By MATHEW R. WARREN

 BODY:
Last month, in a computer lab at Baruch College in Manhattan, a group of high school students became teachers for a morning. Their pupils were adults hungry to learn about Gmail, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook.
''I'm going to get on Facebook,'' Jeanne Pearson-Gray, 65, said excitedly as Mohamed Sall, 16, stood over her shoulder with his hand on the computer mouse.
A junior at Baruch College Campus High School, Mohamed guided her step by step through the Web site. Ms. Pearson-Gray, a resident of Harlem and a counselor for a program that assists low-income students at the colleges of the City University of New York, said she was thrilled to finally get caught up on social media.
''There are about 100 people that want to contact me,'' she said. ''Friends, family, former students, they've all been asking me to join Facebook.'' 
Mohamed, who lives on Roosevelt Island, was a volunteer, along with other members of the National Honor Society at his school, in a workshop called Closing the Technology Gap. It was organized in part by the Community Service Society of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
In sharing his Internet know-how, Mohamed said he understood that what might seem basic to him might be harder to grasp for someone who had not grown up with the technology.
The workshop was one of a series of projects that resulted from the fund's partnering with NYC Service, a city-run program that promotes volunteerism.
To commemorate the Neediest Cases Fund's 100th anniversary, the seven agencies supported by the fund teamed up with Service in Schools, an initiative led by NYC Service and the city's Education Department. The objective was to mobilize students from 18 high schools across the city to provide community services and inspire others.
Some of the projects focused on communicating across the generations and getting New Yorkers to share the stories of their lives. Students from the Urban Assembly School for Law and Justice, a high school in Brooklyn, met in December with adult clients of Brooklyn Community Services who struggled with emotional and mental health issues and received services from the agency. The students made audio recordings of their interviews, which they used in multimedia presentations shown in a celebration later that month.
''I guarantee you this conversation right here is going to stick in your brain,'' Jerome Jackson said as he sat at a table with two students. He said he had ''been around the block a few times.''
''I'm 46 years old, 14 years off crack cocaine,'' he said.
Mr. Jackson, a drummer who lives in a homeless shelter in Brooklyn, told the students about his struggles with addiction and bipolar disorder. He spoke of the strength that his faith in God and his recent thirst for knowledge had given him.
''The older you get, the wiser you're going to get,'' he said.
Julian Jimenez, a student who interviewed Mr. Jackson, said he was so impressed that he exchanged contact information with him.
''The stories he told were uplifting,'' said Julian, 15, a sophomore from Williamsburg, Brooklyn. ''He taught me a lot of things. Today was an inspirational day.''
For another project in December, students from the School for Legal Studies in Brooklyn volunteered at a Christmas toy distribution drive for struggling families at a Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens community center in Astoria, Queens. That evening, about 300 families lined up to receive gifts and take pictures with Santa Claus.
''Seeing the kids' reactions to Santa, they remind me of how I was when I was little,'' said Brian Vazquez, 17, a junior from Bushwick, Brooklyn, who helped give out stuffed animals to children after they sat on Santa's lap. ''Handing them the toys makes me feel happy.''
Andrew Mitchell watched as his 6-year-old daughter picked out a green teddy bear and his 5-year-old son chose a blue-and-yellow stuffed lizard with Brian's help.
''That's a beautiful thing to volunteer their time,'' said Mr. Mitchell, 30, an unemployed construction worker from Corona, Queens. ''We fell on hard times, and this year has been really hard for us. Today is probably going to be my children's best day.''
Saisha Ryan, 16, a junior from East New York, Brooklyn, said she liked volunteering because it forced her to interact with strangers. ''I'm a little shy,'' she said. ''It brings me out of my shell because I have to talk to the families.''
The sense of fulfillment, and of having gained something invaluable from the experience, was common among the students.
After being thanked by Ms. Pearson-Gray for his patience showing her the ropes on Facebook, Mohamed said, ''I learned a lot about myself while teaching.''
He added, ''I'm going to be that age one day, and I'd like people to help me then.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mohamed Sall helped Jeanne Pearson-Gray with Facebook. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jerome Jackson, left, Devenaire Richards and Julian Jimenez. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Brian Vazquez, center, and Jonathan Caraballo, Santa's helpers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $6,299,261 Recorded Tuesday 10,240 Total $6,309,501 Last year to date $5,961,716 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (75%); MENTAL HEALTH (75%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); COCAINE (60%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HONOR SOCIETY (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



223 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: A Lightning Rod in the Storm Over America's Class Divide

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Charles Murray and Richard J. Herrnstein's book ''The Bell Curve'' appeared in 1994, it was denounced by social scientists, liberal pundits and a little-known Chicago civil-rights lawyer named Barack Obama, who in a commentary on NPR accused the authors of calculating that ''white America is ready for a return to good old-fashioned racism as long as it's artfully packaged.''
Anyone who remembers the firestorm over that 845-page doorstop's dense arguments about race, class, genetics and I.Q. might be tempted to look at the cover of Mr. Murray's latest book, ''Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010,'' and think, ''Here we go again.''
But ''Coming Apart,'' which depicts members of white elites as hypocrites living in a bubble and the white working class as succumbing to moral decay, is hardly a flattering portrait of white people, let alone, Mr. Murray insists, a partisan barnburner. 
''It's not a brief for the right,'' Mr. Murray said in a recent interview at the American Enterprise Institute here, where he has been a scholar since 1990. ''The problem I describe isn't a conservative-versus-liberal problem. It's a cultural problem the whole country has.''
''Coming Apart,'' which shot to No. 5 at Amazon.com immediately upon publication last week, has certainly prompted much conversation, if little in the way of consensus. David Brooks, a columnist for The New York Times, pre-emptively declared it the most important book of the year, saying, ''I'll be shocked if there's another book that so compellingly describes the most important trends in American society.''
But to critics on the left Mr. Murray's arguments are just an effort to change the subject. Defining the problem as one of cultural inequality instead of economic inequality, as the New York Magazine blogger Jonathan Chait put it, allows one to start talking about marriage and industriousness and ''steer the debate back onto comfortable conservative terrain.''
Looking at America Mr. Murray sees a country increasingly polarized into two culturally and geographically isolated demographics. In Belmont, the fictional name Mr. Murray gives to the part of America where the top 20 percent live, divorce is low, the work ethic is strong, religious observance is high, and out-of-wedlock births are all but unheard of. Meanwhile in Fishtown, where the bottom 30 percent live, what Mr. Murray calls America's four ''founding virtues'' -- marriage, industriousness, community and faith -- have all but collapsed.
The book says little about the roots of Fishtown's problems, but in conversation Mr. Murray doesn't hesitate to name the villain. ''The '60s were a disaster in terms of social policy,'' he said. ''The elites put in place a whole set of reforms which I think fundamentally changed the signals and the incentives facing low-income people and encouraged a variety of trends that soon became self-reinforcing.''
It's an argument familiar from Mr. Murray's 1984 book, ''Losing Ground,'' which established him overnight as a major policy intellectual and helped lay the groundwork for the 1996 law overhauling welfare. But in ''Coming Apart'' Mr. Murray's recommendations are both more vague and far more ambitious. The first step, he writes, is for the people of Belmont to drop their ''nonjudgmentalism'' and lecture Fishtown on the importance of marriage and nondependence: to ''preach what they practice,'' as Mr. Murray puts it.
Next they need to leave their upper-middle-class enclaves and move closer to Fishtown.
That's exactly what Mr. Murray said he did two decades ago, when he and his second wife, Catherine Cox, a retired English professor, moved from Washington to Burkittsville, Md., a historic rural town of about 170 people about 50 miles to the northwest.
''I did not want my children to grow up only knowing other upper-middle-class kids like themselves,'' said Mr. Murray, who has two children with Ms. Cox and two from his first marriage. ''That was a very conscious worry shared by my work.''
Life in Burkittsville, as he described it, approximates the small-town virtues he enjoyed growing up in Newton, Iowa, where, as the son of a manager at Maytag, he could mingle easily with the children of assembly-line workers.
In Burkittsville, he said, he and his wife attend Quaker meetings and enjoy friendships with both other professionals and blue-collar tradespeople, whose travails he cited to counter the suggestion that the problems described in ''Coming Apart'' might have something to do with the disappearance of working-class jobs.
Until the recession hit, Mr. Murray insisted, his blue-collar friends were eager to hire apprentices at good wages but struggled to find anyone willing to do the work. ''They are looking at a marked deterioration in industriousness that is real and palpable,'' he said.
Mr. Murray's critics jump on such moralizing arguments, saying they blithely ignore a large body of research on the causes of family breakdown among the working class.
''He wants to go back and blame the counterculture for everything,'' Claude S. Fischer, a sociologist at the University of California, Berkeley, said in a telephone interview. ''But the huge majority of social scientists would say it's the economic downturn suffered by the less educated in the last generation.''
Mr. Murray, who has a Ph.D. in political science from M.I.T., is well aware of his fraught standing among his fellow social scientists, noting in the acknowledgments of his latest book that being thanked by him ''can cause trouble for people in academia.'' But he described himself as ''almost completely rehabilitated'' since the fracas surrounding ''The Bell Curve,'' saying, ''I am no longer a complete pariah in some academic quarters.'' Still, he receives few invitations to speak on campuses, and an appearance last spring at Earlham College in Indiana was interrupted twice by a pulled fire alarm.
His real audience, though, is not academia but policy makers and ordinary people.
Both groups could find ''Coming Apart'' challenging. It seems unlikely that any politician will take up Mr. Murray's call to replace all federal income-transfer programs with a modest guaranteed income for all Americans age 21 and over. He's ''completely unwired'' in partisan political circles these days, Mr. Murray insisted, adding, ''Neither party wants to say, you know, we've got a real problem with the working class being less and less able to participate in American life.''
Mr. Murray may have just as hard a time persuading his comfortably upper-middle-class readers -- liberal or conservative -- to leave behind the nice houses (not to mention the top public schools) of Belmont and find their own Burkittsville.
But whatever happens, Mr. Murray, who turned 69 recently, vowed that ''Coming Apart'' would be his last major statement about the relationship among virtue, happiness and public policy.
''If I can't persuade people at this point, I'm not going to persuade them with another book,'' he said.
Not that Mr. Murray has had his own mind changed about much. He said he saw no real contradiction between his staunch libertarian faith in freedom of choice and his old-fashioned moralist's dismay at where choice often leads.
Asked if he had ever reversed himself intellectually, he thought for a few minutes before coming back to ''The Bell Curve,'' whose arguments about a genetically advantaged ''cognitive elite'' he reprises in ''Coming Apart.''
Working on ''The Bell Curve,'' he said, ''brought home to me the extent to which in an age when cognitive ability is getting more and more important, and people are born into the world getting the short end of the stick in that regard, I think I'm more sympathetic than I used to be to taking that into account with public policy.''
''But that doesn't make me very sympathetic,'' he quickly added, with a laugh. ''I still want to find a way that leaves people free to live their lives without telling them what to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Murray, author of ''Coming Apart,'' in Burkittsville, Md., his home for two decades. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERAL MEDIA (89%); WRITERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); ETHICS (72%); RELIGION (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); NEW YORK MAGAZINE (52%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



224 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Merck & Company named McCann HumanCare, New York, as the agency of record for consumer advertising for the respiratory brands Dulera, Nasonex and Singulair. Spending was not disclosed. The decision was the most recent in a series of changes in agency relationships for Merck drug products. Dulera had previously been handled by DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, and Nasonex had previously been handled by BBDO Worldwide, also part of Omnicom; Singulair had no previous agency. McCann HumanCare is part of the McCann Erickson Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. 
Medifast, Owings Mill, Md., which offers weight-loss programs, selected Solve, Minneapolis, to handle tasks like branding, for which there had been no previous agency. Spending was not disclosed; in past years, the budget ranged from $30 million to $40 million. A campaign will carry the theme ''Become yourself.''
Safety-Kleen Systems, Plano, Tex., hired the New York office of Cramer-Krasselt as the first agency of record for EcoPower, its brand of motor oil recycled and refined from reclaimed motor oil. Spending was estimated at less than $5 million.
Destination D.C., the convention and tourism corporation for Washington, D.C., chose MDB Communications, Washington, as agency of record for creative and media planning tasks. Spending for the assignment, which had previously been handled internally, was estimated at $1.8 million.
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, Cooperstown, N.Y., named Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its strategic and creative adviser. There had not been an agency previously. Carmichael Lynch will create campaigns pro bono to encourage tourists to visit the hall of fame and museum.
People
Bernhard Glaser, general manager for product management at Mercedes-Benz USA, Montvale, N.J., was named vice president for marketing, succeeding Steve Cannon, who recently became president and chief executive. Mercedes-Benz USA is part of Daimler.
Miscellany
MacMillan Communications, New York, formed a unit, MacMillan Social, led by Chris Sullivan, managing director.
Publicis Groupe, Paris, acquired a digital agency in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, named Flip Media, which will operate under its own name as part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe. Financial terms were not disclosed.
''The Voice,'' the reality competition series on NBC, signed three marketers as official sponsors for its second season, which began on Sunday and continues on Monday. Sprint, the sole official sponsor for the first season, is returning, to be joined by Kia Motors and the Starbucks Coffee Company.
The broadcast television networks can expect a robust market for the sale of commercial time before the start of the 2012-13 season, according to a forecast by an analyst, Brian Wieser, of the Pivotal Research Group, New York. The cost to reach each 1,000 viewers, a common measure on Madison Avenue known as cpms, will increase about 8 percent from the cpms for commercial time that advertisers bought ahead of the 2011-12 season, Mr. Wieser wrote in a research note. The so-called upfront market, which begins in the spring after the networks make presentations to advertisers each May, is closely watched as an indicator of the health of the advertising and media economies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); BASEBALL (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); DIETING (55%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (94%); MERCK & CO INC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (92%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (90%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (85%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (71%); STARBUCKS CORP (61%); SAFETY-KLEEN INC (56%); MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (53%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (94%); MRK (PAR) (93%); MRK (NYSE) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (92%); PUB (PAR) (85%); SBUX (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (61%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (61%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (56%); NAICS562112 HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION (56%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (56%); NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (53%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



225 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Designs From 450 Million Years Ago, When Hell's Kitchen Earned Its Name

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
''That's ancestral North America out there,'' said Sidney Horenstein, the geologist and environmental educator emeritus of the American Museum of Natural History, gesturing broadly toward the towers of mid-Manhattan. ''Here, we're on this exotic continent that collided with it.''
Exotic is the word. The rock outcrop that emerges like the tip of a geological iceberg from the children's playground in DeWitt Clinton Park, at West 52nd Street and 12th Avenue, is an astonishing work of natural sculpture; utterly sensuous - almost sensual in spots - with smooth curves and bubbly folds and veinous striations that look too organic to have been formed of schist, gneiss and amphibolite. 
Still, that's not what Mr. Horenstein means when he uses the word ''exotic.'' This outcrop near the Hudson River is what geologists call an exotic terrane, a fragment of the crust from one tectonic plate that has been sutured onto another and therefore differs in its composition from the surrounding rock. The only other visible example of this particular terrane in New York City, Mr. Horenstein said, is at Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx.
The collision that grafted this terrane onto North America occurred roughly 450 million years ago, he said. (That would explain why I don't recall covering it for The Times. I was still a news clerk back then.)
What prompted the meeting with Mr. Horenstein is that bedrock is back in the news, thanks in part to a Jan. 17 post by Matt Chaban of The New York Observer: ''Uncanny Valley: The Real Reason There Are No Skyscrapers in the Middle of Manhattan.''
For many years, the ''valley'' in New York's skyline has been explained to some degree by the presence or absence of bedrock close enough to street level that towers could be anchored to it. Christopher J. Schuberth described the phenomenon in ''The Geology of New York City and Environs'' (1968):
The skyscrapers of New York City are clustered together into the midtown group, where the bedrock is within several feet of the surface, and the downtown group, where the bedrock again reappears to within 40 feet of the surface near Wall Street.
The Observer highlighted a study published late last year in The Journal of Economic History by Jason Barr, an associate professor at Rutgers University; Troy Tassier, an associate professor at Fordham University; and Rossen Trendafilov, a teaching fellow at Fordham. ''Our results showed that bedrock had, at most, a small effect on the formation of the skyline,'' the authors concluded. ''Real estate developers built skyscrapers to be near already established centers of commerce, where public transportation was easily accessible, and away from slums and manufacturing districts.''
Whatever its role in urban development, I wanted to find out more about the bedrock just a few feet underfoot in Midtown and Downtown, beginning with: can you see any of it outside of parkland? Mr. Horenstein said he knew of no outcrops in Lower Manhattan but that it was still visible in a few spots around mid-Manhattan, including some exposures along the Amtrak rail cut paralleling 10th and 11th Avenues.
Off I went, armed with just enough rudimentary information to be dangerous, like the fact that the three principal rock types underlying New York City are Fordham gneiss, Manhattan schist and Inwood marble. Wow! Could that chalky, crumbly, whitish-gray patch just north of the 37th Street overpass be a little-known vein of Inwood marble?
Mr. Horenstein assumed the benevolent smile of one who's been asked such questions before. Many times before. ''No,'' he said patiently. ''It's cement.'' He identified the rest of it as Manhattan schist, manifesting little excitement as he did so.
The exotic terrane, on the other, elicited much affectionate perusal. ''It's one of my favorites,'' Mr. Horenstein allowed. That's no small compliment from a man who earned his bachelor's degree in geology from Hunter College in 1958 and spent 45 years on the staff of the American Museum of Natural History.
He explained that the outcrop was made of metamorphic rock that was formed 15 to 20 miles beneath the earth's surface. Even though the layers were once horizontal, the tremendous pressures exerted on them were such that they emerged in a vertical array, with folds so tight they almost look like ripples in soft fabric rather than unforgiving rock. Mr. Horenstein pointed out areas where the gneiss and the schist had deformed around the harder strata of amphibolite, as a viscous liquid might make its way slowly around a dam.
''Think of layers of wax that are just squeezed,'' Mr. Horenstein said. ''Even when it's weathered, you can see all those convolutions.'' The marvels continued, as a granitic substance filled in the cracks after the deformation, creating delicate traceries. Retreating glacial ice finally gave the whole thing a terrific polish that endures to this day.
Mr. Horenstein and I met on this outcrop of an exotic continent to talk about skyscrapers. But as our focus was drawn more and more into the rocky folds, the skyscrapers of modern New York seemed very distant.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rock outcrop in the playground of DeWitt Clinton Park, with a range of sensuous patterns, formed from the ancient collision of two tectonic plates. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (85%); SCULPTURE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); REAL ESTATE (63%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



226 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: State Goes Its Own Way To Regulate Forest Roads

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
DENVER -- A road into the piney woods can be fraught with consequences. That was the premise, more than a decade ago, behind a Clinton administration rule that restricted road building on millions of acres of national forests in the West. The so-called roadless rule, fought over in court from the start, was validated last year by a federal appeals panel, setting off a wave of euphoria among supporters and consternation among critics.
But there is a big wrinkle here in Colorado, which was one of only two states -- Idaho was the other -- that at the urging of the Bush administration developed their own rules about roads in the wild.
The state restrictions are supposed to be at least as stiff as the national rule, and a decision on Colorado's draft plan, now under review in Washington by the United States Forest Service, is expected within weeks. But conservationists say the plan is much less protective of forestland and creates the likelihood that a state many Americans identify with the very aeries and woods the national rule was designed to protect could become a kind of orphan. 
''It would give Colorado, at the end of day, fewer protections than any other state,'' said Jane Danowitz, director of the public lands program at the Pew Environment Group, a nonprofit organization in Washington. ''It's a runaway train.''
State environmental managers strongly disagree, saying that Colorado's plan would be as protective over all as the national template, if not more so, but that it would just get there a different way.
They say that bipartisan support through six years of discussion under three governors, two Democrats and one Republican, created a package suited to the special needs of the state, and that tough economic times have only accentuated the need for a system that takes jobs and core industries into account. The political backdrop touches a debate raging in many other state capitals as well: local versus federal authority and the limits of the 10th Amendment's declaration of state autonomy.
Some economic interests, both sides agree, stand to benefit from the state plan. Coal mines and ski resorts, for example, would get access to backcountry areas the national plan could bar. More logging, for fire prevention and possibly commercial sale, could be allowed as well. And natural gas drilling could expand into areas that the national rule would hold off limits.
But while environmental groups argue that special interests are trumping the public good, and that the state is underestimating the long-term economic value of undisturbed land, some state and federal officials say a special case for Colorado makes sense.
''It's not one prescription fits all,'' said Mike King, the executive director of the Colorado Department of Natural Resources. ''We are moving forward with the Colorado rule because we believe it's better for Colorado -- that we are able to address our unique environmental circumstances, and our unique economic circumstances, in a way that the 2001 rule simply couldn't and didn't.''
Environmental protection is still in there, Mr. King said, but so is economic protection, with exemptions -- temporary roads that would be restored or allowed to return to nature after years of use -- for industries that the state considers vital. Operators of three underground coal mines in western Colorado that have said they could face a shutdown or constriction as early as this summer without access to nearby land could get the use of 20,000 adjoining acres to build gas vents. The ski industry, which mostly operates on or next to Forest Service land in Colorado, would have access to 8,000 acres.
The idea of cordoning off some forestland as roadless -- about 30 percent of the 193-million-acre national forest system was designated, with sharper lines of defense against developers, all-terrain vehicles and loggers -- was a political firecracker from the moment it was proposed in late 1999.
Critics denounced it as an end run around Congress, creating wilderness protection by presidential fiat. President George W. Bush, taking office just as the rule was supposed to take effect, invited states to blaze their own way. Wyoming fought for years in federal court, a challenge that was overcome only last fall when the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit in Denver said the Forest Service had discretion over the land it administered. Idaho also broke from the pack with a state-specific roadless plan, but unlike Colorado's it has drawn mostly praise from conservation and recreation groups.
The push-pull of politics has caught some groups that advocate for the public lands, or depend on them economically, squarely in the middle.
''We're not full-on opposing it,'' said I Ling Thompson, a spokeswoman for the Outdoor Industry Association, a national trade group for recreation companies, which has its headquarters in Colorado. ''We've been supportive of development of the Colorado rule, but we do feel that right now there are some things under the current draft that are not strong enough.''
Several independent forestry experts said that on paper, at least, Colorado's plan was clearly less stringent than what the Clinton administration proposed.
''No question that in some respects it's less protective,'' said William S. Keeton, a professor of forestry and forest ecology at the University of Vermont. But whether the net effects would truly leave forests in Colorado less protected is not as clear, he said.
The plan, for example, would allow more latitude for temporary roads needed for power-line construction, which could be harmful to delicate areas, Dr. Keeton said. But it also would allow more fire-restoration work like the thinning of trees and prescribed burning, which he said could have ecological benefits if planned carefully. ''The devil is in the details,'' he said.
A forest supervisor for the Forest Service in Colorado, Glenn P. Casamassa, said the directive from Secretary Tom Vilsack of the federal Agriculture Department, the Forest Service's parent agency, is that any exception to the national plan must be as strong as or stronger than the national rule. Colorado's meets that standard, Mr. Casamassa said.
But he said the West, and maybe Colorado in particular, has also changed significantly in the intervening years. More people are living near national forests. An outbreak of pine-killing bark beetles that has its epicenter in Colorado and several major fires over those years that roared out to touch the edge of urban life have also changed thinking about intervention in the wild, Mr. Casamassa said.
''Not only has the landscape changed, but also the view of what is appropriate to do in these areas,'' he said.
Ms. Danowitz at the Pew group said part of her concern about Colorado was that other states might follow its example. A patchwork system of rules and special interests that can speak loudly in state capitals was part of what the national rule was intended to fix, she said.
But Mr. King at the state natural resources agency said he thought the critics overstated Colorado's differences, partly out of that broader concern about what other states might do. Economic life in the woods, he said, can be balanced with protection.
''It's one less hoop to jump through, but not a jailbreak,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The community of Pinewood Springs, above, is surrounded by Roosevelt National Forest in Colorado. Left, dead pines can be seen near the state's Peak to Peak Highway. Below left, a sign marks the border of Pinewood Springs and federal land, which would fall under restrictions on building roads. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (78%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SKIING (60%); COAL MINING (50%); RESORTS (50%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOREST SERVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



227 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Intellectual Property Pact Draws Fire in Europe

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- European activists who participated in American Internet protests last month learned that there was political power to be harnessed on the Web. Now they are putting that knowledge to use in an effort to defeat new global rules for intellectual property.
In the U.S. protests , Web sites including Wikipedia went dark Jan. 18, and more than seven million people signed Google's online petition opposing the Stop Online Piracy Act and the Protect Intellectual Property Act. Ultimately, even the bills' sponsors in the U.S. Congress backed down under the onslaught of public criticism.
The European activists are hoping to use similar pressure to stop the international Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement , or ACTA, which is meant to clamp down on illegal commerce in copyrighted and trademarked goods. Opponents say that it will erode Internet freedom and stifle innovation. About 1.5 million people have signed a Web petition calling for the European Parliament to reject ACTA, which some say is merely SOPA and PIPA on an international level. Thousands of people have turned out for demonstrations across Europe, with more scheduled for next Saturday. 
After more than three years of talks, which critics say were conducted without sufficient public input , the United States signed on to ACTA last October in Tokyo, along with Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand and South Korea. (The agreement is to come into force when six of those countries have ratified it.)
But the issue moved into the mainstream in Europe after the European Union and representatives of 22 of 27 E.U. members -- all except Cyprus, Estonia, Germany, the Netherlands and Slovakia -- signed Jan. 26.
On the same day, Kader Arif, a French Socialist member of the European Parliament, quit as the body's special rapporteur for ACTA. He said the European Parliament and civil society organizations had been excluded from the negotiations, and he denounced the entire process as a ''masquerade.'' The issue, which had gotten little traction in the news media previously, began to move into the headlines, with calls for national legislatures and the European Parliament to reject the treaty.
The pressure on politicians has been unrelenting. Helena Drnovsek-Zorko, the Slovenian diplomat who signed the treaty on behalf of her country, has publicly disowned it and called for her fellow citizens to demonstrate against it. Ms. Drnovsek-Zorko said that she had signed ''out of civic carelessness'' and that it was her conviction that ACTA ''limits and withholds the freedom of engagement on the largest and most significant network in human history.''
Poland, the home of some of the most vocal protests to date, ''suspended'' ratification, said the Polish prime minister, Donald Tusk, after politicians wearing the Guy Fawkes masks favored by the online vigilante group Anonymous protested in the Polish Parliament.
ACTA seeks to provide a common framework of civil and criminal procedures to stop illegal trade in goods and properties -- like Louis Vuitton bags, Hollywood films and recorded music -- providing holders of intellectual property rights with the means to work through the courts outside their national borders to shut down counterfeiters and pirates. And though two piracy heavyweights, Russia and China, have not signed, ACTA's drafters say they hope those countries will come to see the benefits of joining.
Mr. Arif, the opponent to the measure in the European Parliament, said that ACTA was ''wrong in both form and substance.''
He said European officials, who began negotiating the agreement in 2007, kept legislators in the dark for years and ignored their concerns, finally presenting them with a finished deal for ratification with no option of modifying it.
''Voila, that's the masquerade that I denounce,'' he said. Mr. Arif said a number of issues in the agreement troubled him, particularly a provision that could make Internet service providers liable for copyright infringement by users, something that would be in conflict with existing E.U. law.
Another provision, he said, appeared to roll back protections for generic drugs by lumping them in with counterfeit drugs.
Further, he said, the law leaves to the discretion of each country the definition of what constitutes a ''commercial'' level of piracy, so some countries might choose to search travelers' laptop computers and digital music players in search of illegal downloads. ACTA supporters reject the criticism and say action is essential when legitimate owners of intellectual property are losing tens of billions of dollars annually to counterfeiting and illegal sharing. They accuse some opponents of deliberately exaggerating ACTA's provisions to fan fears.
''ACTA is about enforcing existing intellectual property rights and about acting against large-scale infringements often pursued by criminal organizations, and not about pursuing individual citizens,'' said John Clancy, the E.U. trade spokesman.
The goal of the treaty, he said, was to raise standards around the world to European standards, not to crack down in Europe. ''It's simply misleading to suggest that ACTA would limit the freedom of the Internet,'' Mr. Clancy added. ''ACTA is not about checking private laptops or smartphones at borders. It will not cut access to the Internet or censor any Web sites.''
Ron Kirk, the U.S. trade representative, said in October that protecting intellectual property was ''essential to American jobs in innovative and creative industries'' and that the treaty ''provides a platform for the Obama administration to work cooperatively with other governments to advance the fight against counterfeiting and piracy.''
The United States and the European Union dismiss the charge that the talks were not transparent, with U.S. trade officials arguing that the negotiating partners released the ACTA draft agreement in April 2010 and that the final version has been public for more than a year.
In the United States, too, ACTA has attracted criticism, but probably because its provisions are aimed at piracy overseas, there has been less controversy than for SOPA and PIPA. The NetCoalition, the alliance of technology companies including Google and eBay that fought SOPA and PIPA, has been critical of ACTA, as well.
And about 75 law professors signed an open letter to President Barack Obama, in which they criticized what they said was the ''intense but needless secrecy'' under which the negotiations were carried out, as well as the White House's argument that Mr. Obama had the authority to endorse ACTA not as a treaty, which would require the advice and consent of the Senate, but rather as ''a sole executive agreement.''
That has not gone over well in the U.S. Congress. ''There are questions of constitutional authority surrounding whether the administration can enter into this agreement without Congress's approval,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.
''Either way, when international accords, like ACTA, are conceived and constructed under a cloak of secrecy,'' Mr. Wyden said, ''it is hard to argue that they represent the broad interests of the general public. The controversy over ACTA should surprise no one.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In January, lawmakers in Poland held up masks to protest the ratifying of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAWEL SUPERNAK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (91%); TRADEMARKS (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PETITIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); TRADEMARK LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); POLAND (93%); FRANCE (90%); MOROCCO (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); CYPRUS (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); GERMANY (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



228 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Things Are Not O.K.

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In a better world -- specifically, a world with a better policy elite -- a good jobs report would be cause for unalloyed celebration. In the world we actually inhabit, however, every silver lining comes with a cloud. Friday's report was, in fact, much better than expected, and has made many people, myself included, more optimistic. But there's a real danger that this optimism will be self-defeating, because it will encourage and empower the purge-and-liquidate crowd.
So, about that jobs report: it was genuinely good, certainly compared with the dreariness that has become the norm. Notably, for once falling unemployment was the real thing, reflecting growing availability of jobs rather than workers dropping out of the labor force, and hence out of the unemployment measure. 
Furthermore, it's not hard to see how this recovery could become self-sustaining. In particular, at this point America is seriously under-housed by historical standards, because we've built very few houses in the six years since the housing bubble popped. The main thing standing in the way of a housing bounce-back is a sharp fall in household formation -- econospeak for lots of young adults living with their parents because they can't afford to move out. Let enough Americans find jobs and get homes of their own, and housing, which got us into this slump, could start to power us out.
That said, our economy remains deeply depressed. As the Economic Policy Institute points out, we started 2012 with fewer workers employed than in January 2001 -- zero growth after 11 years, even as the population, and therefore the number of jobs we needed, grew steadily. The institute estimates that even at January's pace of job creation it would take us until 2019 to return to full employment.
And we should never forget that the persistence of high unemployment inflicts enormous, continuing damage on our economy and our society, even if the unemployment rate is gradually declining. Bear in mind, in particular, the fact that long-term unemployment -- the percentage of workers who have been out of work for six months or more -- remains at levels not seen since the Great Depression. And each month that this goes on means more Americans permanently alienated from the work force, more families exhausting their savings, and, not least, more of our fellow citizens losing hope.
So this encouraging employment report shouldn't lead to any slackening in efforts to promote recovery. Full employment is still a distant dream -- and that's unacceptable. Policy makers should be doing everything they can to get us back to full employment as soon as possible.
Unfortunately, that's not the way many people with influence on policy see it.
Very early in this slump -- basically, as soon as the threat of complete financial collapse began to recede -- a significant number of people within the policy community began demanding an early end to efforts to support the economy. Some of their demands focused on the fiscal side, with calls for immediate austerity despite low borrowing costs and high unemployment. But there have also been repeated demands that the Fed and its counterparts abroad tighten money and raise interest rates.
What's the reasoning behind those demands? Well, it keeps changing. Sometimes it's about the alleged risk of inflation: every uptick in consumer prices has been met with calls for tighter money now now now. And the inflation hawks at the Fed and elsewhere seem undeterred either by the way the predicted explosion of inflation keeps not happening, or by the disastrous results last April when the European Central Bank actually did raise rates, helping to set off the current European crisis.
But there's also a sort of freestanding opposition to low interest rates, a sense that there's something wrong with cheap money and easy credit even in a desperately weak economy. I think of this as the urge to purge, after Andrew Mellon, Herbert Hoover's Treasury secretary, who urged him to let liquidation run its course, to ''purge the rottenness'' that he believed afflicted America.
And every time we get a bit of good news, the purge-and-liquidate types pop up, saying that it's time to stop focusing on job creation.
Sure enough, no sooner were the new numbers out than James Bullard, the president of the St. Louis Fed, declared that the new numbers make further Fed action to promote growth unnecessary. And the sad truth is that the good jobs numbers have definitely made it less likely that the Fed will take the expansionary action it should.
So here's what needs to be said about the latest numbers: yes, we're doing a bit better, but no, things are not O.K. -- not remotely O.K. This is still a terrible economy, and policy makers should be doing much more than they are to make it better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (67%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



229 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2333 words

HEADLINE: Ron Paul's Flinty Worldview Was Forged in Early Family Life

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Kitty Bennett and Kate Welsh contributed research.

 BODY:
His parents married two days before the crash of 1929. He was reared on nightmarish stories of currency that proved worthless, told by relatives whose patriarch had fled Germany in the dark of night when his debts were about to ruin him.
Hard times, and fear of worse, were constants in Ron Paul's boyhood home. His father and mother worked tirelessly running a small dairy, and young Ron showed the same drive -- delivering The Pittsburgh Press, mowing lawns, scooping ice cream as a soda jerk. He also embraced their politics, an instinctive conservatism that viewed Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman as villains and blamed Democrats for getting America into wars.
As a young doctor in training, dissecting cadavers or practicing surgery on dogs, he would tell all who would listen about how the country was headed down the wrong path, about the urgency of a strict gold standard and about the dangers of allowing government too much power over people's lives.
''Once that got ingrained, that became his religion,'' said his brother Jerrold, a minister and a psychotherapist. ''He says he preaches the 'gospel of freedom' -- that's the money quote. Politics became his crusade.'' 
But for the silver hair, the baggy eyes and the grandchildren, the 76-year-old man running for president today -- carrying the torch for a gold-based currency, agitating to ''end the Fed,'' warning of threats to personal freedom and prophesying imminent economic collapse -- is almost indistinguishable from the Ron Paul of half a century ago.
Supporters and detractors often marvel at his consistency since entering politics in 1974, citing it as evidence of either levelheadedness or lunacy. It contrasts sharply with some of the rivals he is trailing in the Republican primaries, including Mitt Romney, who is often accused of ideological flip-flopping.
While the Austrian economists who deeply influenced Mr. Paulhave gone in and out of fashion among conservatives, his own fidelity to them has never wavered. Even hisinvestmentportfolio, nearly two-thirds of which is in gold and precious-metal stocks, shows the same commitment to principle -- not to mention preparation for a financial catastrophe.
Now, with a solid third-place showing in Nevada and ardent grass-roots support expected to help him in caucuses in Colorado and Minnesota, Mr. Paul is likely to command greater attention for his inimitable mix of doom-saying and doses of folksy, homespun humor. But to Mr. Paul, his candidacy is just another step in a lifelong quest ''to find the plain truth of things.''
''I like to think that's what I do,'' he said in an interview. ''Imperfectly -- but most people don't even care. Do you listen to these debates? Are they seeking the plain truth of things? I think that's why people sense I'm somewhat different.''
What jumps out most from interviews with Mr. Paul and scores of his relatives, friends and colleagues is not only how different his ideas are, but also how early in life he developed his worldview -- one that appears to have guided nearly every political and financial move he has made ever since.
Hard Times, Hard Work
Social Security, a pillar of the New Deal, was signed into law a week before Ronald Ernest Paul was born in 1935. But his family believed Roosevelt's economic policies were a threat to capitalism and an affront to the values of hard work and private charity.
From a young age, Ron, the third of five, and his four brothers earned pennies picking raspberries that their grandfather, a farmer, sold in Pittsburgh, and plucking dirty milk bottles from the crates of empties in their basement. Yet they saw their parents let customers short on cash slide on paying their bills for months at a time.
''I think Ron reflects that,'' Jerrold Paul said. ''He's fiscally frugal, but he's also a generous guy.''
Raising five sons born in the space of seven years, Howard and Margaret Paul worked every day but Christmas, spoke English at home but swore at their sons in German and were the last in the neighborhood to buy a TV set.
''We were poor, but we didn't know it,'' said David Paul, a brother who, like Jerrold, is a Lutheran minister (the other two brothers are a retired math professor and an accountant).
The boys were free to do what they wanted, up to a point. When Billy Graham brought his crusade to downtown Pittsburgh, Ron, a teenager, headed off to the revival on his own. But when he shot a BB gun at a neighbor's passing car, he lost the gun for good.
His parents did not impose their politics on their sons. But family lore about hyperinflation, property as the safest investment and a great-grandfather's escape from crushing debt in 19th-century Germany all made an impression. As did a grade-school janitor who hired young Ron to paint the walls and ranted about bankers being ''the source of our problems,'' as Mr. Paul recalled in one of his books.
Wartime rationing also left a mark. When he saw a local butcher shop ignoring the rules on Saturdays and selling ''all the meat you wanted, at a price,'' Mr. Paul wrote, it was ''my first real-life experience in the free market solving problems generated by government mischief.''
A high school athlete -- he wrestled opponents 20 pounds heavier and won the Pennsylvania championship in the 220-yard dash -- he was offered a full athletic scholarship to the University of Pittsburgh, even after an injury and crude surgery severely damaged his knee. But he turned down the offer, saying it would be wrong to accept given his doubts that he could compete. In private, he despaired of ever racing again -- and railed against a God who, as he told Jerrold, ''would give me something and then take it away.''
He went off instead to Gettysburg College, where he paid his way washing dishes and managing a campus coffee shop, the Bullet Hole. His brothers in Lambda Chi Alpha took note of his rectitude. ''You'd go out for a beer, and he'd have a Coke,'' said James Fuller, a classmate. ''He never missed church. He was a very straight shooter.''
''Peer pressure wasn't going to change him,'' said Samuel Blackwell, another classmate. The same went for his politics. Mr. Fuller said he pegged Mr. Paul as ''to the right of Attila the Hun.'' Others said he was so opinionated that the fraternity's cook -- a local farmer and a liberal Democrat -- took delight in goading him into political arguments.
Mr. Paul was pre-med, but he gravitated to economics and political science classes, though he said his college instructors mainly caused him to doubt his own instincts. ''They were always trying to beat them out of me,'' he said.
By the time he graduated, Mr. Paul was sprinting again (he is tied for fifth on Gettysburg's all-time list in two sprint events) and had married Carol Wells, who had asked him to escort her to her 16th birthday party. He had never dated anyone else.
Life-Changing Books
At the Duke School of Medicine, the Pauls had the first two of their five children. But even with the demands of medical school and a family, Mr. Paul found time to plow through ''Atlas Shrugged'' and ''Doctor Zhivago,'' new best sellers that would inspire generations of conservatives and libertarians.
If the Ron Paul who had arrived at Gettysburg was a bundle of visceral conservative political impulses in search of an intellectual framework, he found it at Duke through his extracurricular reading.
It was ''The Road to Serfdom'' by Friedrich Hayek that became the ur-text of Mr. Paul's emerging ideology, introducing him to Austrian economics and its Manichaean choice between laissez-faire capitalism and a government-run economy destined for disaster. (Mainstream economists have long dismissed the Austrian school, but it retains a devoted following among libertarians and some conservatives.)
On his visits home, his brothers noticed, Mr. Paul began sharing what he was learning. His father, a man with an eighth-grade education and a steel handshake, and his mother, who dreamed of teaching but never attended college, beamed with approval. ''My parents would say, 'He really articulates what we think,' '' Jerrold Paul remembered. ''What was instinctive for them became intellectual for him.''
Fellow medical students, too, still remember his exhortations about the gold standard and the encroaching welfare state. ''He believed in not too much federal government,'' said Siegfried Smith, a classmate. ''And this was a time when we didn't have a lot.''
Jerrold Paul, who said he broke with his brother politically over Ron's early advocacy for Barry M. Goldwater, recalled that Ron -- who today opposes foreign aid and military intervention of almost any kind -- also started adopting nationalist, or at least noninternationalist, views. When Jerrold announced plans to move to Egypt as a missionary in 1959, he said, Ron urged him to reconsider, saying, ''We need people in this country.''
The young Dr. Paul worked as an intern in Detroit before being drafted as an Air Force flight surgeon around the time of the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962.After two years based in San Antonio, where he befriended two doctors who regularly invested in silver dollars, he returned to Pittsburgh for a residency in obstetrics and gynecology at Magee-Womens Hospital.
Abortion was still illegal, but, increasingly, legal exceptions were being made for psychiatric reasons. Mr. Paul traces his opposition to the procedure to the time when he wandered into an operating room there and saw a pregnancy terminated by Caesarean section, with a 2-pound fetus, delivered alive, left in a corner to try to breathe, try to cry, and die.
Other co-workers from that time, however, recalled that women butchered by back-alley abortionists were frequent patients; some did not survive. Mr. Paul said he never came across such a patient in his three years.
Despite long hours and heavy demands, Mr. Paul never lacked the energy to preach, recalled Dr. Sheldon Weinstein, a fellow obstetrics and gynecology trainee.
''He was always talking about how much gold there was in Fort Knox, how we shouldn't be in Vietnam,'' Dr. Weinstein said. ''For me, it was novel -- he was an oddball. He was worried about the monetary system; I didn't have any pennies, let alone dollars.''
Planning for the Worst
Dr. Weinstein and other residents recalled whispering that Mr. Paul must be a member of the John Birch Society, the ultraconservative group whose views on the monetary system, economics and foreign policy Mr. Paul has described as much like his own.
Mr. Paul denies ever belonging to the group, though he was listed as a subscriber to its magazine, American Opinion, according to Birch records in Brown University's archives. And when he planned his first run for office in 1974, he has said, the first person he called for advice was Larry McDonald, a right-wing congressman who was later president of the group. Mr. Paul and the John Birch Society are also 50-50 co-owners of a 3.8-acre property in Sweeny, Tex., that was bequeathed to them by a constituent of the congressman who died in 2010; Mr. Paul's campaign said it was surprised by the gift, and the group said the property would be sold off. In the interview, Mr. Paul said he parted ways with the John Birch Society over its emphasis on conspiracy theories -- ''that 12 or 15 people for hundreds of years get together and plan the world.''
But he hastened to say that conservatives' rejection of the society, as far back as the 1960s, was wrong. ''I've known these people, and I saw them as mostly strict constitutionalists,'' he said. ''To turn that into something radical and mean is not fair.''
Mr. Paul jumped at the chance to return to Texas in 1968 after learning of an obstetrician who was retiring in an area with no competition. The leap paid off. Before long, he had amassed a farm outside town, an Olympic-size swimming pool, a beach house and other real estate investments.
In 1971, however, President Richard M. Nixon's abandonment of the gold standard propelled Mr. Paul to buy gold for the first time -- and to embark on a new career. He saw it as a ''declaration of bankruptcy for our country,'' he later wrote.
The so-called Nixon Shock was an unimaginably grave threat to ultraconservatives, said Chip Berlet, a historian of the ultra-right wing. Many ''saw it as a sign that a conspiracy had penetrated the Republican Party -- as subversion from within,'' he said.
Mr. Paul ran for Congress in 1974 and lost, then won a special election in 1976. To keep up his medical practice, he took on a young partner, Jack Pruett.
In their first meeting, Dr. Paul laid down two conditions: They would perform no elective abortions, and they would not participate in Medicare or Medicaid. They treated poor women at a discount or free, Dr. Pruett said, sometimes receiving vegetables or eggs instead of cash.
But Mr. Paul's mind remained focused elsewhere. His medical office was lined with economics textbooks, Dr. Pruett recalled. And when they closed the books one year and found that they had $60,000 left over to split, Mr. Paul proposed that they invest in gold coins.
''I still have my Krugerrands,'' Dr. Pruett said. ''We paid $132 apiece. They're worth about $2,000 today.''
Mr. Paul continues to invest according to his principles, and he has outperformed the stock market. From 2001 to 2011, his holdings in gold, silver, mining companies and other bets on an economic collapse more than doubled in value, an analysis of his Congressional disclosures suggests, to between $1.6 million and $3.5 million. His entire portfolio is now worth between $2.4 million and $5.4 million.
He also continues to maintain his medical license, for the same apocalyptic reason that he urges young people to learn a trade. ''That is the ultimate protection,'' he said, even safer than stockpiling gold. ''Even if you have to live in a totalitarian society, somebody's going to want your skills.''
The Long Run: Articles in this series are exploring the lives and careers of the candidates for president in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ron Paul as a medical student at Duke University in 1961. (A1)
In 1979, Ron Paul, right of sign, and other members of Congress stood on a truckload of simulated gold bricks to show their opposition to giving up the Panama Canal. But for Mr. Paul, the interest in gold went deeper, especially after President Richard M. Nixon abandoned the gold standard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAUGHERTY/ASSOCIATED PRESS FILE)
 Mr. Paul, a Texas Republican, greeting supporters at the Iowa straw poll last August. ''People sense I'm somewhat different,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FAMILY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); RELIGION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); PANAMA (79%); AUSTRIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



230 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM JERUSALEM; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: When Talk of War Transcends Idle Chatter

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Israelis like to say that when it comes to military and security operations, those who know don't talk, and those who talk don't know. But the intense and increasingly public debate about whether to attack Iran's nuclear facilities is challenging that piece of conventional wisdom.
The standard view has been that successful attacks rely on secrecy and surprise, so the more talk there is about an operation, the less likely it will occur. 
One year ago, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu seemed to support that theory. He told foreign journalists that Iran briefly stopped working on a nuclear weapon only once, in 2003, because that was when the United States attacked Iraq, and Iran feared it might be next.
''The paradox,'' Mr. Netanyahu said then, ''is that if there is a credible military option, you won't have to use it.''
In other words, the more noise you make about war, the less likely you will have to resort to it.
But few who have spent time with Israel's decision makers in recent months have come away believing that the talk of a military assault is merely a well-scripted act of public diplomacy. It is that, to be sure, but there is more. It is also a window into the government's thinking.
Israel believes that its threats to attack Iran have been the catalyst that has pushed much of the world to agree to harsh sanctions on Iran's energy and banking sectors, sanctions that otherwise would not have been agreed to. It believes further that the Iranian economy is fragile and the popularity of the Tehran government is low, so that there is a small chance the sanctions could force a change of policy or a political crisis in Iran.
But Israel's top leaders also worry that the sanctions are too late and that, in the end, a military assault is the only way to accomplish their goal -- stopping Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. So the talk in this crisis is not made instead of action, but in addition to it -- and perhaps as a prelude to it.
This was clear again last Thursday evening when the defense minister, Ehud Barak, spoke publicly about what he viewed as the existential nature of the Iranian issue. He said the decisions he and his colleagues faced today were ''no less fateful'' than those facing the Zionist leaders who founded Israel in 1948 or those just before and during the wars of 1967 and 1973.
''The leader has to decide when to act and when to wait, when and what to declare and when to keep silent,'' Mr. Barak told the annual Herzliya Conference devoted to Israel's security.
He said that never in Israel's history had a topic of such import been debated with such thoroughness and frankness as this one. An Iran with nuclear weapons, he asserted, would be ''far more complex, dangerous and costly in blood and money than stopping it today would be.''
''Those who say 'later,' may find that later is too late,'' he warned, and added, ''We mean what we say.''
Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian purposes only, but the United States, European states and Israel believe that Iran's goal is to build weapons. Israel is more worried than the others, however, because Iran has singled it out, calling it a ''tumor'' that should be removed, and the government in Tehran finances and arms violent anti-Israel groups.
Opinions in Israel, however, are far from unanimous on the idea of an assault. The military establishment is unenthusiastic, and that includes several of the most important generals, active and retired. Many reject the conclusion that Mr. Barak and Mr. Netanyahu have embraced, that an Israeli attack would produce only a limited and bearable conflict.
Alex Fishman, a military analyst for the newspaper Yediot Aharonot, wrote on Sunday that a former commander of the air force, Gen. Eitan Ben-Eliahu, likened the situation to the Cuban missile crisis of 1962 when President John F. Kennedy threatened to bomb Cuba if Soviet nuclear missiles were not removed from there.
The Cuban crisis stood on three legs, he said: a naval blockade imposed on Cuba by the United States, military threats and a diplomatic channel of dialogue that allowed the Soviets ultimately to back down. The Iranian crisis, General Ben-Eliahu was quoted as saying, has two of those legs -- sanctions and military threats -- but it is far from clear that it has the needed diplomatic channel.
The discussion here of an Israeli attack has grown so loud lately that some now worry that it has become counterproductive as a diplomatic tool. Amos Yadlin, a retired general who used to direct military intelligence in Israel, said on the radio on Sunday that it was time to quiet that talk.
''These statements have reached the point where they have crossed the line from bringing benefit and are beginning to cause damage,'' he said. ''I'll give you an example. I saw on an Iranian Web site this morning thoughts like, 'If this is the situation, maybe we should attack first.' I think there is a danger of escalation that will get out of control. Right now we should do what Israel knows how to do well -- keep quiet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ehud Barak, the defense minister, has warned about Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC PIERMONT/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%)

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (78%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (74%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



231 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Blankfein To Support Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief of Goldman Sachs who has become a lightning rod for Wall Street critics, might seem an unlikely advocate for same-sex marriage. But his credentials - a public figure in a conservative industry - could make him a powerful voice for that cause.
The Human Rights Campaign, a national organization that promotes equal rights for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people, has persuaded Mr. Blankfein to be its first national corporate spokesman for same-sex marriage, an issue that will come up for a legislative vote in several states this year, including Washington and Maryland. Fred Sainz, an executive with the Human Rights Campaign, said the organization sought Mr. Blankfein, in part, because he is ''an unexpected messenger.'' 
''Lloyd Blankfein is not someone average Americans would think is going to support marriage equality,'' Mr. Sainz said. ''The green visor crowd is not typically associated with socially progressive policies, and this is further proof that a diversity of Americans are coming to the same conclusion.''
With this national campaign, Mr. Blankfein is stepping onto a prominent and politically charged stage - at a time when his public persona is suffering. In recent years, he has been pilloried for outsize pay packages and rewarding the type of risk-taking that led to the financial crisis.
As the tumult fades, industry watchers are wondering about his second act. Mr. Blankfein, who has run Goldman since 2006, is one of the longest-tenured chief executives on Wall Street, and speculation is mounting that he will hand over the reins to a deputy this year.
Although he has long supported same-sex marriage, his move could be seen as a public relations play, albeit one with unclear results. The affiliation with a liberal organization could also alienate conservatives who do business with the firm.
Through a spokesman, Mr. Blankfein declined to comment.
Paul A. Argenti, a professor of corporate communication at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, says Mr. Blankfein's decision isn't likely to have any positive impact on the reputation of the firm - or Mr. Blankfein.
''If you are a Goldman employee and you are gay or contemplating coming out, this is great,'' he said. But for Goldman and Mr. Blankfein, the issue of same-sex marriage has nothing to do with what Goldman Sachs does. ''If Mr. Blankfein was taking a radical stand on pay you could say wow, that's big. But equality is simply not an issue you associate with Goldman.''
Still, the campaign is sure to turn heads on Wall Street, which despite having made progress on equality issues over the last decade, is still considered to be a male-dominated, testosterone-driven place.
Behind the scenes, Mr. Blankfein has long been a supporter of same-sex marriage. Last year, he signed a letter urging state lawmakers to vote for a bill legalizing same-sex marriage and encouraged other chief executives to do the same. He also called lawmakers directly on the matter. The New York Legislature passed the law last summer.
Under Mr. Blankfein's guidance, Goldman has also pushed employment policies that promote equality. It reimburses employees for the extra taxes they pay on domestic partner benefits. In 2002, the company made headlines for offering gender reassignment operations to employees.
At a dinner on Saturday in New York the Human Rights Campaign awarded Goldman its corporate equality award.
Now, Mr. Blankfein is taking his support one step further by speaking out on the issue.
''Most of the firms on the Fortune 500 list have all the right policies but when you ask them to take a public stance 99 percent are not willing to do it,'' said Todd G. Sears, a former Merrill Lynch stockbroker turned diversity advisor, who runs an industry group called Out on the Street.
The Human Rights Campaign approached Mr. Blankfein in November through a gay executive at Goldman, and he was immediately receptive to the idea, according to people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak publicly. As part of a national effort, Mr. Blankfein, wearing a crisp white shirt and red-patterned tie, appears in 32-second Web spot intended to drum up support and donations.
''I'm Lloyd Blankfein, chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs, and I support marriage equality,'' Mr. Blankfein says in the spot, which was recorded at the bank's headquarters in downtown Manhattan. ''America's corporations learned long ago that equality is just good business and is the right thing to do.''
For years, the organization has attracted a notable list of representatives, including Barbara Bush, the daughter of the former President George W. Bush, and the hockey player Sean Avery. Steve Tisch, a businessman and co-owner of the New York Giants, took part in a campaign to legalize gay marriage in New York last year.
But Mr. Blankfein's participation is part of a new national effort by the Human Rights Campaign to enlist atypical advocates. One set of videos highlighted prominent black Americans, a demographic with especially low support for same-sex marriage. Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark and the comedian and actress Mo'Nique were among the African-Americans who participated. Mr. Blankfein is the first corporate chieftain to represent the organization.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, is stepping onto a prominent and politically charged stage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); MARRIAGE (91%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); MEN (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



232 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Steal This Column

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
AMONG the wonders of the Internet, Wikipedia occupies a special place. From its birth 11 years ago it has professed, and has tried reasonably hard to practice, a kind of idealism that stands out in the vaguely, artificially countercultural ambience of Silicon Valley. Google's informal corporate mantra -- ''Don't Be Evil'' -- has become ever more cringe-making as the company pursues its world conquest. Though Bill Gates has applied his personal wealth to noble causes, nobody thinks of Microsoft as anything but a business. I marvel at Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg and his acolytes; but I marvel at their imagination and industry, not what the new multibillionaire described last week as their ''social mission.'' But Wikipedia, while it has grown something of a bureaucratic exoskeleton, remains at heart the most successful example of the public-service spirit of the wide-open Web: nonprofit, communitarian, comparatively transparent, free to use and copy, privacy-minded, neutral and civil. 
Like many people, I was an early doubter that a volunteer-sourced encyclopedia could be trusted, but I'm a convert. Although I find errors (a spot check of the entries for myself and my father the other day found minor inaccuracies in both, which I easily corrected), I use it more than any other Web tool except my search engines, and because I value it, I donate to its NPR-style fund-raising campaign.
So as I followed the latest battle in the great sectarian war over the governing of the Internet -- the attempt to curtail online piracy -- I was startled to see that Wikipedia's founder and philosopher, Jimmy Wales, who generally stays out of the political limelight, had assumed a higher profile as a combatant for the tech industry. He supplied an aura of credibility to a libertarian alliance that ranged from the money-farming Megatrons of Google to the hacker anarchists of Anonymous.
Et tu, Jimmy?
For those of you who have not followed this subject -- or who, like me, regard phrases like ''Net neutrality'' as Novocain for the brain -- the latest skirmish concerns the rampant online theft of songs, films, books and other content. Separate bills advancing in the House and Senate would have given the government new tools to go after digital bootleggers. The central purpose of the legislation -- rather lost in the rhetorical cross-fire and press coverage -- was to extend the copyright laws that already protect content-creators in the U.S. to offshore havens where the most egregious pirates have set up shop. Like most people who make their living the way I do, I think parasite Web sites should be treated with the same contempt as people who pick pockets or boost cars.
But the legislation in question, drafted by the once-mighty entertainment industries, was vague and ham-handed, a case of overreach by Hollywood's lobbyists. In the journalistic equivalent of taking a bullet for you, I read all 78 staggeringly dull pages of the House version, called SOPA. Interpreted in the most draconian way, it might have criminalized innocent sites and messed with the secure plumbing of the Internet itself. The partisans of an unfettered Internet saw their moment, and seized it. They unleashed a wave of protest that included much waving of the First Amendment and an attention-grabbing blackout of Wikipedia, the company's most conspicuous foray into protest politics. The legislation is dead, and proponents of the open Web have shown that they are the new power in Washington.
The question is, how will they use their muscle now? Does this smackdown mean that any attempt to police the Web for thievery is similarly doomed?
Jimmy Wales, when I connected with him in London, was the voice of reason compared with some members of the openness alliance. He disavows the hacker anarchists -- whose most recent stunt to protest enforcement of the copyright laws was to sabotage the Justice Department Web site -- as ''incredibly counterproductive.'' He said he believes copyright protection is ''unquestionably good'' but that enforcement should focus on serious criminal enterprises, not the music fan who burns a copy for a friend or the search engine that merely offers the link to a bad place. (Agreed.) He worries that, under too-sweeping legislation, a site like Wikipedia could be punished because its very informative article about the aptly named site ''The Pirate Bay'' includes a link to the offending destination. (That kind of prosecutorial overkill seems unlikely, but it would be appalling.)
Wales thinks the current copyright protections -- which require publishers, broadcasters and other content-makers to watch out for piracy of their own material and notify Internet hosts to take it down -- work fine in the U.S. He grants that enforcement in foreign countries is a problem, but he opposes as burdensome and stifling any effort to make search engines or other intermediaries filter what flows through them.
Wales is not endorsing legislation yet, but he had positive things to say about an alternative bill, one that has won support from some tech companies and Internet freedom groups. The so-called OPEN Act would give new powers to the International Trade Commission to issue temporary restraining orders against sites that specialize in selling bootleg copies of books, movies, TV shows and so on, and to cut off their access to the online payment processors and ad-placing services that fund them.
I read those 44 pages, too, and the best that can be said about the law -- drafted by the improbable left-right duo of Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, and Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican -- is that it's a start. An impartial copyright expert who examined the bill at my request pointed out many loopholes and ambiguities that could make enforcement cumbersome and easily evaded. And personally, I'd go beyond OPEN (and Jimmy Wales) to give the intermediaries -- search engines, online sharing services -- greater responsibility to police what passes through their sites, rather than obliging the victim to do all the work.
''Google can remove sites from its search results for causing too much spam; why not for piracy?'' said Robert Levine, whose 2011 book, ''Free Ride,'' is a wonderfully clear-eyed account of this colossal struggle over the future of our cultural lives.
But the OPEN Act is at least something to build on, and its sponsors have indicated they are flexible. The music and motion-picture industries should be reaching out to the saner members of the tech industry to collaborate in making it better, instead of demonizing it as if it were written by Blackbeard himself. The online industry is not a monolith. Internet companies that have made fortunes building paid venues -- Apple (proprietor of iTunes) and Microsoft (Xbox Live) and Netflix, among others -- have been pretty quiet during the angry backlash against copyright laws. They have a financial stake in protecting intellectual property.
''Basically, we need some serious reform,'' Wales told me. ''Everything should be on the table. But it's not a war; it's a giant public policy question.''
Ah, Jimmy, Jimmy, there's the rub. These days in Washington, everything is a war. This is a complicated subject that has been turned into simplistic sloganeering by rival vested interests dressed up as the saviors of freedom.
When the founders enshrined free speech in the Constitution, they did not mean ''free'' in the sense of Wikipedia. As Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote in an important 1985 Supreme Court decision supporting intellectual property rights: ''the Framers intended copyright itself to be the engine of free expression. By establishing a marketable right to the use of one's expression, copyright supplies the economic incentive to create and disseminate ideas.''
Content-makers would be crazy to let the Internet be stunted as a force for invention, mobilization and shared wisdom. It's the sea we all swim in.
At the same time, online companies would be crazy to let piracy kill off the commerce that supplies quality material upon which even free sites like Wikipedia depend.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS BLECHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET CRIME (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COPYRIGHT LAW (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); COMPUTER CRIME (68%); COPYRIGHT (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); JIMMY WALES (78%); BILL GATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



233 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Egypt Defies U.S. by Setting Trial for 19 Americans

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy El Sheikh contributed reporting from Cairo, and Steven Lee Myers and Scott Shane from Washington.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Egypt's military-led government said Sunday that it would put 19 Americans and two dozen others on trial in a politically charged criminal investigation into the foreign financing of nonprofit groups that has shaken the 30-year alliance between the United States and Egypt.
The decision raises tensions between the two allies to a new peak at a decisive moment in Egypt's political transition after the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak a year ago. Angry protesters are battling security forces in the streets of the capital and other major cities. The economy is in urgent need of billions of dollars in foreign aid. And the military rulers are in the final stages of negotiations with the Islamists who dominate the new Parliament over the terms of a transfer of power that could set the country's course for decades. 
The criminal prosecution is a rebuke to Washington in the face of increasingly stern warnings to Egypt's ruling generals from President Obama, cabinet officials and senior Congressional leaders that it could jeopardize $1.55 billion in expected American aid this year, including $1.3 billion for the military. But for Washington, revoking the aid would risk severing the tie that for three decades has bound the United States, Egypt and Israel in an uneasy alliance that is the cornerstone of the American-backed regional order.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said she had personally warned the Egyptian foreign minister, Mohammed Amr, at a security conference in Munich on Saturday that the continuing investigation of the nonprofit groups cast new doubt on the aid. ''We are very clear that there are problems that arise from this situation that can impact all the rest of our relationship with Egypt,'' she told reporters there.
Mr. Obama delivered a similar warning to Egypt's acting chief executive, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, less than two weeks ago. Last week, 40 members of Congress signed letters to Field Marshal Tantawi making the same threat. ''The days of blank checks are over,'' Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the Democrat who chairs the spending panel overseeing the aid, said in a speech from the Senate floor on Friday.
Congress recently required the State Department to certify that Egypt is making progress toward democracy before aid can be disbursed. Lawmakers and administration officials say the crackdown on the civil society groups could violate the criteria set out in the law.
The prosecution could hardly have been better designed to provoke an American backlash. Although the charges against the 19 Americans are part of a broader crackdown on as many as nine nonprofit groups here, its most prominent targets are two American-financed groups with close ties to the Congressional leadership, the National Democratic Institute and the International Republican Institute. Both are chartered to promote democracy abroad with nonpartisan training and election monitoring.
The Americans facing criminal charges include Sam LaHood, director of the Republican Institute's Egypt operations. He is the son of Ray LaHood, the secretary of transportation and a former Republican congressman from Illinois.
Egyptian Foreign Ministry officials have said the prosecution is a judicial matter outside their control. But the government, including the prosecutors, is under the direct authority of the military council. The investigation has also been accompanied by an escalating drumbeat of anti-American statements from Egypt's government suggesting that Washington has been handing out cash to stir unrest in the streets. Some state news media, citing unnamed sources, have reported that one of the foreign-financed organizations paid illiterate laborers to join protests.
So far, the warnings from Washington appear to have only redoubled the determination of Egyptian authorities. At a news conference here on Sunday, Faiza Abu el-Naga, who oversees foreign aid, declared that the government ''will not be pulling the plug'' on the case, the state newspaper Al Ahram reported on its Web site.
''The government will not hesitate to expose foreign schemes that threaten the stability of the homeland,'' she said.
Western diplomats have often observed that previous Egyptian governments facing public doubts at home have found it expedient to rally support by stoking feuds with Washington, which, despite its financial largess, is deeply resented here because of its support for Israel and its invasion of Iraq.
But many human rights advocates here say some members of the council may believe their contention that ''foreign hands'' are stirring up trouble. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a former general close to the military council insisted that Washington was seeking to destabilize Egypt by illegally financing youth activists.
Reports of the charges first appeared Sunday in state news media outlets. Representatives of the Justice Ministry could not be reached for comment.
A lawyer representing the Republican Institute and other groups under investigation said he had not received official notification. ''I don't know what's going on,'' said the lawyer, Negad el-Boraei. ''Is it a psychological battle of some kind directed against the Americans?''
In Washington, a State Department spokesman said the United States was ''deeply concerned'' by reports of the charges and was ''seeking clarification from the government of Egypt.''
Two other American groups backed in part by American government money, Freedom House and a journalism institute, are also part of the investigation, along with a German group and at least four Egyptian organizations that rely on foreign financing.
Of the 43 people facing charges, 19 are American, 16 are Egyptian, and 8 are of other nationalities, a Justice Ministry official said Sunday.
They have been charged with violating legal restrictions on nonprofit groups left over from Mr. Mubarak's government that in effect kept virtually every independent civil society organization here in a kind of legal twilight subject to raids and arrests at any time.
The laws required licenses that were almost never granted, effectively precluded domestic financing and exerted government control over foreign contributions.
Neither the National Democratic Institute nor the International Republican Institute was licensed. But last fall, both were formally invited here as official observers of the parliamentary elections.
In December, prosecutors raided the offices of as many as nine nonprofit groups, including the four American organizations, confiscating money, computers and files and shutting down their operations. In January, the authorities imposed a travel ban on at least six Americans, including Mr. LaHood, and several Europeans.
Last week, the State Department acknowledged that its embassy in Cairo had given shelter to at least three Americans caught by the travel ban and fearing arrest.
On Sunday, the Egyptian authorities extended the travel ban to all 43 people facing charges, The Associated Press reported. But by the end of Sunday, there were still no reports of arrests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); ELECTION MONITORING (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); EGYPT (95%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



234 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Deal Is Closer For a U.S. Plan On Mortgages

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
With a deadline looming on Monday for state officials to sign onto a landmark multibillion-dollar settlement to address foreclosure abuses, the Obama administration is close to winning support from a crucial state that would significantly expand the breadth of the deal.
The biggest remaining holdout, California, has returned to the negotiating table after a four-month absence, a change of heart that could increase the pot for mortgage relief nationwide to $25 billion from $19 billion. 
Another important potential backer, Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman of New York, has also signaled that he sees progress on provisions that prevented him from supporting it in the past.
The potential support from California and New York comes in exchange for tightening provisions of the settlement to preserve the right to investigate past misdeeds by banks, and stepping up oversight to ensure that the financial institutions live up to the deal and distribute the money to the hardest-hit homeowners.
The settlement would require banks to provide billions of dollars in aid to homeowners who have lost their homes to foreclosure or who are still at risk, after years of failed attempts by the White House and other government officials to alter the behavior of the biggest banks.
The banks -- led by the five biggest mortgage servicers, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally Financial -- want to settle an investigation into abuses set off in 2010 by evidence that they foreclosed on borrowers with only a cursory examination of the relevant documents, a practice known as robo-signing. Four million families have lost their homes to foreclosure since the beginning of 2007.
As recently as two weeks ago, with federal officials hoping to complete a deal that President Obama could cite in his State of the Union address, California's attorney general, Kamala Harris, made it clear she was not on board, terming the plan inadequate. But in the last few days, differences have narrowed in negotiations that one participant described as round the clock, with California officials in direct communication with bank representatives for the first time in months.
''For the past 13 months we have been working for a resolution that brings real relief to the hardest-hit homeowners, is transparent about who benefits, and will ensure accountability,'' Ms. Harris said in a statement. ''We are closer now than we've been before but we're not there yet.''
The settlement has been hamstrung by one delay after another over the last year. Winning California's support now would represent a major win for the White House in this election year.
''I am encouraged by the conversations we've had with many states in the last few days,'' said Shaun Donovan, the secretary of housing and urban development. ''This will be one of the most significant steps in the recovery of homeowners, neighborhoods and the broader housing market from the worst collapse since the Depression.''
''My fundamental point is that it's a first step,'' he added, citing measures like Mr. Obama's proposal last week to lower interest rates for homeowners who are still current on their mortgages.
Officials involved in the negotiations cautioned that broader state support could still be days away. And although the timing of any announcement is subject to last-minute maneuvering, as it stands now the deal would set aside up to $17 billion specifically to pay for principal reductions and other relief for up to one million borrowers who are behind on their payments but owe more than their houses are currently worth. The deal would also provide checks for about $2,000 to roughly 750,000 who lost homes to foreclosure.
Those figures are contingent upon the number who respond to the offer, which is likely to go to people who lost their homes between Jan. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2011. In addition, said Patrick Madigan, the Iowa assistant attorney general, homeowners who participate in the settlement will still have the right to sue the banks for improper behavior in the foreclosure process.
California has been focused on measures that would benefit individual homeowners, while New York has been most interested in preserving its ability to investigate the root causes of the financial collapse.
Another critical issue for California is narrowing the amnesty given to banks because under the state's False Claims Act, state officials and huge pension funds like Calpers would be able to collect sizable monetary damages from the banks if they could prove mortgages were improperly packaged into securities that later soured. What is more, California's participation would result in having more money available for many other states, including an estimated $500 million in additional money for Florida.
But the agreement's terms do not guarantee minimum allocations of mortgage relief by state.
Mr. Donovan added that there had been numerous discussions with individual states that had specific concerns.
California officials and other veterans of the foreclosure crisis are haunted by the failure of past attempts to alter the behavior of the big banks, including a 2008 deal with Countrywide Financial, the subprime giant now owned by Bank of America, and a more recent agreement last April between federal regulators and the biggest mortgage servicers.
The backers of the latest deal insist their plan has more teeth, with a powerful outside monitor to oversee enforcement and heavy monetary penalties if banks fail to live up to commitments. While the past agreement with Countrywide gave banks credit even if their offers to modify the interest rate of the mortgage or write down principal were not accepted by borrowers, this deal counts only what banks actually do for homeowners.
If banks fall short of the multibillion-dollar benchmarks set out for principal reduction and other benefits for homeowners, they will have to pay the difference plus a penalty of up to 40 percent directly to the federal government, according to Mr. Madigan.
The depressed housing market continues to pose a drag on the halting economic recovery. RealtyTrac, which analyzes housing data, predicts two million more foreclosures over the next two years. Some 11 million families owe more on their houses than they are worth.
The settlement, if all states participate, will also include $3 billion to lower the rates of mortgage holders who are current. Banks will get more credit for reducing principal owed and helping families keep their homes, and less for short sales or taking losses on loans that were likely to go bad, like those that were severely delinquent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (71%); FAMILY (64%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



235 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include consumer credit for December (Tuesday); weekly jobless claims and wholesale trade inventories for December (Thursday); and the trade deficit for December and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for February (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Humana and Yum Brands (Monday); Coca-Cola, Toyota Motor, UBS and Disney (Tuesday); CVS Caremark, Sprint Nextel, Time Warner, Cisco Systems, Groupon, News Corporation and Visa (Wednesday); Credit Suisse, KKR, Pepsico, Sirus XM Radio, Barclays and NYSE Euronext (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will testify before the Senate Budget Committee about the outlook for monetary and fiscal policy, and the Joint Economic Committee will conduct a hearing about reauthorization of the payroll tax cut (Tuesday). A House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing about the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Wednesday). President Obama will meet with Prime Minster Mario Monti of Italy to discuss the European debt crisis (Thursday). Mr. Bernanke will speak in Orlando, Fla., about the housing market at the National Association of Homebuilders International Builders' Show (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); DEBT CRISIS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); BUDGETS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); SATELLITE RADIO (55%)

COMPANY: SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (83%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (72%); NEWS CORP (71%); YUM! BRANDS INC (58%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (57%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); GROUPON INC (57%); PEPSICO INC (57%); XM SATELLITE RADIO INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); XM SATELLITE RADIO HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%)

TICKER: S (NYSE) (83%); CVS (NYSE) (72%); NWS (NASDAQ) (71%); NWS (ASX) (71%); YUM (NYSE) (58%); NYX (PAR) (57%); NYX (NYSE) (57%); TYT (LSE) (57%); TM (NYSE) (57%); 7203 (TSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (57%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (72%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (72%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (74%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012



236 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Keynesian Revisionism

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Academics down the memory hole. 

 BODY:
Hmm. A number of people who attacked Keynesian analysis vigorously seem to be in the process of backing off, which is good. But they also seem to be in the process of rewriting history, specifically the history of their own positions. So just a few notes about what actually happened.
Niall Ferguson now says, 
I think the issue here got a little confused, because Krugman wanted to portray me as a proponent of instant austerity, which I never was. My argument was that over ten years you have to have some credible plan to get back to fiscal balance because at some point you lose your credibility because on the present path, Congressional Budget Office figures make it clear, with every year the share of Federal tax revenues going to interest payments rises, there is a point after which it's no longer credible. But I didn't think that point was going to be this year or next year.
What he said then:
After all, $1.75 trillion is an awful lot of freshly minted treasuries to land on the bond market at a time of recession, and I still don't quite know who is going to buy them. It's certainly not going to be the Chinese. That worked fine in the good times, but what I call "Chimerica," the marriage between China and America, is coming to an end. Maybe it's going to end in a messy divorce.
No, the problem is that only the Fed can buy these freshly minted treasuries, and there is going to be, I predict, in the weeks and months ahead, a very painful tug-of-war between our monetary policy and our fiscal policy as the markets realize just what a vast quantity of bonds are going to have to be absorbed by the financial system this year. That will tend to drive the price of the bonds down, and drive up interest rates, which will also have an effect on mortgage rates-the precise opposite of what Ben Bernanke is trying to achieve at the Fed. 
Oh, and notice that his argument wasn't about solvency at all.
John Cochrane now says,
This is all ridiculous, of course. No, I -- and certainly Bob Lucas and Gene Fama -- am not making the "Say's law" fallacy. We all understand the difference between identities, budget constraints, and equilibrium conditions.
What he said then:
Every dollar of increased government spending must correspond to one less dollar of private spending. Jobs created by stimulus spending are offset by jobs lost from the decline in private spending. We can build roads instead of factories, but fiscal stimulus can't help us to build more of both1 . This form of "crowding out" is just accounting, and doesn't rest on any perceptions or behavioral assumptions.
And Tyler Cowen now says that he was making the case for New Keynesianism in a recent post that actually said, 
The big winners, apart from the American public?: real business cycle theory. 
Oh well. I guess we've always been at war with Eastasia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BOND MARKETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); JOB CREATION (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



237 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Students Pay a Premium at American Colleges

BYLINE: LILY ALTAVENA


HIGHLIGHT: International students make up a higher percentage of incoming students at state schools than in the past, and pay a disproportionate amount of tuition. 

 BODY:
Our colleague Tamar Lewin wrote a story in Sunday's New York Times about international students paying premium prices to attend colleges in the United States. Ms. Lewin focused on the University of Washington, where 18 percent of freshmen hail from abroad.
Ms. Lewin explains:
This is the University of Washington's new math: 18 percent of its freshmen come from abroad, most from China. Each pays tuition of $28,059, about three times as much as students from Washington State. And that, according to the dean of admissions, is how low-income Washingtonians - more than a quarter of the class - get a free ride.
With state financing slashed by more than half in the past three years, university officials decided to pull back on admissions offers to Washington residents, and increase them to students overseas.
That has rankled some local politicians and parents, a few of whom have even asked Michael K. Young, the university president, whether their children could get in if they paid nonresident tuition. "It does appeal to me a little," he said.
There is a widespread belief in Washington that internationalization is the key to the future, and Mr. Young said he was not at all bothered that there were now more students from other countries than from other states. (Out-of-state students pay the same tuition as foreign students.)
"Is there any advantage to our taking a kid from California versus a kid from China?" he said. "You'd have to convince me, because the world isn't divided the way it used to be."
If the university's reliance on full-freight Chinese students to balance the budget echoes the nation's dependence on China as the largest holder of American debt, well, said the dean of admissions, Philip A. Ballinger, "this is a way of getting some of that money back."
By the reckoning of the Institute of International Education, foreign students in the United States contribute about $21 billion a year to the national economy, including $463 million here in Washington State.

        
Rummaging the Bargain Bin for a Premier Public Education
        
A Student Changes Her College Plans Because of the Cost
        
Quirky Ways to Cut College Budgets
        
A Warning: Colleges Can Change Their Minds
        
More Roundup: Cuts in Sports Teams, and an Update from the New York Suburbs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); CHILDREN (73%) University of Washington; College Rankings; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



238 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: A Year After Folding, a Venerable Motor Sports Publication Readies Its Return

BYLINE: DAVE CALDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: National Speed Sport News, a staple of racing enthusiasts, is returning in March with a Web site, mobile updates and a monthly magazine, but without the long-running weekly newspaper. 

 BODY:
Turn 3 Media, based in North Carolina, recently announced the revival of the National Speed Sport News, the venerable weekly motor sports publication that shut down in March 2011. The core offering this time around, however, is a glossy monthly publication, Speed Sport magazine, augmented by a regularly updated Web site.
Although the economy and changing reading habits has doomed many racing newspapers, the demise of National Speed Sport News last year was particularly resonant, given the newspaper's reach and longevity. It carried news and, when available, photos, from virtually any dirt track open on a Saturday night. An era had passed.
"If the Sporting News was 'Baseball's Bible,' then Speed Sport was auto racing's Bible, Koran, Torah, Wall Street Journal and New York Times," Ed Hinton, a motorsports columnist, wrote on ESPN.com.
That reputation was built primarily by the newspaper's longest-running editor, Chris Economaki. Mr. Economaki was its editor long before he lent his voice, which crackled and growled like a racecar's engine, to motorsports broadcasts like ABC's "Wide World of Sports." His column, "From the Editor's Notebook," carried nuggets of news from racetracks on the national and local scenes.
At age 14, Mr. Economaki began selling copies of the newspaper at Ho-Ho-Kus Speedway, near his home in New Jersey, and he wrote his first column at 16. He eventually became the newspaper's editor in 1950. Citing rising costs, Mr. Economaki, at age 90, announced in a media release last March that the newspaper would cease publication. As Mr. Hinton noted, Mr. Economaki's column had run for 74 years.
The resurrected enterprise will be edited by Mike Kerchner, a reporter and former colleague of Mr. Economaki. The nitty-gritty local tracks -- like the newspapers that covered them, not as numerous as they used to be -- will be featured primarily on the Web site. News will also be available to subscribers on mobile devices and tablets.
"We listened to our fans -- and while most are getting race results and breaking news online these days, they still really wanted a print edition," Curt Moon, a founder of Turn 3 Media, said in a news release. The magazine begins publication in March; subscriptions are $24.95 a year for 12 issues. A digital edition of the magazine will be available for $12.95 year. Access to Nationalspeedsportnews.com will remain free.
A previous version of this post identified Curt Moon as the founder of Turn 3 Media. He is a co-founder, along with Joe Tripp and Ralph Sheheen. The text has been corrected.

        
Deaths End Dakar Rally Before It Begins
        
Monday Morning Motorsport
        
Nascar Still Second Fiddle to N.F.L.
        
Monday Morning Motorsports
        
Monday Morning Motorsports

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION (93%); RELIGION (91%); AUTO RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); WRITERS (77%); BASEBALL (73%); NASCAR RACING (71%) Chris Economaki; Motorsports; Racing; Automobile Racing; Automobiles; Newspapers; Industry News

COMPANY: ESPN INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



239 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Marriage Is for Rich People

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Dwindling marriage rates are concentrated among the poor -- the very people whose living standards would be most improved by having a second household income. 

 BODY:
The rich are different from you and me: they're more likely to get married.
A new report, by Michael Greenstone and Adam Looney of the Hamilton Project, looked at the decline in marriage rates over the last 50 years and found a strong connection to income. Dwindling marriage rates are concentrated among the poor -- the very people whose living standards would be most improved by having a second household income.
The trend is especially pronounced among men.
Forty years ago, about nine of 10 American men between the ages of 30 and 50 were married, and the most highly paid men were just slightly more likely to wed than those paid least. Since then, earnings for men in the top tenth of the income distribution have risen and their marriage rates have fallen slightly, from 95 percent in 1970 to 83 percent today.
For men further down the income ladder, however, both earnings and their chances of connubial bliss have plummeted.

In inflation-adjusted terms, the median earnings for men in that age group have fallen about 28 percent since 1970. In the same period, their marriage rates have fallen to 64 percent, from 91 percent.
The poorest men have had even sharper financial and romantic declines: men in the bottom quartile of earnings have had a wage cut of 60 percent, and a contemporaneous drop in marriage rates to about 50 percent, from 86 percent.
The decline in the share of men at all ages who are married is partly a result of higher divorce rates, but primarily because they never got married to begin with.
Economically, the last four decades have been a very different story for women. More women have entered the work force, and those in the work force have gotten raises. In 1970, the median annual earnings for female workers 30 to 50 were $19,000; in 2010 the corresponding figure reached about $30,000.
Marriage rates have also fallen for women in that age group on most, though not all, rungs of the income ladder. As with men, the declines are biggest among the poorest workers.
For the bottom 70 percent of middle-aged working women -- the women who, a generation earlier, would have needed a husband to support them -- marriage rates declined by more than 15 percentage points in the last 40 years. But marriage rates for the top 10 percent of female earners either held steady or rose.
It's not clear why marriage rates for the top-earning women rose. Perhaps the highest-paid female workers in the 1970s achieved that status by forgoing a personal life. And perhaps today it's more socially acceptable for well-paid women to hire nannies and other household help so that they can maintain a family life, making marriage a more practical possibility.
Whatever the case, the concentration of marriage among the richest Americans is amplifying the increase in income inequality.
Rich men are marrying rich women, creating doubly rich households for them and their children. And the poor are staying poor and alone.

        
Do College Grads Earn Less Now Than 40 Years Ago?
        
For Younger Women, a Smaller Wage Gap
        
Rising Family Income: More Work, Not Raises
        
The Economics of Men Behaving Badly
        
Inequality Rising Across the Developed World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (94%); MARRIAGE (92%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); LABOR FORCE (88%); MEN (78%); TRENDS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); EQUAL PAY (75%); GENDER EQUALITY (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (50%) Adam Looney; family economics; Hamilton Project; inequality; marriage; men in the workforce; Michael Greenstone; wage gap; women in the workforce; Marriages; Wages and Salaries

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



240 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: The Super Bowl and New York's Economy

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Economic research suggests that winning the Super Bowl improves the economy of the team's hometown, but only slightly. 

 BODY:
After the Super Bowl ended on Sunday, a friend asked me if I thought the Giants' victory would be good for the New York economy. A few economists have looked into this question, and the answer is probably yes, but if so, only to a small degree.
This2002 study (ungated earlier version here) by Dennis Coates and Brad R. Humphreys, both from the University of Maryland Baltimore County, seems to be the godfather of all this research.
That research found that the city of the winner of the Super Bowl experiences a statistically significant increase of roughly $140 in per capita income. The authors said this finding could be because of a "feel-good effect" upon locals that makes them more productive. But they fully admitted that the correlation could be a total fluke.
This 2005 paper, on the other hand, found that winning the Super Bowl is correlated with a smaller increase in income -- about $50 to $60 per capita -- but that the result is not statistically significant.

Yet another study-- written in 2008 by Michael C. Davis of the Missouri University of Science and Technology and Christian M. End of Xavier University -- suggests that not only does the Super Bowl increase per capita income modestly, but that merely improving the win-loss record for a N.F.L. team also appears to raise local incomes. The effect fades as a team gets better and better. The authors say they are not sure whether they would attribute this effect to greater spending or increased worker productivity.
All that said, lots of economic studies have found that it's not worth it for a city to subsidize the building of a new sports stadium if it is expecting the new stadium to improve the local economy. Generally speaking, the cost to taxpayers outweighs the local economic benefits. Other studies have found that being the site of a major sports event like the Super Bowl or the Olympics is also not a good economic investment.
For more on the economics of winning the Super Bowl, see this post from the Sports Economist blog.

        
Do Big-Time Sports Mean Big-Time Support for Universities?
        
Basketball Economics
        
From Federal Economic Policy to Football
        
Super Bowl Ad Breakdown
        
Revenge of the Rust Belt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); TRENDS (77%); WRITERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); SPORTS MARKETING (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); BASKETBALL (65%) football; return on investment; sports; sports economics; Super Bowl; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); XAVIER UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



241 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: A Chinese Challenge on Airline Emissions

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: China says it has instructed its airlines not to comply with European Union rules requiring carriers to pay to offset their emissions. 

 BODY:
China says it is barring its airlines from participating in a European Union system requiring carriers to pay for their carbon dioxide emissions when flying in or out of European airports. But a commission spokesman says the Chinese have already taken steps to comply. [Reuters]
Researchers find a more efficient way to harness photosynthesis to create solar energy. The notion is that custom-designed chemicals could be mixed with grass clippings, for example, to create an inexpensive photovoltaic material. [CNET] 
The president of Palau says his small island nation and others threatened by rising seas and climate change h are seeking to take the issue before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. [Associated Press]
Congress's most recent military appropriations legislation requires explicit justification for any spending on construction for energy-efficient LEED buildings beyond the lowest rating level. But an assistant secretary of the Army declares that it does not cost more to construct to LEED standards. "We're working to help prepare a report for Congress so they understand the benefit of high-performance buildings," she says. [Building Green]

        
On Our Radar: Chinese Airlines Defy Europe's Emissions Rules
        
A Challenge to Europe's Airline Emissions Curbs
        
On Our Radar: India's Warmest Year on Record
        
World Bank Will Help Finance Carbon Markets
        
Roman Decadence and Rising Seas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); AIRLINES (92%); SOLAR ENERGY (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); GREEN BUILDING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ARMIES (86%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); BIOMASS (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); OCEANS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); BIOFUELS (59%) airlines; army; carbon-dioxide emissions; China; European Union; Global Warming; International Court of Justice; islands; LEED; Palau; plants; rising seas; sea levels; solar cells; u.s. military; Air Pollution; Biofuels; Breaking News; climate change; Emissions Reduction; Oceans; renewable energy; Research/Studies; Science; Solar Energy

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (54%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); PALAU (92%); NETHERLANDS (88%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



242 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Should We Increase Requirements for Teenage Drivers?

BYLINE: JOHN O'NEIL


HIGHLIGHT: New Jersey considers adding a two-hour safety class for new teenage drivers - and their parents. 

 BODY:
Parents, is your work as an unpaid driving instructor done when your teenager gets a license? If you think so, here are some statistics that Pam Fischer, who oversees the New Jersey Teen Safe Driving Coalition, says you should know:

        
For teenage drivers, a single passenger raises the risk of a crash by 50 percent and doubles the risk of the driver dying in a crash; three passengers increase the risk of a crash by 200 percent.
        
Teenagers whose parents set rules and monitor their independent driving are half as likely to get into a crash as teenagers with no parental supervision; and they're 71 percent less likely to drive while intoxicated and 50 percent more likely to use their seat belts.
Ms. Fischer's safe driving coalition lobbied for a billthat was passed by the New Jersey Legislature in late December 2011 that would have required parents to attend a driving safety class before their child could be eligible for a license. (The bill was vetoed by Gov. Chris Christie, along with almost 50 other bills in what amounted to a collective rebuke of legislators for procrastinating, but its sponsors plan to reintroduce it this year.)
The bill, which also lengthened the permit period and increased the required hours of practice, was an attempt to have the law catch up with the reality that driver's education depends on parents more than ever, but without any mechanism for getting them engaged, Ms. Fischer said. The proposed change comes in the form of graduated drivers licensing, or G.D.L., under which new drivers face periods with curfews, passenger limits or other restrictions. States that have adopted these requirements have seen their crash rates for teenagers drop by 10 to 30 percent, according to Russ Rader of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. 
But while G.D.L. laws carry penalties for violating the restrictions, their effectiveness does not come primarily from the threat of arrest, Mr. Rader said. "Parental involvement is crucial to making graduated licensing systems work,'' he said, "because parents are the first line enforcers of the law."
To Ms. Fischer, what the graduated licensing does is "establish some minimum standards to help you really help your teens'' as they transition from supervised to independent driving. "It gives parents the hammer,'' she said, "because when a teen challenges a restriction, parents can say they have that law backing them up.''
But parents can't use that hammer if they don't understand it. Connecticut adopted a parent safety class requirement in 2008. The law is still producing some grousing from "parents who see it as one more hoop to jump through,'' said Bill Seymour, the director of communications for the state's Department of Motor Vehicles. But, he said, "the numbers are clear - deaths are dramatically down, accidents with injuries are dramatically down."
State figures show that crashes in Connecticut in which 16- or 17-year-old drivers were considered a contributing factor fell by 28 percent in the two years after the rules went into effect.
A Department of Motor Vehicles report in 2011 showed that the police have become more aggressive about making arrests for violations of curfew or passenger limit laws, with convictions of teenagers rising for those offenses - but falling sharply for speeding, not using seat belts, distracted driving and driving under the influence. And the percentage of 16- and 17-year-olds with licenses has fallen, although Mr. Seymour said that the economy has likely played a role, as well as the new laws.
Ms. Fischer has another response to parents who are reluctant to part with yet another 90 minutes of their time. "My son plays hockey,'' she said. "There's a mandatory parent meeting before the start of the season, and he can't play if I don't go."
"What's a higher priority?'' she asked. "He can get hurt playing hockey, but has a far higher risk of dying in a car crash.''

        
What Is Car Culture Doing to Our Children?
        
Does Heavy Media Use Make Girls Less Happy?
        
Why I Don't Rat Out My Son's Friends
        
When the Sex Offender Is a Teenager in Love
        
A Sunscreen Warning for Parents of Teenagers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (92%); DRIVER EDUCATION (90%); DRIVERS LICENSES (90%); DRIVING AGE (90%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PARENTING (79%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (74%); LOBBYING (74%); CURFEW (73%); VETO (68%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (62%) drivers licenses; graduated drivers licensing; teenagers; teenagers driving; Automobiles; Parenting; Teenagers and Adolescence; Traffic Accidents and Safety

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



243 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Wendell Berry to Give 2012 Jefferson Lecture

BYLINE: JENNIFER SCHUESSLER


HIGHLIGHT: The farmer-writer Wendell Berry is chosen to give the 2012 Jefferson Lecture in the Humanities, considered the federal government's most prestigious honor for intellectual achievement in the humanities. 

 BODY:
The farmer-writer Wendell Berry will deliver the 41st annual Jefferson Lecture in the Humanities, the National Endowment for the Humanities announced on Monday. The lecture, to be given on April 23 at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, is considered the federal government's most prestigious honor for intellectual achievement in the humanities.
Since his first novel, "Nathan Coulter," was published in 1960, Mr. Berry, who farms 125 acres near Port Royal, Ky., with his wife, Tanya Berry, has established himself as a principled and sometimes cantankerous presence in American letters, as known for his advocacy for traditional agriculture and the virtues of rural life and small-scale community as for his more than 40 books of fiction, poetry and essays. He has been an outspoken critic not just of industrialized farming but of industrialized writing,once declaring that writing on a computer instead of his old Royal typewriter would make his work dependent on strip-mined coal. "I do not see that computers are bringing us one step nearer to anything that does matter to me: peace, economic justice, ecological health, political honesty, family and community stability, good work," he wrote in a 1987 essay.
Mr. Berry, 77, has also been a particularly fierce critic of mountaintop-removal mining. In 2009 withdrew his donation of his personal papers from the University of Kentucky after the university decided to name a basketball players' dormitory the Wildcat Coal Lodge, in honor of a coal company that had helped raise money for the building.
Tickets to the Jefferson lecture are free and can be requested online.
An earlier version of this post misidentified the agency that chose Wendell Berry to give the 2012 Jefferson Lecture in the Humanities. It was the National Endowment for the Humanities, not the National Endowment for the Arts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (96%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); COAL MINING (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); POETRY (73%); SURFACE MINING (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); FAMILY (69%); BASKETBALL (64%) Berry, Wendell; Agriculture and Farming; Books and Literature; Mines and Mining; Writing and Writers; Kennedy, John F, Center for the Performing Arts; National Endowment for the Arts; University of Kentucky; Kentucky; Washington (DC); ArtsBeat; Books

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES (84%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (82%) Kennedy, John F, Center for the Performing Arts; National Endowment for the Arts; University of Kentucky

PERSON: Berry, Wendell

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Kentucky; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



244 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Bank Is Victim in Financial Crisis Case, Not Homeowners

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: The larger issue of the harm to homeowners from foreclosures triggered by the collapse in the housing market has not yet been addressed in any criminal prosecutions, according to White Collar Watch. 

 BODY:
Less than a week after the formation of a new federal-state working group that will focus on potential misconduct in the residential mortgage-backed securities market came a case against three traders at Credit Suisse who were charged with inflating the value of mortgage bonds in late 2007. But the case has little to do with the causes of the housing market collapse; at its core, it is really akin to embezzlement from a bank by its employees.
The Justice Department filed charges of conspiracy, false accounting and wire fraud against Kareem Serageldin, who was a managing director at Credit Suisse's investment bank division in New York. Two subordinates pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges and are cooperating with the prosecution, having admitted to inflating the value of mortgage bonds held by Credit Suisse at Mr. Serageldin's direction. 
According to the indictment, the motive for tinkering with the valuations was to enhance Mr. Seageldin's job performance and eligibility for a promotion and bonuses at Credit Suisse. At one point, he rejected a proposed markdown of $15 million to $20 million on an investment, telling a colleague, "That's a lot of money, dude," and when an internal inquiry raised questions about a particular valuation, he said that the entry had been recorded by mistake.
Mr. Serageldin received a cash bonus of approximately $1.7 million and a stock award worth about $5.3 million in February 2008, which was rescinded after Credit Suisse wrote off approximately $2.65 billion on its mortgage positions a little over a month later. The bank immediately reported the valuation issues to the government, and it took almost four years to bring the charges.
Various news reports noted that this was the first case involving Wall Street traders filed since the failed prosecution of two hedge fund managers at Bear Stearns who were charged with misleading their investors about the value of mortgage securities the fund held. They were acquitted in 2009 on all charges, a result that raised questions about whether prosecutors could successfully pursue fraud cases related to the financial crisis. 
Much like in that case, the charges against Mr. Serageldin are rooted in the collapse of the housing market, but have little to do with the fundamental causes of the financial crisis or the wave of foreclosures that hit homeowners. Credit Suisse was not named as a defendant, and has been portrayed as the victim.
Corporations can be prosecuted criminally for the conduct of their employees when individuals act within the scope of their responsibilities and the conduct was intended in part to benefit the company. This is called the "respondeat superior" theory of liability, and so corporations can be charged for the violations committed by anyone, from a janitor to the chief executive, even if no individual is prosecuted or convicted.
When employees act for their personal benefit, however, the company would not be held responsible for the violations. In Standard Oil Co. v. United States, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit explained that "the taking in or paying out of money by a bank teller, while certainly one of his regular functions, would hardly cast the corporation for criminal liability if in such 'handling' the faithless employee was pocketing the funds as an embezzler or handing them over to a confederate under some ruse."
Mr. Serageldin is accused of overvaluing securities so that he could reap the benefits of meeting his profit targets, a fraud committed on Credit Suisse to obtain a bonus he would not otherwise be entitled to receive. As the victim of his scheme, the bank could not be charged with a crime.
Whether Credit Suisse was actually misled regarding the valuation of its mortgage positions will be a crucial issue in Mr. Serageldin's case. In December 2007, UBS announced a $10 billion markdownof its portfolio as a result of "continued deterioration in the US sub-prime mortgage securities market, partly driven by increased homeowner delinquencies but mainly fuelled by worsening market expectations of future developments," so problems with valuations of the bank's mortgage positions may have been apparent to its management.
The timing of when Wall Street firms recognized losses in their mortgage portfolios is an important issue in assessing the causes of the financial crisis. This case puts at least some of the blame on a small group of rogue employees who were trying to protect their bonuses and future prospects, making the bank a victim along with the markets. 
The larger issue of the harm to homeowners from foreclosures triggered by the collapse in the housing market has not yet been addressed in any criminal prosecutions. One of the goals of the new working group is "to compensate victims and help provide relief for homeowners struggling from the collapse of the housing market," but the prosecution of Mr. Serageldin does not touch on those parties because the only one harmed was Credit Suisse.
A New York Times article highlightshow Fannie Mae received information about improprieties in the foreclosure process a few years before the financial crisis hit, yet the company's management appears to have ignored the issue. The likelihood of a criminal prosecution of any senior managers over foreclosure problems is quite low, however, because inaction is rarely the basis for charges. The civil case against Fannie Mae's former chief executive, Daniel H. Mudd, involves allegedly misleading disclosures to the company's investors, not the homeowners whose mortgages the firm bought and later foreclosed.
The prosecution of Mr. Serageldin demonstrates how easy it was to manipulate the valuations of mortgage securities that depended largely on estimates as the market for mortgage bonds dried up by late 2007. But the case says little about how the packaging of mortgages contributed to the losses suffered by homeowners or how the role of Wall Street firms in selling securities tied to the housing market impacted investors.
U.S. v. Kareem Serageldin

        
Winners and Losers One Year Later
        
Did It Help to Curb Short Sales?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MISCONDUCT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); ACQUITTAL (61%) Credit Suisse; Daniel H. Mudd; Fannie Mae; Kareem Serageldin; UBS; Frauds and Swindling; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Credit Suisse Group A.G; Serageldin, Kareem; Credit Suisse Group A.G|CS|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse Group A.G

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%) Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



245 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Banks Reluctant to Lend to Companies in Need of Cash

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: As profits and sales slip, some European companies are scrambling to pay their bills, at a time when banks grow increasingly hesitant to lend. 

 BODY:
7:57 p.m. | Updated 
LONDON - European governments are not the only ones struggling with debt. So are some of the region's companies.
As profits and sales slip, some European businesses are scrambling to pay their bills. Because banks are reluctant to lend, the fear is that companies will not be able to borrow the cash they need and will be forced to take drastic action, further weighing on the economy.
"There's a lack of business confidence across Europe" said Jonathan Loynes, chief European economist in London at the research organization Capital Economics. "Lending to the private sector is deteriorating, and there's enormous stress on the European economy."
The pressure is mounting. Insolvency - when a company's debts exceed its assets and cash flow - is expected to rise 12 percent this year in the euro zone. Countries including Greece, Spain and Italy are expected to record the highest annual increases. In the United States, the number of insolvencies is falling.
In January, Petroplus Holdings of Switzerland, the largest independent oil refiner in Europe, said it was filing for insolvency after lenders demanded repayment on $1.75 billion of outstanding debt. The company, facing dwindling margins as a result of high oil prices and weak economic conditions, tried to negotiate with creditors. But BNP Paribas of France, Credit Suisse of Switzerland and other lenders already dealing with the fallout from the European sovereign debt crisis decided that Petroplus was not worth the risk.
"We were ultimately not able to come to an agreement with our lenders to resolve these issues given the very tight and difficult European credit and refining markets," the company's chief executive, Jean-Paul Vettier, said on Jan. 24.
Now other companies, including energy multinationals and private equity firms, are sifting through the pieces. Nearly 40 bidders are assessing the British operations of Petroplus, said PricewaterhouseCoopers, which is overseeing the sale of the assets in Britain.
It is a bad omen. Roughly two-thirds of European companies that become insolvent will eventually file for bankruptcy, said Ludovic Subran, chief economist of Euler Hermes, a credit insurance company in Paris.
"The business environment has become worse," Mr. Subran said. "Many companies are losing their competitiveness and being hit by a reduction in consumer spending."
This year is shaping up badly for the Continent. The International Monetary Fund said on Jan. 24 that the euro zone's gross domestic product would fall an estimated 0.5 percent in 2012. The downturn is expected to be most severe in Southern Europe, where Italy's economy is forecast to contract by 2.2 percent and Spain's by 1.7 percent.
The economic headwinds are wreaking havoc on corporate profits. As Europe grapples with recession, unemployment is rising, consumer confidence is plunging and manufacturing orders are falling.
Consumer-focused companies have been hit especially hard. In January, the giant British retailer Tesco issued its first profit warning in more than 20 years, and said earnings for 2012 would be $709 million lower than analysts' expectations. Carrefour of France, the global grocery chain that recently replaced its chief executive, has estimated that operating income for last year would fall by 15 to 20 percent, with sales taking a hit in France and Southern Europe.
"Banks are being more conservative about who they lend to, and Europe's economic problems are weighing on companies' future prospects," said Brian Lochead, a business recovery services partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in London. "One problem is driving the other."
Without the financial lifeline banks can offer, debt-laden businesses are selling assets and cutting investment to conserve cash.
To restructure its finances, Punch Taverns, a British pub chain that borrowed $7.4 billion to expand rapidly in the last decade, decided to split itself in two last year. A smaller group, the Spirit Pub Company, was created with Punch's most profitable locations. Punch, which was left holding 75 percent of its $4.8 billion in outstanding debt, is now trying to sell more pubs to reduce its burden. Roger Whiteside, the chief executive of Punch, said the plan would help return the company to growth in the next five years.
Some companies are running out of options.
In December, Seat Pagine Gialle, the Italian yellow-pages publisher, said it would not pay $72 million to creditors as the company looked to restructure its balance sheet. It was the second time Seat Pagine Gialle had defaulted on its debt in less than a year, although creditors have yet to push the company into insolvency. Others may follow. European companies with credit ratings below investment grade have a combined $72 billion of debt due this year, according to Standard & Poor's. Defaults among this group are expected to rise by as much as 8.4 percent in 2012, S.& P. estimates.
The sovereign debt crisis is only making the problems worse. A recent survey released by the European Central Bank showed that institutions reduced the credit available to companies in the third quarter of 2011, the latest figures available. More worrying for Europe's corporate sector, banks also said they would pull back even further in the last three months of 2011.
"If companies aren't viable and don't have access to refinancing, banks don't want to throw good money after bad," said Angel Martin Torres, head of restructuring for Spain at the accountancy firm KPMG.
Regulators' efforts to spur lending have yet to pay off. In December, the European Central Bank moved to provide the financial sector with 489 billion euros ($639 billion) of low-interest loans. Authorities had hoped the money would ease the credit pressure on European banks so they would start lending again to the wider economy.
But instead of offering the money to credit-starved companies, institutions have preferred to deposit the cash with the central bank for safekeeping. On Jan. 18, officials said European banks had parked about $700 billion in overnight deposits with the central bank, the highest level since the euro was established in 1999.
The distress could open the doors for potential takeovers. Cash-rich multinationals, including Siemens of Germany and Philips of the Netherlands, have been hunting for attractive assets at troubled companies. Private equity firms that specialize in buying distressed assets also are on the lookout.
In January, Sun European Partners, the private equity firm, bought Bonmarche, a division of the insolvent British fashion chain Peacocks that caters to older women. Sun European already owns other retailers in the sector.
"Many companies have good assets but bad capital structures," said Mark Sterling, managing partner of the law firm Allen & Overy's restructuring and insolvency practice in London. "So if they are good underlying businesses and have no sources of refinancing, that creates opportunities."

        
Hedge Funds Scramble to Unload Greek Debt
        
In Greek Crisis, a Window on German Psyche

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); DRINKING PLACES (74%); CREDIT INSURANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); COMMERCIAL CREDIT INSURANCE (69%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (62%) Allen & Overy; BNP Paribas; Bonmarche; Carrefour; Credit Suisse; European Central Bank; International Monetary Fund; Peacocks; Petroplus; Philips; PricewaterhouseCoopers; Punch Taverns; Siemens; sovereign debt crisis; Spirit Pub Company; Sun European Partners; Tesco; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Credit Suisse Group A.G; European Monetary Union; Hermes International SA; Standard & Poor's Corp; Tesco Corp; Credit Suisse Group A.G|CS|NYSE; Tesco Corp|TESO|NASDAQ; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: PETROPLUS HOLDINGS AG (83%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%); EULER HERMES SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) Carrefour; Credit Suisse Group A.G; European Central Bank; European Monetary Union; Hermes International SA; Standard & Poor's Corp; Tesco Corp

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); EUE (FRA) (53%); ELE (PAR) (53%) Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE; Tesco Corp; TESO; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC5171 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); SPAIN (92%); ITALY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



246 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: America's European Exposure

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Not as big as you think. 

 BODY:
It's now conventional wisdom that the fate of the U.S. economy over the next three quarters -- and hence, also, Obama's reelection chances -- depend on events in Europe. So maybe this is a good time to express some skepticism.
The map above -- taken from here -- tells us that overall, exports to Europe are just 2 percent of GDP. Some states, notably South Carolina, are more exposed (presumably because of those European-owned auto plants). But Obama isn't going to win South Carolina in any case. And more broadly, even a sharp fall in exports to Europe would be only a small direct hit to demand.
OK, caveats: this only measures goods exports, and we should mark the numbers up maybe 25 percent to take account of services. Also, exports aren't the only channel: if European events cause a Lehman-type event, disrupting financial markets world-wide, all bets are off.
And I should say that there is a long-standing puzzle concerning world business cycles: economies move in synch more than can easily be explained via concrete linkages in the form of exports.
With all that, however, it's still very questionable whether Europe's looming recession will actually have that much negative impact here. Decoupling didn't hold in 2008-2009, but that was an epochal disaster. This time might be different.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



247 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Jobs!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Do you plan to attend a trade show this year? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: Washington Takes Notice, China Gives Money
President Obama holds a special cabinet meeting on small business and urges Congress to give new tax breaks and other incentives. Small-business owners react. Another proposed bill would give small businesses $11 billion more in contracts. Not to be outdone, China announces a $2.5 billion fund for its entrepreneurs. Martin Neil Baily of the Brookings Institution reports on the state of American small businesses. A Gallup economist says small businesses are at a "crucial juncture." Startup America celebrates its first anniversary. A National Small Business Association report shows the climate for small businesses is improving.
The Data: Jobs!
Employers added 243,000 jobs in January.Consumer confidence declines unexpectedly, but auto sales are off to a strong start. The ISM Manufacturing Index increases slightly as does construction spending (pdf). But the housing market's woes are hitting some small businesses hard. Americans cut back on spending in December and used an increase in wages to pad their savings. Some investors do not trust earnings reports, and Karl Denninger does not trust gross domestic product numbers. The president of the Philadelphia Fed says the Fed is "too downbeat" - and here's a pretty good reason to be bullish on the global economy. Mark Perry reports that offbeat economic indicators are showing strong results and explains how the Great Recession stimulated gains in productivity and efficiency. The Congressional Budget Office projects a $1.1 trillion federal budget deficit for the 2012 fiscal year if current laws remain unchanged (and Ezra Klein does the math on who's to blame for the deficits)

Finance: Mobile, Mobile, Mobile
Marc Andreessen's venture capital firm has raised $2.7 billion in three years, and many of the largest venture firms are also doing well (Ryan Seacrest is, too). A business intelligence start-up pulls in another $20 million. Reihan Salam defends private equity. An actor's mobile-coupon start-up nabs $1.5 million while another mobile-payment company raises $10 million. The presidential candidates embrace a mobile-payment start-up. A violinist responds to a mobile ringtone. Karen Klein reports that "ultrawealthy individuals plan to increase their investments in small businesses." MasterCard is planning to usher in the digital age of consumer spending. T-Mobile commits to helping small businesses get paid fast.With growth in small-business loan demand hitting a seven-year high, Bank of America is hiring small-business bankers. Two banks create a $30 million small-business lending fund. Almost forgot: Facebook filed a $5 billion initial public offering.
Marketing: Pinterest Takes Over
Pinterest becomes the top traffic driver for retailers and a study finds the site is nearly on par with Twitter when it comes to driving referrals. TechCrunch says Pinterest was the best new start-up of 2011, and here are four types of businesses that should be using it. Mick Mountz weaves a fascinating tale about online ordering. The Inc. 500 is bored with blogging(I never get bored watching this impressive young lady). Gary Shouldis suggest five ways small businesses can use QR codes, including placing "a QR code in your storefront window" -- and drill down deeper on QR codes with this interview. A new TV show is based on Groupon but Doug Stephens wonders if the daily deal sites are done. To know your customers better, consider using surveillance video or learning the psychology of color. Philip Geist explains how maintaining flexibility can help sales. Greg Satell looks into the future of retail, which "is becoming much more daring." Ferris Buellerreturns. Jerry Seinfeld renews his partnership with the Soup Nazi. Cesar Millan tames a wild and unruly plate of food.
Your People: Working From Home?
Intuit says small businesses added 50,000 jobs. But unemployment duration is not easing, and the Pew Charitable Trusts examine the effects of long-term unemployment. Twitter's no-cost viral recruiting video is a hit. Robert Moore explains how he hired the best candidate with less than eight hours of work. (But just make sure to give people time off for sick days, O.K.?) Kelly Clay explains how to find a successful freelancer. The debate continues: are businesses more or less efficient and employees more productive when people work remotely? In this video, PBS's Ray Suarez asks, how many jobs can American manufacturing maintain? Federal workers sometimes do (and sometimes don't) make more than the private sector, but the House votes to freeze their pay anyway. Do you know seven ways your employees can enhance your online presence? American Airlines cuts 13,000 jobs. I think this dog makes a great office assistant.
Around the Country: Pythons Take Florida
A bakery in Portland, Ore., goes from virtual to bricks and mortar. Pythons have a stranglehold in Florida. Seyi Fayanju reports on the big footprint of small businesses in the Gulf Coast restoration. As factory activity increased in Texas in January, a new start-up initiativegot off the ground. Tony Hsieh is spending $350 million to make Las Vegas a start-up hub. A rise in manufacturing is good for Wisconsin businesses, and Christian Schneider reports that the Wisconsin governor's controversial labor laws are "already saving taxpayers millions." Wait. Are those humans flying over New York?
Around the World: What's Wrong With Britain?
A T-shirt brand supports entrepreneurs in developing countries. Scott Sumner asks what's wrong with Britain? (Hey Scott: here's what's wrong with Britain!) Meet the top 10 start-ups in Latin America. Joseph Ward shows how inflation targeting has worked in Sweden. Can you guess where the United States stands on the list of the world's business-friendly countries? Mark Evans begins a weekly recap of Canada's start-up news. Here's how one small business survived the Egyptian revolution. Both China and Japan report strong manufacturing activity, and here's how the rest of the world stacks up. Sir Richard Branson joins the Global Entrepreneurship Congress in Liverpool.
Ideas: Pursuing Her Passion
Here are 10 iconic films every entrepreneur should see. Ernst & Young's entrepreneur of the year program puts out a call for nominations. It's tough times for electric-vehicle battery makers. A 47-year-old walks away from her corporate job to pursue her passion. Don Dedo has advice for any entrepreneur. A father gives advice to his son. The Kauffman Foundation's Super Bowl ad highlights entrepreneurship.
Boss of the Week
Anselm Doering, the president of seven-year-old EcoLogic Solutions in Brooklyn, makes cleaning solutions that are safe enough to drink (can that be said of the coffee at these Manhattan Starbucks?).
Red Tape: Tax Strategies
Jill Schlesinger warns of 12 Internal Revenue Service red flags, including, "a home office deduction": "Are you sitting in your kitchen, checking your work e-mail? Well, that's not a home office, according to the I.R.S." Barbara Weltman suggests three tax strategies for improving cash flow. Michael Laprarie says it's not just lower taxesthat affect the economy: "The effects of psychology on economics cannot be underestimated; real, sustainable growth occurs when people are excited about the benefits to be gained when they spend or invest their money."
Technology: Tools, Apps and the Cloud
As the valuation gains of software-as-a-service companies start to slow, James Colgan explains why installed software isn't going away. Google Plus continues to grow. Ann Augustine shares five Wiki tools for building online communities. Art Wittmann says developing custom apps for tablets and smartphones is the cool thing to do. Here are 10 productivity apps, courtesy of CRN. Xerox jumps into the cloud infrastructure fray. Here are four mature cloud services. Microsoft eyes start-ups and joins with RIM on cloud services. Yaara Lancet recommends this site to find the perfect laptop or tablet. Here are five ways to make online invoicing easier.
The Week's Bests
Reason to Get Up Early. Annie Murphy Paul explains why morning routines are creativity killers: "Everything about the way we start our day runs counter to the best conditions for thinking creatively. So what would our mornings look like if we re-engineered them in the interest of maximizing our creative problem-solving capacities? We'd set the alarm a few minutes early and lie awake in bed, following our thoughts where they lead (with a pen and paper nearby to jot down any evanescent inspirations). We'd stand a little longer under the warm water of the shower, dismissing task-oriented thoughts ("What will I say at that 9 a.m. meeting?") in favor of a few more minutes of mental dilation. We'd take some deep breaths during our commute, instead of succumbing to road rage. And once in the office - after we get that cup of coffee - we'd direct our computer browser not to the news of the day but to the funniest videos the Web has to offer."
Best Argument for Immigration Reform. Tom Donohue says immigrant entrepreneurs remain vital to the economy: "We've got to cut the red tape that holds back aspiring immigrant entrepreneurs. We need visa reform to welcome job creators of every size and sector. And we must make it easier for high-skilled immigrants and foreign graduates of U.S. institutions to invest their talents in our knowledge economy. If we don't, we'll send innovation to our competitors at the expense of our own economic growth and job creation."
Reason to Consider Trade Shows. Mike Thimmesch explains how we can see our trade shows with fresh eyes: "Try it yourself: walk your trade show and see who does a good job engaging you, and who ignores you -- even when you walk into their booth! Who pays attention to all attendees as they walk by, and who is on the phone, even when you reach for a business card on their table? Who is friendly even at the end of the show, and who looks like they need a trip to the spa? Who offers a friendly engaging question and turns it into a meaningful conversation, and who says "Hi," and then shuts up? By the end of this walk you will have a burning desire to put far greater emphasis on the choosing and training of your booth staff."
This Week's Question: Do you plan to attend a trade show this year?
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: A Twitter Lesson
        
This Week in Small Business: Gross National Happiness
        
This Week in Small Business: Destroying the Internet
        
This Week in Small Business: For the Win!
        
This Week in Small Business: The Latino Opportunity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (86%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); RECESSION (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); TRENDS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); RETAILERS (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (57%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (53%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) economy; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Entrepreneurship; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (55%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (51%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); RYAN SEACREST (50%); MARC ANDREESSEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



248 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: What We Learned from Nevada

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Now that Nevada has finally finished counting ballots, there are three interesting data-driven takeaways from the state. 

 BODY:
Nevada Republicans have finally finished counting caucus ballots, and Mitt Romney was declared the winner there with just slightly more than 50 percent of the vote. Newt Gingrich finished second with 21 percent, followed closely by Ron Paul at 19 percent. Rick Santorum was fourth with 10 percent of the vote.
There are three interesting data-driven takeaways from the state.
Maybe polling caucuses isn't hopeless. As it turned out, the Nevada results weren't that far from our forecasts, which I had been nervous about because they were based on only two polls and because Nevada polling has been erratic in the past. Mr. Gingrich did a few points worse than his forecast and Mr. Paul a few points better, but both were within the confidence interval established by the model. And Mr. Romney's 50 percent of the vote was very close to the forecast of 51 percent.
The Republican race may be more stable than it appears. Sean Trende, at Real Clear Politics, makes a much more detailed version of this argument, but Mr. Romney's 29-point victory in Nevada isn't that hard to reconcile with his narrower win in Florida or other early-voting states.
Much of Mr. Romney's margin of victory in Nevada was because of the presence of Mormon voters. According to the entrance poll of the state, 26 percent of caucus voters were Mormon, and 90 percent of those voted for Mr. Romney.
The entrance poll did not provide a specific breakout for non-Mormon voters, but we can derive one by taking its numbers on the Mormon vote and then estimating the non-Mormon vote such that the two groups together match the actual result in Nevada.
That estimate suggests that Mr. Romney won about 36 percent of the non-Mormon vote, putting him 8 points ahead of Mr. Gingrich, who won 28 percent.
This estimate isn't perfect. There is sampling error in the entrance poll results. In addition, it was calibrated based on the assumption that Mr. Romney had won about 54 percent of the vote rather than his actual total of 50 percent.
Still, Mr. Romney's 8-percent margin among non-Mormon voters is interesting because it roughly matches Mr. Romney's advantage - around 9 points - in the total popular vote through the first four early-voting states, none of which have substantial Mormon populations.
This represents a mix of good news and bad news for Mr. Romney. On the one hand, if Mr. Romney has something like a 9-point advantage nationally over Mr. Gingrich, that margin should be more than enough for him to win the Republican nomination. With that kind of edge, Mr. Romney would lose some states where the demographics are less favorable to him than in Nevada, but he would win enough others that he should have the nomination wrapped up well in advance of the convention. (As I wrote yesterday, I tend to view the biggest threat to Mr. Romney as being a new dynamic in which Mr. Santorum rather than Mr. Gingrich becomes his main challenger.)
On the other hand, we do not have much evidence yet that Mr. Romney's organizational strengths will translate into an automatic advantage for him in the caucus states. If the results in Nevada and the other states can be explained reasonably well by demographic modeling, that implies that whether the state holds a primary or caucus may not be all that pertinent. Many of the states that hold caucuses happen to have good demographics for Mr. Romney anyway, but we shouldn't confuse the cause and effect. We will have considerably more data to study on this question, of course, after Colorado and Minnesota hold caucuses on Tuesday.
The better Mr. Romney does, the lower the turnout. This dynamic, which we highlighted after Florida, was in full effect in Nevada. Turnout there declined to 32,963 voters this year from 44,324 voters in 2008 - a 26 percent drop. And the decline was slightly larger, 29 percent, among voters who identified as Republican in the entrance poll.
So far, there has been a clear inverse relationship between how well Mr. Romney performed in a state and the strength of the turnout.
It does not appear likely that this is just a fluke; Michael P. McDonald, of George Mason University, has found that the relationship also exists if you look at turnout on a county-by-county level.
But is it likely to matter in November? Mr. Trende writes that the importance of the phenomenon might be overblown. He notes, for instance, that there is not a clear relationship between turnout in past primaries and turnout in the general elections in those years.
My view is different, although in a subtle way. Turnout data is tricky to work with. Ideally, you'd want to adjust for things like how competitive the nomination race was and for how long, how many states held caucuses instead of primaries, the peculiarities of the nomination calendar and the dynamics of two parties holding primaries or caucuses in the same year, perhaps along with other factors. There are also a lot of things you'd need to unwind in order to measure how strong turnout was in November.
And, as is the case with other types of election studies, the analysis is confined by a small sample size - only 10 presidential years from when the current nomination process was adopted in 1972 to 2008. This presents a significant challenge even when you are dealing with relatively well-defined variables, like a president's approval rating. But it is even more of a problem when you're studying something that is tricky to measure, like turnout.
When the empirical evidence is this ambiguous, it obviously does not validate the hypothesis you are trying to study - but it also does not necessarily refute it. There might be a modest effect there that is hidden by all the noise in the data, or there might not be.
It should be remembered, however, that Republicans have the turnout advantage in November because their voters tend to come from demographic groups (like older Americans and wealthier Americans) who vote more frequently. This usually manifests itself in the fact that polls of likely voters show somewhat more favorable results for Republicans than polls of registered voters.
The safest default assumption is probably that this gap will exist again, but that it will amount to a more typical value like 2 or 3 percentage points than the 6-point "enthusiasm gap" that existed in 2010.
Or it could be that the middling enthusiasm for Mr. Romney will only make much difference if he appears to be in trouble by November. Democratic turnout was quite poor, for instance, in 1984 for Walter Mondale, a candidate who has some parallels to Mr. Romney. However, it was clear that Ronald Reagan was going to win that election anyway; low Democratic turnout contributed to Reagan's margin of victory, but strong turnout would not have reversed the result.
On the other hand, Democrats had somewhat limited enthusiasm for John Kerry in 2004 - but that election was much closer, and they did not have any major problems in getting their voters to the polls.
In other words, perhaps if Mr. Obama appears poised for a 6- or 7-point victory by November based on the economic fundamentals, Republican voters may feel that their vote makes little difference anyway and some of them will stay home as a protest, expanding Mr. Obama's victory margin to 8 or 9 points instead and making it look prettier in the Electoral College. But I'm more skeptical that this will matter much in an environment in which the election will be very close and every vote could make a difference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%) Politics

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RON PAUL (73%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



249 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Saluting Teamwork

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Military leaders want their troops to be committed to one another and their mission rather than going after individual rewards -- and maybe there's a lesson in that for the rest of us, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
In his recent State of the Union address, President Obama praised the teamwork of the United States armed forces: "They don't obsess over their differences. They focus on the mission at hand. They work together."
You might assume that the military promotes teamwork by strictly authoritarian means - the chain of command. Not so. It implements specific measures to reduce racial and ethnic conflict. It builds solidarity by taking care of its own, relying on a far more egalitarian structure of pay and benefits than the civilian economy.
The United States Army developed a comprehensive plan to address problematic race relations in the 1970s, recognizing that they were hampering military effectiveness. As Charles C. Moskos and John S. Butler explain in "All That We Can Be: Black Leadership and Racial Integration the Army Way," strong efforts to reduce discrimination were combined with an emphasis on increasing social contact and collaboration and new opportunities to move up through the ranks.
In the early 1980s, recruitment efforts shifted away from enlistment bonuses to educational benefits offered through the G.I. Bill of Rights.
Racial problems did not vanish in the following decade, but black men and women recruits began to report favorable experiences compared with their civilian lives and proved more likely than whites to re-enlist.

The risks of death or injury in combat increased for all soldiers during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, but the health risks of civilian life - including death from homicide - remain much higher for blacks than for whites.
Studies of differential mortality in Iraq suggest that socioeconomic differences play a more significant role than race: soldiers from communities with low levels of education and those from rural areas suffer higher risks.
The cruel reality is that young men and women are more likely to enter the armed forces if they perceive few decent opportunities in civilian life.
My University of Massachusetts Amherst colleague, the sociologist Jennifer Hickes Lundquist, makes the case that assertively meritocratic policies help explain why black and Latino men, and white women, perceive greater benefits to military service than white men.
Promotions reward performance, and pay inequality is limited. Professor Lundquist estimates that the average officer earns about 2.5 times as much as the average enlisted man, and the rare four-star general with a lifetime of experience earns about 14 times as much as a beginning enlistee with no experience (as this schedule of military pay as of January 2012 shows).
By comparison, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. calculates that top chief executives in the private sector earned more than 343 times what the median worker earned in 2010.
Maybe four-star generals have learned that less inequality is better if you want someone to watch your back. They want soldiers to build commitments to one another and their mission rather than to seek purely individual rewards. They also have good reason to promote the physical and mental health of their recruits.
As Nicholas Kristof pointed out last year in The New York Times in "Our Lefty Military," the package of health benefits, education subsidies, child-care services and pension contributions available to members of the armed services far exceeds that offered to most workers in the private sector.
These policies contribute to the well-being of the next generation: One of Professor Lundquist's most striking findings is that participation in the military promotes family formation and stability. Over all, blacks are far less likely than whites to marry; in the military, however, racial differences in marriage disappear, as do differences in probability of divorce.
In the civilian world, women's employment is associated with a reduction in the number of children they bear over their lifetime. Among military women, however, this effect is smaller, partly because they tend to marry at a relatively early age.
Professor Lundquist emphasizes that the military is a surprisingly "family friendly" institution. While soldiers are subjected to many exceptional types of stress and risk, they enjoy more economic security and a stronger social safety net than civilians do.
Maybe they are better team players because they are treated as members of a team.

        
Homemaker Dad, Breadwinner Mom
        
Just Try Harder
        
Feminism's Uneven Success
        
Occupy Economics
        
Storming the Capitalist Castle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (92%); ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); MEN (89%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); EQUAL PAY (75%); ETHNICITY (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (69%); HOMICIDE (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Daily Economist; Discrimination; divorce; Income Inequality; inequality; integration; military; military recruitment; Nancy Folbre; racial discrimination; racial equality; Defense and Military Forces; United States Army; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (90%) United States Army

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



250 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Congratulations, Lloyd Blankfein

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: The C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs will be the Human Rights Campaign's first national corporate spokesman for same-sex marriage. 

 BODY:
Lloyd Blankfein, the C.E.O. of Goldman Sachs, isn't popular, and he knows it. In 2009, after his freshly bailed out firm announced plans to award over $16 billion in bonuses, he said, "I could slit my wrists and people would cheer," which was obviously an exaggeration.
Given how much trouble he's had with economic liberals, it took courage for Mr. Blankfein to take on a new group, social conservatives, by signing up with the Human Rights Campaign as its first national corporate spokesman for same-sex marriage.
In a half-minute Web spot, Mr. Blankfein states that he supports marriage equality, and explains that "America's corporations learned long ago that equality is just good business and is the right thing to do."

I agree with Mr. Blankfein, and I'm glad that someone generally associated with conservatism is eschewing the right-left split on this social issue. Last year Mr. Blankfein added his name to an open letter calling on New York state legislators to legalize same-sex marriage, but his partnership with the Human Rights Campaign is clearly more public.
The left-right split, besides, doesn't even make sense. A prominent British Tory, Tim Montgomerie, has also come out in support of gay marriage, explaining that "marriage is probably the most Conservative institution . Marriage is civilising, stabilising, a hugely important institution for bringing people together. But if marriage is fossilised and exclusive, that has only limited reach."
Exactly.

        
Chris Christie, Revisionist Historian
        
Marriage Equality: Demagoguery in New Jersey
        
Good News on Gay Rights
        
When in Doubt, Blame the Founders
        
Beware of Female Drivers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); COHABITATION (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); LGBT RIGHTS (75%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (70%) Executive compensation; Goldman Sachs; Lloyd Blankfein; Same-Sex Marriage; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Human Rights Campaign

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (94%) Human Rights Campaign

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (95%) Blankfein, Lloyd C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



251 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Automakers Are Rebounding. Karl Rove Is Offended.

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Rove said the Clint Eastwood Super Bowl ad was dictated by "the President of the United States and his political minions," who bailed out Detroit with taxpayer dollars. 

 BODY:
The delicate Karl Rove said today he was "frankly, offended" during the Super Bowl halftime on Sunday. No, he didn't mean his sensibilities were jolted by M.I.A.'s upraised middle finger; he was referring to the Chrysler ad that Clint Eastwood narrated, which many people who don't share Mr. Rove's political worldview thought was rather uplifting.
Over stirring French horns and stark photos of Detroit workers, the ad used the auto industry's rebirth from bankruptcy as a symbol of American renewal and determination. But it contained some shocking language for those, like Mr. Rove, who are easily bruised:
"We all pulled together and now Motor City is fighting again."
"We all rallied around what was right and acted as one. Because that's what we do."

"Detroit is showing us it can be done and what's true about them is true about all of us. This country can't be knocked out with one punch. We get right back up again and when we do the world's going to hear the roar of our engines. Yeah."
These were fighting words to Mr. Rove, who suggested they were dictated by "the President of the United States and his political minions," who bailed out Detroit with taxpayer dollars. It's just another example of "Chicago-style politics," he said, whatever that means.
The White House said it had nothing to do with the ad, but it had a great deal to do with Detroit's resurgence, and that's what really offensive to Mr. Rove and other Republicans. They'd prefer to drown out the good news coming from the carmakers, such as these recent headlines:

        
Chrysler, rescued from bankruptcy by the federal government, reported $183 million in profits for last year, the first full year of earnings in the black since 2005. Worldwide sales of its cars grew by 22 percent.
        
General Motors is likely to announce 2011 income of $8 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported, the highest in its history. It is on track to make $10 billion this year, a stunning turnaround from the bankruptcy restructuring led by the Obama administration in 2009.
        
In Michigan, which for years has been one of the states hit hardest by the recession, the unemployment rate has fallen to 9.3 percent, the lowest level in more than three years.
These are inconvenient facts for both Mr. Rove and for Mitt Romney, who is on the record as opposing the automaker bailouts. The outcry being raised against the commercial is not really from people who are offended, but from those who are embarrassed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); CONTUSIONS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); SALES FIGURES (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (56%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) Auto bailout; Detroit; Karl Rove; Eastwood, Clint; Rove, Karl; Super Bowl; General Motors; Detroit (Mich); General Motors|GM|NYSE

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (95%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Eastwood, Clint; Rove, Karl

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



252 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Asia Bad. Take Many Jobs. Not Fair.

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: Critics reacted angrily to an American political that depicted an Asian woman speaking halting English in what appeared to be a rice paddy. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - The adjectives of outrage - creepy, deplorable, racist - are being hurled with more than a little force in Asia after an American political ad was shown featuring an Asian woman speaking deliberately broken English.
The online site The Shanghaiist found the campaign spot to be both "creepy" and "racist." The ad was broadcast during the Super Bowl on Sunday. 
Jozjozjoz, a Taiwanese-American writing on 8Asians.com, said the ad was part of a recent tradition of Super Bowl commercials that have been"racist, offensive, or at least racially insensitive toward Asians.'' 
Hanqing Chen, writing on the Asia Society blog, said the "racially charged Super Bowl ad highlighted the underbelly of U.S. politics.'' 
The 30-second spot was run by Peter Hoekstra, a Republican contender for the U.S. Senate in Michigan. It shows an Asian woman riding a bike through what appears to be a rice paddy. "Your economy get very weak,'' the woman says at one point in her cracked English. "Ours get very good.''
Mr. Hoekstra told The Detroit Free Press, "There's nothing racist in this ad,'' and he noted that there was no specific mention of China. 
"The Chinese benefit from the recklessness of U.S. spending,'' he said. "It doesn't criticize the Chinese at all.''
One of his campaign Web sites, however, is hardly nuanced about Mr. Hoekstra's accusations about China. The site even has "Debbie Spend It Now'' rendered in Chinese. 
The TV ad clearly suggests that American jobs are being lost to Asia, and Chinese trade practices have been part of the heated campaign rhetoric in Michigan, which has seen its auto sector and industrial base deeply eroded. Mr. Hoekstra has charged that his Democratic opponent, the incumbent Senator Debbie Stabenow, has been complicit in the jobs exodus. 
"Claiming that the other party is in cahoots with China, or recklessly or naively playing into its evil clutches is nothing new in U.S. political contests," said Susan Jakes, Arthur Ross Fellow at Asia Society's Center on U.S. China Relations, "but this ad takes that already deplorable campaign tactic to new lows."
Senator Stabenow has done some China-blamingof her own. From her Senate Web site:
"China has a clear pattern of flagrantly violating trade rules and it is long past time to stand up to them.''
And on Monday, in a conference call with reporters, she said, "We can't continue to sit back and let China's policies cost us jobs.''
The controversy over the ad in the United States was explored in depth by our colleagues over at The Caucus. 
Outrage in Asia was especially strong on social media sites like Twitter and Facebook, and it appeared on Tuesday that microblogging sites in China were starting to react to the video. (The spot reportedly aired only on Michigan TV stations during the football game.)
Pete Hoekstra insults most Americans who are not even #AsianAmericans#GOP Is Missing Neurons #AAPI#Politics
- T. Ngoc Tran(@prof_Tran) February 7, 2012
Cweezy, a commenter on the 8Asians blog, said the "message of the ad isn't 'anti-Asian,' but it does weirdly reinforce stereotypes/ignorance/xenophobia to make a point about the national debt. I got very uncomfortable watching it.''
The ambience of the ad, its geography, more evokes Vietnam or Cambodia. China, not so much.
James Fallows, a longtime foreign correspondent who has lived in Shanghai and Beijing, picked up on the look of the video. Mr. Fallows won a New York Emmy for the documentary series "On the Frontlines: Doing Business in China,'' and here's part of his commentary, on The Atlantic blog:
"So why this rural setting? I think it's because it offers a kind of visual dog-whistle, for those Americans who, either through experience or through Apocalypse Now-style imagery, associate smiling-but-deceptive Asians in a rice-paddy setting with previous American sorrow.''
The Asian inflections and inferences in the ad will undoubtedly resonate with many Michiganders, at least those who recall the terrible beating death of a Chinese-American man by two unemployed autoworkers in Detroit. 
The men beat Vincent Chin, a 27-year-old draftsman, over the head with a Louisville Slugger baseball bat. The attack followed an argument that had broken out at a strip club - Mr. Chin's friends were throwing him a bachelor party there - and one of the men shouted something at Mr. Chin about American auto jobs being lost, apparently mistaking him for a Japanese. 
Neither of Mr. Chin's assailants did any jail time. The 30th anniversary of his death is June 23.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ADVERTISING (92%); POLITICS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); WEB SITES (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Hoekstra, Peter; Stabenow, Debbie; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Discrimination; Labor and Jobs; Political Advertising; Politics and Government; Primaries and Caucuses; Social Networking (Internet); Super Bowl; Television; Unemployment; United States Economy; Asia Society; Republican Party; Senate; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Michigan; United States; Politics; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (57%) Asia Society; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: PETER HOEKSTRA (90%); DEBBIE STABENOW (89%) Hoekstra, Peter; Stabenow, Debbie

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) CHINA (98%); ASIA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Michigan; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



253 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Ad Draws Protests for Portrayal of Asians

BYLINE: STEVEN YACCINO and JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: An ad from a pitched Senate race draws complaints about racial insensitivity. 

 BODY:
5:38 p.m. | Updated A beautiful landscape comes into view. An Asian woman pedals her bicycle down a dirt road. Chinese instruments fill the soundtrack as she speaks in broken English. So began the ad, paid for by Peter Hoekstra, a Republican contender for the United States Senate in Michigan.
And so began the latest Super Bowl ad controversy over an ad that ran during the game that was broadcast on Michigan stations. 
While Mr. Hoekstra defended his commercial as revealing the "reckless spending" of Debbie Stabenow, the incumbent U.S. senator and a Democrat, critics denounced the spot as racially insensitive. 
"Debbie spend so much American money," the woman said. "You borrow more and more from us. Your economy get very weak. Ours get very good. We take your jobs."
The commercial ends with a clip of Mr. Hoekstra, a former U.S. congressman who ran for governor in 2010, dubbing himself "Pete Spend-It-Not," apparently for his fiscal restraint. It also encourages viewers to visit his new Web site "DebbieSpendItNow.com," which has statistics about federal spending beside images of Chinese flags, currency and stereotypical Chinatown font. 
Controversy is common in the Super Bowl commercial lineup. Last year, Groupon took a pounding after an ad that some said took a joke too far, making light of people struggling in Tibet. But it was unclear from Mr. Hoekstra's ad whether he was aiming for lightheartedness.
Among those outraged by the campaign strategy was Asian & Pacific Islander American Vote, a nonprofit organization in Michigan that released a statement condemning the commercial for encouraging "anti-Asian sentiment" and noted contributions Asian-Americans have made to Michigan's economy. 
Ms. Stabenow's office declined to comment, but issued a statement from Mark Brewer, the chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party, which described the ad as "shameful" and "deceitful" regarding Ms. Stabenow's record. The state party also released a web-only ad accusing Mr. Hoekstra of hypocrisy on spending issues. 
Mr. Hoekstra could not be reached for comment, but in interviews elsewhere, he did not appear to back down from the message nor the way he delivered it.
"There's nothing racist in this ad," he said in comments posted online by the Detroit Free Press. 
 The "Debbie Spenditnow" ad was shot not in rural China but in the rice fields of California, with an American actress whose parents are Chinese, said Bill Kenyon, political director of Strategic Perception Inc., the Hollywood-based media firm run by Republican media veteran Fred Davis that created the ad.
 Mr. Kenyon, who would not release the name of the actress, said he did not know whether she actually spoke heavily accented, pigeon English, but he said the script called for it.
 "We only have 30 seconds, so we wanted to throw out something visually that evoked the image of China," he said. "We were trying to portray this as China, not an American enclave of Chinese at some American university."
 The firm, famed for branding former Representative Tom Campbell a "Demon Sheep" during his Senate primary campaign against the former Hewlett-Packard chief executive Carly Fiorina, also cut an ad for then-Michigan gubernatorial candidate Rick Snyder calling him "one tough nerd." That nickname stuck. Mr. Snyder was elected governor in 2010. And Mr. Kenyon said they hoped to make a similarly memorable spot for Mr. Hoekstra.
 Senator Stabenow is likely to run on her record opposing trade deals with China and calling for crackdowns on the country's manufacturing practices. That gave them the idea of trying to kill two birds with one stone: hitting her on government spending, a perennial Republican line of attack, and linking over-spending to helping China at the expense of the U.S. economy.
 "This is one area she can't compete against Pete on," Mr. Kenyon said.
A press release on Mr. Hoekstra's Web site said he spent $150,000 on the ad buy, which will run for two weeks.
A previous version of this article misstated the name of the Chinese currency. It is renminbi.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRENDS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); WEB SITES (52%) Hoekstra, Peter; Stabenow, Debbie; Advertising and Marketing; Chinese-Americans; Discrimination; Economic Conditions and Trends; Online Advertising; Political Advertising; Super Bowl; Democratic Party; Detroit Free Press; Groupon Inc; Senate; Michigan; Tibet; United States; Groupon Inc|GRPN|NASDAQ; Ad Watch; The Caucus

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Detroit Free Press; Groupon Inc; Senate

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (55%) Groupon Inc; GRPN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: PETER HOEKSTRA (91%); DEBBIE STABENOW (90%) Hoekstra, Peter; Stabenow, Debbie

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (97%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); TIBET (93%) Michigan; Tibet; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



254 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Middle Class on Edge as World Presses In

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- One measure of the profound anxiety now coursing through Iranian society can be seen on Manouchehri Street, a winding lane at the heart of this city where furtive crowds of men gather every day like drug dealers to buy and sell American dollars.
The government has raised the official exchange rate and sent police into the streets to stop the black marketeers, but with confidence in Iran's own currency, the rial, collapsing by the day, the trade goes on.
''Am I afraid of the police? Sure, but I need the money,'' said Hamid, a heavyset construction engineer who was standing by a muddy patch of greenery amid a crowd of other illicit currency traders here. ''Food prices are going up, and my salary is not enough.'' Glancing nervously around him, he added that he had converted almost all of his assets into dollars. Like many Iranians, he had also stockpiled months' worth of rice and other staples. 
The fuel for this manic trade is not an actual economic collapse -- the new European oil embargo has yet to take effect, and there is plenty of food on the shelves -- but a rising sense of panic about Iran's encirclement, the possibility of war and the prospect of more economic pain to come. The White House announced a further tightening on Monday aimed at freezing Iranian assets and constricting the activities of Iran's Central Bank.
Already, the last round of sanctions on Iran's Central Bank has begun inflicting unprecedented damage on Iran's private sector, traders and analysts say, making it so hard to transfer money abroad that even affluent businessmen are sometimes forced to board planes carrying suitcases full of American dollars.
Yet this economic burden is falling largely on the middle class, raising the prospect of more resentment against the West and complicating the effort to deter Iran's nuclear program -- a central priority for the Obama administration in this election year.
''For the past few months, our business customers have been coming to us saying their clients are giving up on them, because they believe they will not be paid,'' said Parvaneh, a 41-year-old woman working at a Tehran bank. Like others interviewed for this article, she declined to give her full name, fearing repercussions for herself and her family. ''They are starting to lay off employees. Iran's economy has always been sick, but now it seems worse than ever.''
The rising economic panic has illustrated -- and possibly intensified -- the bitter divisions within Iran's political elite. A number of insiders, including members of the elite Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, have begun openly criticizing Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in recent weeks. One of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's aides indirectly accused Ayatollah Khamenei of needlessly antagonizing the West in ways that pushed down the rial's value, the latest sign of a rift between the president and the supreme leader that is helping to define the parliamentary elections, which are scheduled for March 2.
''They criticize Ahmadinejad and even the supreme leader by name now; it's not like before,'' said Javad, the 45-year-old manager of a travel agency in north Tehran.
With Iran now importing as much rice and other food staples as it grows at home, trade obstacles could become far more significant in the coming months. Most Iranian traders discount the possibility of real food shortages, saying Iran is already reorienting its trade eastward and has always found ways around sanctions in the past. But with more avenues closing off every month, those evasive measures are likely to be ever more cumbersome and expensive.
Ordinary Iranians complain that the sanctions are hurting them, while those at the top are unscathed, or even benefit. Many wealthy Iranians made huge profits in recent weeks by buying dollars at the government rate (available to insiders) and then selling them for almost twice as many rials on the soaring black market. Some analysts and opposition political figures contend that Mr. Ahmadinejad deliberately worsened the currency crisis so that his cronies could generate profits this way.
Javad's travel agency is a striking illustration of Iran's current plight. With six weeks left before the Persian New Year, the phone should be ringing off the hook with reservations for holiday travel, he said. Instead, ''there's been no business for the past three weeks.''
It's not just that would-be travelers are frightened. The agency cannot price its holiday packages, because with exchange rates fluctuating wildly, they do not know what rate to use.
''Every day it's something new,'' Javad said, gazing up at a tourism poster of China on his office wall. Foreign travel to Iran has almost entirely disappeared. Two years ago, Javad's foreign clients were mostly Europeans; now they are entirely Russians and Chinese, and even they have been scared off in recent weeks, with Iranian officials threatening to close the Strait of Hormuz and rising fears of a war. (Russia and China remain Iran's only supporters in the United Nations Security Council.)
''We had a booking for 300 Chinese, for their New Year,'' Javad said. ''Only 30 or 40 came.''
Even Iranians who oppose their government tend to see the growing economic pressure as an unfair gesture unlikely to yield any positive results.
''We know they want to pressure us so we rise against our government, but we are not in a position to do that,'' said Murad, a haggard 41-year-old waiter at a Tehran tea shop. Like many middle- and lower-class Iranians, Murad seemed to blame both his own government and the West for his plight. He makes about $50 a day in the tea shop where he has worked for 25 years, he said, and with three children at home, his life has gotten measurably harder in the past year.
''Prices are going up so much I have to work all the time, and we still can't buy new clothes even once a year,'' he said. ''The rich don't suffer, they are protected. The truth is, we'd like to have good relations with the West. What is the point of 'Death to the U.S.A.'? But what can we do about this?''
The crisis has taken a toll on medical care, affecting the middle class as well as the poor. Because of the ever-tighter pressure on any kind of trade with Iran, the black market price of Herceptin, a breast cancer drug, has nearly doubled in the past year, said Lian, a young nurse who works in the cancer ward of one of Tehran's major hospitals (the government regulates the mainstream supply of such drugs, but supplies are very limited).
The sanctions have also affected medical technology, because radiology machines fall under the ''dual use'' provisions of laws aimed at keeping nuclear technology out of Iran. At Shohada Hospital, one of the country's premier institutions, about 1,200 cancer patients a year go without radiological treatment, because the radiology equipment is no longer working and replacement parts cannot be brought into Iran, said Pejman Razavi, a doctor at the hospital.
Many Iranians are also skeptical about the Western preoccupation with Iran's nuclear program. ''The economic pressure will not push Iran to a nuclear settlement,'' said Kayhan Barzegar, the director of the Institute for Middle East Strategic Studies, who has taught in the United States. ''The nuclear file is a nationalistic issue; it's too late for Iran to backtrack. Domestic politics will react negatively to any negotiation -- candidates in the elections will say: you sold the nuclear program!''
In an interview, Ali Akbar Javanfekr, an adviser to Mr. Ahmadinejad, also dismissed the sanctions as counterproductive, saying Iranians had suffered worse isolation during the 1980s and had always found ways around them. ''This is not the way to approach us,'' Mr. Javanfekr said. ''You should instead speak to us with respect. You should win our heart.''
Some Iranian businessmen make similar comments, noting that there are always ingenious new ways to sell oil and to transfer money, and that the people who will suffer most from sanctions are not the ones who can pressure the government for change. ''So you kill the pistachio trade in Iran,'' one businessman said. ''How does that stop nuclear enrichment?''
But the businessman also noted that when Iran last suffered similar privations, in the 1980s, the economy was far smaller, and the revolutionary zeal for self-sacrifice far greater. Iran's leadership was also far more unified than it is today.
''The question is, when this panic translates into a real diminution in the living standard, will Iranians be willing to take it?'' the businessman said. ''That's when these guys will really be in trouble.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above left, Tehran's old main bazaar. In Iran, prices on many imported goods are way up, reflecting a weaker Iranian currency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VAHID SALEMI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FOOD PRICES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); RELIGION (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (56%); ALI KHAMENEI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



255 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Europe Refuses to Budge on Airline Emissions Fee

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- The European Commission said Monday that it would continue charging airlines for their greenhouse gas emissions, despite an announcement from China that its carriers would be forbidden to pay without its permission.
The E.U. program, which began Jan. 1, requires airlines to account for all emissions on flights using European airports and represents the Union's boldest move to protect the environment.
''We're not backing down in our legislation,'' said Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for the commission, the executive body of the European Union. ''We'll apply this to companies operating in Europe.'' 
Europe says its system is less costly than portrayed and would speed up the adoption of greener technologies at a time when air traffic, which represents about 3 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions, is growing much faster than gains in efficiency.
Earlier Monday, the Chinese air regulator effectively prohibited the country's carriers from paying those charges or other fees, or increasing ticket prices in response to the E.U. system, without permission from the government.
The Chinese government said it was also considering unspecified measures to protect Chinese companies, something Europe can ill afford as it looks to China to help ease its debt crisis. European countries also want access to China's fast-growing economy, including free-spending Chinese tourists who might not show up.
The intensifying dispute is another sign that European environmental regulations could lead to a trade war if governments start retaliating against carriers or products.
Much is at stake for Europe, which has sought to improve its international stature by spearheading initiatives on climate protection, including folding aviation into the Union's six-year-old Emissions Trading System, in which polluters can buy and sell a limited quantity of permits, each representing a ton of carbon dioxide.
But making airlines account for flights that begin or end in faraway cities like Beijing has turned the system into one of the most contested environmental initiatives ever undertaken.
Airbus, the European aircraft maker, has already raised concerns that a trade conflict over the law could affect its businesses, and on Monday, Antony Tyler, the director general of the International Air Transport Association, a body representing the global airline industry, warned that some airlines could face a backlash.
''We're concerned also about retaliatory measures taken by non-E.U. governments against E.U. carriers,'' Mr. Tyler said. That was ''an increasingly possible outcome,'' he said, since the United States, China, India and Russia could discuss such steps at a meeting in Moscow on Feb. 21.
In the United States, the House of Representatives approved a bill last year that would ban U.S. air carriers from participating in the system. A similar bill has been introduced in the Senate.
The first payments by the airlines are due in early 2013, covering emissions from 2012. That still could leave time for the Europeans and foreign governments and airlines to reach a compromise, perhaps through the International Civil Aviation Organization, or I.C.A.O., an arm of the United Nations.
In the past, Europeans have strongly criticized the I.C.A.O. for dragging its heels on establishing standards and targets for greenhouse gases from aviation, a responsibility it was given under the Kyoto climate treaty 15 years ago.
But if the member countries of the I.C.A.O. significantly step up action to create a global system, the Europeans could relax, or even drop their system, and still save face.
Mr. Tyler, the head of the airline association, said Europe's decision to unilaterally introduce its system had already pushed the I.C.A.O. to take a more urgent approach.
''Europe can take credit for that,'' Mr. Tyler said.
For the moment, there is unlikely to be any immediate disruption to flights between Europe and China, or Europe and the United States, or penalties for Chinese and American airlines.
But airlines soon could be in a legal limbo, where their governments prohibit them from participating, but where they also risk breaking European law by refusing to pay.
Last month, the commission warned that airlines that flouted the law would face steep fines and then could face being banned from European airports.
In fact, many airlines probably will face little pain to begin with, and some may even profit.
Airlines will receive about 85 percent of their permits at no charge, to make it affordable for the carriers and their passengers to bear the cost of the system while the industry develops ways of cutting pollution.
Chinese airlines are among those that have applied for their free allocation.
Most airlines are expected to pass along the costs of the permits they buy -- as well as the ones they receive free -- by charging passengers a bit more for their tickets.
''The savviest airlines are figuring out that it makes sense to participate,'' said Annie Petsonk, the international counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund, an environmental organization that favors carbon trading as a means to reduce emissions.
Last month, Delta added a $3 surcharge on fares to Europe in response to the system, and U.S. Airways and American Airlines have taken similar measures.
The added revenue from those charges could enable the airlines to buy the credits they need in advance while the prices of permits are low because of the weak economy, and to sell any surplus at a profit if prices recover, Ms. Petsonk said.
According to E.U. officials, the maximum increase in the price of a ticket between Europe and China should be less than 2, or $2.60, far less than the amount that many passengers routinely pay in the form of airport taxes in many countries.
The bigger worry for airlines is that they are looking at the thin end of an enormous wedge. The sums charged by the Europeans for permits could grow substantially in coming years if governments decide to auction a larger proportion of permits and if demand for the permits rises.
Mr. Tyler, the head of the airline association, conceded that some airlines that had cut capacity in recent years might be able to make money from the system.
But he said that the majority of airlines had grown capacity significantly since the European Union made its calculations about the volume of emissions and that, over all, the airlines would face costs of $1.2 billion in 2012 to pay for permits, rising to $3.6 billion in 2020.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Passenger exited a plane in China, which effectively said Monday that it would not pay the fees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIR FARES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); TICKET SALES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); DEBT CRISIS (65%); AIRCRAFT MFG (63%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) EUROPE (99%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



256 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Give Her Family A Better Life Than Hers

BYLINE: By MATHEW R. WARREN

 BODY:
Enid Cruz was fed up. She was tired of seeing people fight and sell drugs outside her building in East Harlem. She wanted a fresh start not only for herself, but also for her youngest daughter and her granddaughter. Though she and her children had grown up in the neighborhood, she said, it was time to go.
''I wanted to try something new, and I thought I could afford it,'' she said.
Reared by a single mother who had epileptic seizures, Ms. Cruz, 47, had climbed her way out of an impoverished childhood of public assistance and food stamps that never went very far, she said. 
''There were times when we would have our lights turned off or there was no money to get school clothes,'' she recalled.
But her work ethic kicked in early. At 14, Ms. Cruz got a job as an ice cream scooper. After graduating from high school, she got an associate's degree, became a nurse's assistant, received clerical training in a transitional work program through the city's Human Resources Administration, worked as a residential aide at a homeless shelter and was employed by a company that outsourced clerical workers. Ms. Cruz then settled into her current job as a trademark docketing clerk for a law firm.
All the while, she reared four children mostly on her own, determined not to let them experience the poverty she had faced during her childhood. Ms. Cruz was living in a Section 8 apartment, for which she paid $864 a month, when she decided to make her move, in June 2010. She rented a two-bedroom apartment in the Country Club section of the Bronx and took her daughter Jaynette, 14, and her granddaughter, Dalani, 5, of whom she has legal custody, with her.
Ms. Cruz's son, Steven, 21, who occasionally found short-term jobs helping his father clean and maintain building vents, took over the lease to the apartment in East Harlem. Her daughter Sasha, 23, Dalani's mother, who has had jobs in retail but was now pregnant, stayed with him. Because her son was unemployed at the time, the Section 8 subsidy was increased to cover most of the rent.
Ms. Cruz believed she could manage the $1,300-a-month rent at her new place, but after seven months, she found herself struggling to keep up with expenses. Then she discovered that the management of her old building was planning to move her son into a studio apartment, saying he could not continue receiving the Section 8 subsidy otherwise. Sasha would have nowhere to live.
In despair over her financial straits and wanting to keep a roof over her daughter's head, Ms. Cruz asked for permission to move back into her old apartment at the old rent, and the management company agreed, she said.
In December 2010, Ms. Cruz returned to her old neighborhood with Jaynette and Dalani. Her disappointment was magnified when she found out that because she had broken her lease at the new apartment, she could not get her $1,300 security deposit back. She had been depending on the money to make ends meet, since she was the breadwinner in her family. Jaynette's father, who worked as a stagehand, was unable to help, though he had provided assistance in the past, she said. Eventually, she fell two months behind on rent.
Fearing eviction, Ms. Cruz turned to the Children's Aid Society, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which drew $799 from the fund in April to help her cover her arrears, and she paid off the rest on her own.
Now, she has developed a system to manage her expenses. With her first paycheck of the month, she pays the rent and other bills. With her second check, she covers the cost of food for her family and other bills.
''I've learned how to budget my money,'' Ms. Cruz said. ''I just want to make sure it's a comfortable environment for my children.''
Her son is enrolled in G.E.D. classes, and Sasha has hopes of going to college. Ms. Cruz is pushing them to become independent. ''I want them to be on their feet and be able to take care of themselves,'' she said.
Jaynette, who is the team manager of her high school basketball team, said her mother deserved to have things to go her way for a change.
''She's always there when somebody's in need,'' Jaynette said. ''I'd like to see my mother get what she wants because I know she doesn't all the time.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Enid Cruz went back to the East Harlem neighborhood she had been eager to leave, in part to ensure her daughter had a home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $6,309,501, Recorded Friday 63,409, Total $6,372,910, Last year to date $5,961,716 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); OUTSOURCING (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); SINGLE PARENTS (71%); PROPERTY LEASES (71%); EPILEPSY (70%); ETHICS (68%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (68%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (66%); NURSES & NURSING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



257 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Radioisotope Recipe Lacks One Ingredient: Cash

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For years, scientists and policy makers have been trying to address two improbably linked problems that hinge on a single radioactive isotope: how to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons proliferation, and how to assure supplies of a material used in thousands of heart, kidney and breast procedures a year.
They seemed to be getting close to a solution. But now General Electric, the company that developed a technology for carrying it out, has quietly dropped work on the project, saying it is not commercially viable. 
The isotope is technetium 99m, or tech 99 for short. It is useful in diagnostic tests because it throws off an easy-to-detect gamma ray; also, because it breaks down very quickly, it gives only a small dose of radiation to the patient.
But the recipe for tech 99 requires another isotope, molybdenum 99, that is now made in nuclear reactors using weapon-grade uranium. In May 2009, a Canadian reactor that makes most of the North American supply of moly 99 was shut because of a safety problem. A second reactor, in the Netherlands, was simultaneously closed for repairs.
The 54-year-old Canadian reactor, Chalk River in Ontario, is running now, but its license expires in four years. Canada built two replacement reactors, but even though they turned out to be unusable, their construction discouraged potential competitors.
So the United States Energy Department, which regulates nuclear weapons, has been trying to find a way to make the molybdenum isotope without relying on leaky reactors that use bomb fuel. And in 2010 General Electric, which designs power reactors, came up with an innovative solution.
The commercial reactors have a big flow of neutrons, and if an atom of natural molybdenum absorbs one, it becomes moly 99.
G.E.'s reactors have an opening at the bottom for an instrument that measures the neutron density. The company said it could replace that monitor with a ''target'' made of molybdenum and pull it back out after about seven days, so it could be sent to a chemical processing plant for recovery of the moly 99.
The company even picked out a reactor, Exelon's Clinton plant in DeWitt County, Ill. And it lined up industrial partners for the parts of the process it would not do itself, and tested the concept in research reactors.
There is a drawback, though. Only about 24 percent of natural molybdenum is moly 98, the kind that can be converted to moly 99. To produce a given volume of tech 99, the volume of molybdenum in the generator has to be far larger.
Enter another player: Perma-Fix, a company based in Atlanta that makes a resin for treating contaminants at polluted industrial sites.
The company came up with a resin that will hold the atom when it is molybdenum but release it when it decomposes into technetium. Perma-Fix executives say this is a good complement to the G.E. system.
But G.E. has given up. When the Canadian reactor was restarted, it said, it decided that its technology was not financially competitive. In a statement, G.E. said that while it and Exelon were confident ''that large quantities of molybdenum 99 could safely be produced'' in one of their reactors, financial projections ''do not support the remaining cost.''
Kevin Walsh, a nuclear-fuel executive at General Electric, said that the company would finish developing the system if the economics improved but that for now, ''we've put all the engineering aside.''
Louis Centofanti, chairman and chief executive of Perma-Fix, said his company was trying to line up other reactors to process the molybdenum. Federal officials say Perma-Fix may have a time advantage, because it is not using government money and thus does not have to file an environmental impact statement.
But experts say it may be nearly impossible to develop an alternative supply while highly enriched uranium is still in use, even though the reactors that do that work have an uncertain lifetime. Chalk River's license expired last year, but it was given a single five-year extension; the Dutch reactor's lifetime is less certain but also limited.
''The economics is key,'' said Parrish Staples, director of European and African threat reduction at the National Nuclear Security Administration, who has been meeting with European officials looking for ways to stop using highly enriched uranium. The old, unreliable reactors now in use are subsidized by government, he said.
His agency backed G.E. but also a number of other companies. One, NorthStar Medical Radioisotopes, uses an accelerator to create gamma rays that bombard yet another type of molybdenum, moly 100; the bombardment causes the substance to eject a neutron and become moly 99.
Another organization, the Morgridge Institute for Research in Wisconsin, uses an accelerator to bombard uranium in a liquid solution, but it uses uranium with a much lower content of uranium 235, the kind that is useful in bombs.
And the Energy Department is helping finance a research program at Babcock & Wilcox to develop a new kind of reactor, in which uranium will be circulated in a liquid, and split; fission products, including the desired type of molybdenum, will be filtered out of the liquid for medical use.
Dr. Andrew J. Einstein, an assistant professor of clinical medicine at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, who testified before a Senate committee in 2008 about the isotope shortage, said supplies were adequate at the moment.
But he drew a biblical analogy. ''This is the seven years of plenty,'' he said. ''It certainly is time to be preparing for supply beyond Chalk River.''
Dr. Einstein said that when tech 99 was not available, doctors could use substitutes, but that these gave the patient larger radiation doses or provided poorer image quality to the doctor.
And for some uses, doctors can substitute PET scans, he said. But the equipment is in high demand for other procedures, and many medical facilities do not have it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LAST LEGS: A warning at the 54-year-old Chalk River reactor in Ontario, whose license expires in four years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS WATTIE/REUTERS) GRAPHICS: Medical Isotopes: General Electric has stopped work on an experimental method of making technetium 99m, a radioactive isotope widely used in medical procedures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (77%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); WATER POLLUTION (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (78%); ONTARIO, CANADA (70%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



258 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: The Payroll Tax Fight

 BODY:
Republicans in Congress seem to have forgotten the embarrassment they suffered late last year for trying to block a payroll tax cut for millions of wage-earners. The two-month extension they reluctantly approved will run out in three weeks, yet, again, they are stalling a full-year's tax cut with extraneous issues and political ploys. 
The need for the 2-percentage-point payroll tax break is as great now as it was in December. Without it, 160 million people who get paychecks would have to pay the government nearly $1,000 more. The increase would severely reduce growth and derail the slow-moving economic recovery. Failure to agree on a tax cut would also cut off unemployment benefits for tens of thousands of workers in many of the hardest-hit states.
Politically, however, extending the tax break would represent a victory for President Obama, who has been championing it. That remains intolerable to many Republicans, particularly in the House. So they are insisting on several extraneous provisions that have nothing to do with a tax cut for the middle class, hoping either to achieve a few ideological victories for themselves or force negotiations with Democrats to a standstill.
At the behest of the manufacturing lobby, for example, Republican negotiators still want to delay an environmental regulation that would require industrial boilers and incinerators to release less mercury, lead and soot. What does that have to do with the payroll tax cut? Nothing, of course; Republicans are simply trying to get Democrats to pay a price for something they want.
They also want to require the jobless to be in G.E.D. programs and to undergo drug testing to get benefits, two punitive measures designed to stigmatize the desperate. And they still want a provision reviving the Keystone XL oil pipeline, hoping to fool voters into believing that Democrats who oppose it are somehow against jobs -- even though the pipeline will create a very small number of long-term jobs. (The two sides have also failed to agree on how to prevent a cut in Medicare payments to doctors, which could drive many of them from the program.)
The biggest outstanding question, as it was last year, is how to pay for the tax cut for the next 10 months, which would cost about $90 billion. The best idea was still the original Democratic proposal, rejected by Republicans, to impose a surcharge on taxpayers who make more than $1 million a year. Democrats are now considering cutting corporate loopholes and using some savings from winding down the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. There is no pressing need to offset the jobless benefits, which Republicans did not do when they held power in previous decades.
Republicans, on the other hand, are only interested in extending the tax benefits for working Americans if they can punish other groups. They want to extend the freeze on wages for federal workers to a third consecutive year, and appeal to their base by barring the use of welfare debit cards at casinos and strip clubs. This is hardly a national problem; a few states have allowed that, but most have cracked down on it.
Republicans seem no more serious about cutting the tax and stimulating the economy than they were in December. They may be furious that President Obama is campaigning against a do-nothing Congress, but they don't seem as if they're planning to actually do something.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); LOBBYING (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); MEDICARE (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (62%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



259 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: After Early Gallop, Albany Slows to Crawl in Making Decision on Gas Drilling

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
When Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo took office last year, his administration seemed to be in hurry-up mode as it decided whether to allow hydraulic fracturing, a controversial gas drilling process. State regulators kept to tight deadlines to produce for public review an environmental impact study and proposed drilling rules, and the state's top environmental official said drilling permits could be granted as early as this year.
But now, a decision on the process, known as hydrofracking -- its scope, its timing or whether it will happen at all -- seems much more uncertain, and the approval process has slowed considerably despite almost four years of study, debate and intense lobbying on both sides of the issue.
Mr. Cuomo did not mention hydrofracking in his State of the State address last month, and did not provide money in his proposed budget for the 2013 fiscal year for regulating the new industry. 
The governor's office declined to answer questions Monday on the slowing of the approval calendar, but cited a statement by Mr. Cuomo in the fall of 2011 that a decision on hydrofracking should be based ''on the facts and on the science.''
''This is not an issue to be decided by politics or emotion,'' the governor added.
State regulators say they need more time to deal with the unprecedented volume of public comments about the drilling plan by the Department of Environmental Conservation -- more than 46,000 for or against, or pointing out unresolved concerns. Others say there is less urgency given the low market price of natural gas and a recent announcement by some major drilling companies that they plan to curtail production.
Even some of the most outspoken advocates for hydrofracking are showing patience, including Tom Libous, the second-ranking Republican in the State Senate, who represents the natural-gas-rich Southern Tier, on the Pennsylvania border.
''I wouldn't say it's a given,'' he said of the state's permitting hydrofracking. ''Economically, we need it desperately. But at the end of the day, if the scientists and geologists at the D.E.C. say 'this is not a good thing to do,' I'm not going to challenge it.''
New York officials have been cautious from the start, revising and twice submitting for public review an environmental impact document incorporating the lessons learned from other states that allow hydrofracking on the Marcellus Shale. The extraction process uses vast amounts of water, chemicals and sand to release gas from tight rock and has posed environmental risks, some of them still under study by the Environmental Protection Agency. As New York decides, new concerns have surfaced, including the fear of water contamination and seismic activity related to the disposal of drilling waste.
Opposition to hydrofracking has grown and organized. Some elected officials said the controversy had raised new political considerations, especially during this election year.
''It's causing everybody to say, 'Let's not rush into this,' '' said Assemblyman Robert K. Sweeney, a Democrat from Suffolk County who has sponsored a bill calling for a moratorium on hydrofracking until June 2013, to allow more time for study.
Mr. Sweeney, who leads the Assembly's Environmental Conservation Committee, said the strong public sentiment could not be lost on the Cuomo administration.
''The first time something bad happens,'' he said of the consequences of drilling, ''it's going to come right back to them.''
Last month, in his most recent remarks on the subject, Mr. Cuomo indicated that hydrofracking was very much an ''if.''
''You would not be hiring staff to regulate hydrofracking unless you believed you were going ahead with hydrofracking,'' he told reporters. ''And we haven't made that determination. So the budget won't anticipate hydrofracking approval.''
An 18-member advisory panel convened by Joseph Martens, the state environmental commissioner, to determine how to pay for state workers overseeing hydrofracking postponed issuing its recommendations, missing the Nov. 1 deadline. The panel has been on hiatus since December. Two of its meetings have been canceled since the public comment period closed Jan. 11, as the Environmental Conservation Department reviews the mounds of feedback, sifting for any information that would warrant further revisions.
Robert Moore, a panel member and executive director of Environmental Advocates of New York, said the costs of minimizing hydrofracking's risks had become a bigger issue now that some gas companies have gone into a retrenchment in response to the glut of natural gas. The industry would ultimately be responsible for the fees and taxes necessary to defray the costs of hiring and training state regulatory workers.
''With gas prices being what they are, it's unclear what profits can be made,'' he said. ''If there's no profit, there's no tax revenue.''
Another panel member, Assemblywoman Donna A. Lupardo, a Democrat from Broome County, said, ''It all boils down to two questions: what level of risk are we willing to accept, and at what cost?''
Gas companies are fighting New York's proposed rules, arguing that they go too far and impose unnecessary restrictions and costs on the industry. Companies already estimate that they would have to spend an extra $1 million per well to drill in the state because of tougher requirements, including a rule that would require an extra layer of cemented well casing to prevent the gas from seeping out. Despite the market and the regulatory challenges, companies remain eager to drill, and to determine how much shale gas New York wells might yield.
''We don't even know the quality of the resource in New York, and how New York production compares to neighboring states,'' said Thomas S. West, an Albany lawyer who represents oil and gas companies. ''If we opened the door, it'll be a very slow ramp-up, and that's a good thing.''
Environmental advocates note that the industry has every incentive to pursue drilling in the state, since it anticipates a bright future in the long term, particularly as it pursues federal approvals for exporting liquefied natural gas overseas. Lawsuits challenging what the state does could also alter the timeline.
''If the D.E.C. doesn't adequately respond to the comments, there'll likely be litigation,'' said Deborah Goldberg, a lawyer with the environmental law firm Earthjustice.
Among those seeking a drilling ban, some have said they are prepared to engage in civil disobedience if it will stop the new drilling technique.
''People are ready to take unusual action,'' said Assemblywoman Barbara Lifton, a Democrat from Tompkins County and a vocal hydrofracking opponent. ''I've never seen anything like it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (72%); POLITICS (70%); BUDGETS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (64%); WATER POLLUTION (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



260 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: European Banks Loath To Lend to Companies

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
7:57 p.m. Updated
LONDON - European governments are not the only ones struggling with debt. So are some of the region's companies.
As profits and sales slip, some European businesses are scrambling to pay their bills. Because banks are reluctant to lend, the fear is that companies will not be able to borrow the cash they need and will be forced to take drastic action, further weighing on the economy.
''There's a lack of business confidence across Europe'' said Jonathan Loynes, chief European economist in London at the research organization Capital Economics. ''Lending to the private sector is deteriorating, and there's enormous stress on the European economy.''
The pressure is mounting. Insolvency - when a company's debts exceed its assets and cash flow - is expected to rise 12 percent this year in the euro zone. Countries including Greece, Spain and Italy are expected to record the highest annual increases. In the United States, the number of insolvencies is falling. 
In January, Petroplus Holdings of Switzerland, the largest independent oil refiner in Europe, said it was filing for insolvency after lenders demanded repayment on $1.75 billion of outstanding debt. The company, facing dwindling margins as a result of high oil prices and weak economic conditions, tried to negotiate with creditors. But BNP Paribas of France, Credit Suisse of Switzerland and other lenders already dealing with the fallout from the European sovereign debt crisis decided that Petroplus was not worth the risk.
''We were ultimately not able to come to an agreement with our lenders to resolve these issues given the very tight and difficult European credit and refining markets,'' the company's chief executive, Jean-Paul Vettier, said on Jan. 24.
Now other companies, including energy multinationals and private equity firms, are sifting through the pieces. Nearly 40 bidders are assessing the British operations of Petroplus, said PricewaterhouseCoopers, which is overseeing the sale of the assets in Britain.
It is a bad omen. Roughly two-thirds of European companies that become insolvent will eventually file for bankruptcy, said Ludovic Subran, chief economist of Euler Hermes, a credit insurance company in Paris.
''The business environment has become worse,'' Mr. Subran said. ''Many companies are losing their competitiveness and being hit by a reduction in consumer spending.''
This year is shaping up badly for the Continent. The International Monetary Fund said on Jan. 24 that the euro zone's gross domestic product would fall an estimated 0.5 percent in 2012. The downturn is expected to be most severe in Southern Europe, where Italy's economy is forecast to contract by 2.2 percent and Spain's by 1.7 percent.
The economic headwinds are wreaking havoc on corporate profits. As Europe grapples with recession, unemployment is rising, consumer confidence is plunging and manufacturing orders are falling.
Consumer-focused companies have been hit especially hard. In January, the giant British retailer Tesco issued its first profit warning in more than 20 years, and said earnings for 2012 would be $709 million lower than analysts' expectations. Carrefour of France, the global grocery chain that recently replaced its chief executive, has estimated that operating income for last year would fall by 15 to 20 percent, with sales taking a hit in France and Southern Europe.
''Banks are being more conservative about who they lend to, and Europe's economic problems are weighing on companies' future prospects,'' said Brian Lochead, a business recovery services partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers in London. ''One problem is driving the other.''
Without the financial lifeline banks can offer, debt-laden businesses are selling assets and cutting investment to conserve cash.
To restructure its finances, Punch Taverns, a British pub chain that borrowed $7.4 billion to expand rapidly in the last decade, decided to split itself in two last year. A smaller group, the Spirit Pub Company, was created with Punch's most profitable locations. Punch, which was left holding 75 percent of its $4.8 billion in outstanding debt, is now trying to sell more pubs to reduce its burden. Roger Whiteside, the chief executive of Punch, said the plan would help return the company to growth in the next five years.
Some companies are running out of options.
In December, Seat Pagine Gialle, the Italian yellow-pages publisher, said it would not pay $72 million to creditors as the company looked to restructure its balance sheet. It was the second time Seat Pagine Gialle had defaulted on its debt in less than a year, although creditors have yet to push the company into insolvency. Others may follow. European companies with credit ratings below investment grade have a combined $72 billion of debt due this year, according to Standard & Poor's. Defaults among this group are expected to rise by as much as 8.4 percent in 2012, S.& P. estimates.
The sovereign debt crisis is only making the problems worse. A recent survey released by the European Central Bank showed that institutions reduced the credit available to companies in the third quarter of 2011, the latest figures available. More worrying for Europe's corporate sector, banks also said they would pull back even further in the last three months of 2011.
''If companies aren't viable and don't have access to refinancing, banks don't want to throw good money after bad,'' said Angel Martin Torres, head of restructuring for Spain at the accountancy firm KPMG.
Regulators' efforts to spur lending have yet to pay off. In December, the European Central Bank moved to provide the financial sector with 489 billion euros ($639 billion) of low-interest loans. Authorities had hoped the money would ease the credit pressure on European banks so they would start lending again to the wider economy.
But instead of offering the money to credit-starved companies, institutions have preferred to deposit the cash with the central bank for safekeeping. On Jan. 18, officials said European banks had parked about $700 billion in overnight deposits with the central bank, the highest level since the euro was established in 1999.
The distress could open the doors for potential takeovers. Cash-rich multinationals, including Siemens of Germany and Philips of the Netherlands, have been hunting for attractive assets at troubled companies. Private equity firms that specialize in buying distressed assets also are on the lookout.
In January, Sun European Partners, the private equity firm, bought Bonmarche, a division of the insolvent British fashion chain Peacocks that caters to older women. Sun European already owns other retailers in the sector.
''Many companies have good assets but bad capital structures,'' said Mark Sterling, managing partner of the law firm Allen & Overy's restructuring and insolvency practice in London. ''So if they are good underlying businesses and have no sources of refinancing, that creates opportunities.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Coryton refinery in England is owned by Petroplus of Switzerland. The company is filing for insolvency after lenders decided it was too risky. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN WERMUTH/REUTERS) (B1)
 Tesco, the huge British retailer, predicted last month that 2012 earnings would be $709 million short of analysts' expectations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); CREDIT INSURANCE (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (69%); COMMERCIAL CREDIT INSURANCE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%)

COMPANY: PETROPLUS HOLDINGS AG (83%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); EULER HERMES SA (53%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); EUE (FRA) (53%); ELE (PAR) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (83%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC5171 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) EUROPE (97%); SWITZERLAND (93%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (58%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



261 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: High Ambitions for a Commercial Arts Center in Harlem

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
There was no shortage of raised eyebrows when Carlton A. Brown sought investors for the ground-floor retail space of the Kalahari Condominium on West 116th street in Harlem. The restaurant that Mr. Brown and his partners envisioned might not have seemed too outlandish. But combining it with three theaters for live entertainment and independent films, as well as post-production studios, all to create a $21 million ''living room'' of black and Latino-flavored arts and culture? Not exactly a business slam-dunk. One bank suggested that they use the 20,000-square-foot space for something a bit more sensible, say renting it to a drugstore.
But Mr. Brown and his partners pushed ahead with their vision of a for-profit cultural center, and the result, My Image Studios, is to open this summer. Last fall MIST, as the partners refer to it, hired a director of programming, Alexa Birdsong, a former executive producer of Central Park SummerStage and an associate director of Jazz at Lincoln Center. 
''This is an opportunity for us to aggregate our culture, if you will,'' said Roland Laird, the chief executive officer of My Image and a former vice president at Swiss American Securities. ''There will be theater, music, poetry slams, films. We're lining up a roster of films and filmmakers now and reaching out to smaller arts organizations and emerging and established artists. We're telling black and Latin film festivals this is the place to be.''
''And it's not exclusive,'' he continued. ''We want to promote culture to anyone who's interested. If there's a Japanese artist who plays hip-hop, we'd love to have them.''
The ambitions for this cultural center in Harlem are high, but there is skepticism. Hope Knight, the chief operating officer of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, a nonprofit economic development group, said My Image was a hard sell when the owners sought assistance because of the various endeavors involved.
''Putting them all together makes it difficult to manage and operate, particularly in this economic climate,'' Ms. Knight said. ''Despite Marcus Samuelsson's having a wildly successful venture in the Red Rooster, most restaurants up here struggle. There are a number of venues up here with that kind of arts and culture, and their calendar is put together 18 months in advance. I look forward to a time when a commercial venture like this can be successful, but I think we -- the community -- need more time.''
A cultural center was always in the plans for the mixed-income 249-unit Kalahari condominium, which opened in 2008 at 40 West 116th Street. Mr. Brown, the chief operating officer of Full Spectrum of N.Y., which developed the Kalahari with L+M Development Partners, said the need for neutral ground where diverse cultures can meet was particularly true in the new, richer and whiter Harlem.
After seeing too many nonprofit cultural institutions twist in the winds of economic downturns, Mr. Brown, who studied architecture and urban planning at Princeton, said he had the ''blasphemous idea'' that My Image should be commercial.
''Culturally specific arts organizations especially'' face difficulties getting individual contributions and establishing large endowments, he said, mentioning his own experience as a board member at 651 Arts, a Brooklyn presenter of contemporary African diaspora performances. But studies show that culture is ''under-retailed'' in Harlem and that tourist dollars could be better captured, Mr. Brown said.
''We have a lot of opportunity for flexibility,'' Mr. Brown said. ''Bringing in more customers to do a wider variety of things is how you make money.''
That idea appealed enough that BRP Community Development allocated $21 million in federal New Market Tax Credits for the center. The tax credit program is intended to aid investment in distressed areas.
The Goldman Sachs Urban Investment Group bought the credit and provided about $10 million in debt and equity financing for the project, to go with a $4 million loan from the Prudential Insurance Company and $7 million in equity investment from Full Spectrum of N.Y., whose chief executive, Walter J. Edwards, is also a partner in My Image.
''We're not just building buildings,'' said Alicia Glen, managing director of the Urban Investment Group at Goldman Sachs. ''We're trying to build neighborhoods and communities. What has been missing in what has been called the second Harlem Renaissance is really focusing on the needs of the community that include these vibrant entertainment and dining options that are the lifeblood of any neighborhood.''
Designed by A. Jay Hibbs of Hibbs Architects in Wappingers Falls, N.Y., My Image will have two 91-seat theaters and a third with 162 seats, which can all be combined to create a larger theater or banquet space. The post-production facilities for digital media will be used to train local young people, in partnership with nonprofit organizations.
The center will have a lobby bar, as well as an outdoor bar and dining area. And negotiations are under way with a chef for the restaurant.
Ms. Birdsong said she would like to program live entertainment at least five nights a week, everything from dance parties to spoken-word performances, with some mix of rhythm and blues, neo-soul, jazz, salsa and African music. Tickets for music performances will probably range from $15 to $35, she said.
Ms. Birdsong will work with consultants to devise a film line-up, which will feature some commercial films. ''If I were open now, I'd like to have a film like 'Come Back, Africa,' which recently ended a run at the Film Forum,'' she said, referring to the 1959 classic about black life in South Africa.
Danny Glover, the actor and filmmaker, and Warrington Hudlin, the founding president of the Black Filmmaker Foundation, said they were excited about a new showcase for independent black and Latino films. ''My Image Studios is giving a geographic location to all this free-floating energy that has been around for decades now,'' said Mr. Hudlin, a producer of ''House Party'' and ''Boomerang.''
Voza Rivers, the chairman of the Harlem Arts Alliance, a service organization, said that while turning a profit is far from assured, he was heartened that My Image was providing more performance space in Harlem. Arts groups leaders are mostly welcoming, he said, though curious about a commercial enterprise led by partners without a history of creating and sustaining cultural institutions.
''My Image Studios is coming out with a very aggressive project that we have not seen,'' Mr. Rivers said.
The principals behind My Image know they are taking a risk. ''We'll give it two years to see if it's headed in the right direction,'' Mr. Brown said.
They do not, however, lack for confidence.
''We're like that No. 1 draft pick expected to produce right away,'' Mr. Laird added. ''But the upside is so huge.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROLAND LAIRD: Chief executive of My Image Studios, with Alexa Birdsong, director of programming. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); POETRY (70%); HIP HOP CULTURE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RAP MUSIC (65%); THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



262 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Is Called Racially Insensitive

BYLINE: By STEVEN YACCINO and JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
5:38 p.m. Updated A beautiful landscape comes into view. An Asian woman pedals her bicycle down a dirt road. Chinese instruments fill the soundtrack as she speaks in broken English. So began the ad, paid for by Peter Hoekstra, a Republican contender for the United States Senate in Michigan.
And so began the latest Super Bowl ad controversy over an ad that ran during the game that was broadcast on Michigan stations. 
While Mr. Hoekstra defended his commercial as revealing the ''reckless spending'' of Debbie Stabenow, the incumbent senator and a Democrat, critics denounced the spot as racially insensitive.
''Debbie spend so much American money,'' the woman said. ''You borrow more and more from us. Your economy get very weak. Ours get very good. We take your jobs.''
The commercial ends with a clip of Mr. Hoekstra, a former congressman who ran for governor in 2010, dubbing himself ''Pete Spend-It-Not,'' apparently for his fiscal restraint. It also encourages viewers to visit his new Web site Debbie Spend It Now, which has statistics about federal spending beside images of Chinese flags, currency and stereotypical Chinatown font.
Controversy is common in the Super Bowl commercial lineup. Last year, Groupon took a pounding after an ad that some said took a joke too far, making light of people struggling in Tibet. But it was unclear from Mr. Hoekstra's ad whether he was aiming for lightheartedness.
Among those outraged by the campaign strategy was Asian & Pacific Islander American Vote, a nonprofit organization in Michigan that released a statement condemning the commercial for encouraging ''anti-Asian sentiment'' and noted contributions Asian-Americans have made to Michigan's economy.
Ms. Stabenow's office declined to comment, but issued a statement from Mark Brewer, the chairman of the Michigan Democratic Party, which described the ad as ''shameful'' and ''deceitful'' regarding Ms. Stabenow's record. The state party also released a Web-only ad accusing Mr. Hoekstra of hypocrisy on spending issues.
Mr. Hoekstra could not be reached for comment, but in interviews elsewhere, he did not appear to back down from the message or the way he delivered it.
''There's nothing racist in this ad,'' he said in comments posted online by The Detroit Free Press.
The ''Debbie Spenditnow'' ad was shot not in rural China but in the rice fields of California, with an American actress whose parents are Chinese, said Bill Kenyon, political director of Strategic Perception Inc., the Hollywood-based media firm run by a Republican media veteran, Fred Davis, that created the ad.
Mr. Kenyon, who would not release the name of the actress, said he did not know whether she actually spoke heavily accented, pidgin English, but said the script called for it.
''We only have 30 seconds, so we wanted to throw out something visually that evoked the image of China,'' he said. ''We were trying to portray this as China, not an American enclave of Chinese at some American university.''
The firm, famed for branding former Representative Tom Campbell a ''demon sheep'' during his Senate primary campaign in California against Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard chief executive, also cut an ad for Rick Snyder, a Michigan gubernatorial candidate, calling him ''one tough nerd.'' That nickname stuck. Mr. Snyder was elected governor in 2010. And Mr. Kenyon said his company oped to make a similarly memorable spot for Mr. Hoekstra.
Senator Stabenow is likely to run on her record opposing trade deals with China and calling for crackdowns on the country's manufacturing practices. That gave Strategic Perception the idea of trying to kill two birds with one stone: hitting her on government spending, a perennial Republican line of attack, and linking overspending to helping China at the expense of the United States economy.
''This is one area she can't compete against Pete on,'' Mr. Kenyon said.
A press release on Mr. Hoekstra's Web site said he spent $150,000 on the ad, which will run for two weeks.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: February 6, 2012, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A previous version of this article misstated the name of the Chinese currency. It is renminbi.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); WEB SITES (52%)

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (55%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: PETER HOEKSTRA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



263 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: That Comeback Trail for the Economy? Here, It's Littered With Foreclosures

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
To walk 145th Street in South Jamaica, past red-brick homes with metal awnings and chain-link fences, is to find a storm of immense destructive power still raging.
Three years ago, when I wandered this block south of Linden Boulevard in Queens, banks had foreclosed on eight homes. In the years since, banks have filed notice against a half-dozen more owners. Some of those homes sit abandoned, plywood boards nailed across doors and windows, as if to guard against further spread of this plague.
We are accustomed to hearing politicians talk of a halting recovery from the recession. They detect heartbeats in the job market and flickers of life in house sales. New York and New Jersey, our governors proclaim, are on the comeback trail. 
Not here.
A dozen miles from Midtown Manhattan, the foreclosure belt stretches across the heart of black homeownership in this city, from Canarsie and East New York in Brooklyn, to Springfield Gardens and St. Albans, Queens, where Fats Waller, Count Basie and Ella Fitzgerald once owned handsome Tudor-style homes.
Black Americans came late to homeownership for reasons deeply rooted in our tragic racial history. Black New Yorkers making more than $68,000 are nearly five times as likely to hold high-interest mortgages as whites of similar income, and their default rates are much higher. Now a generation watches as its housing wealth is vaporized.
Organizers with the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project pored over 2011 mortgage default data. They found that 345,000 mortgages in New York State were in default or delinquent last year. In corners of southeast Queens, banks filed as many as 150 delinquency notes for every 1,000 housing units.
Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman says that statewide the number of New Yorkers at risk of losing homes exceeds the population of Buffalo, Syracuse and Rochester combined.
In Jamaica, ''for sale'' signs sit two, three and four to a block. Real estate agents resemble fishermen who've kept lines in the water too long. Of late, matters have grown worse. The federal government has stopped paying counselors and lawyers for those at risk of foreclosure, and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who takes pride in his reinvention as a fiscal conservative, has declined to foot the bill.
I stop Randy Ali, a Guyanese ironworker, as he tinkers with his S.U.V. on 145th Street. Which is his house? He nods at a two-story brick home. ''I paid $360,000.'' He gives a mournful nod. ''I just got a notice from the city that it's valued at $215,000.''
He looks embarrassed. How could he foresee a housing collapse this huge? ''You have a family, you want a place to live.'' Pause. ''Do I walk away?''
Say this much: New Yorkers are better off than those who live in the acres of foreclosed homes in the deserts around Phoenix and Las Vegas. Our politicians are not always an inspiring lot, but New York has a social democratic tradition, and they wove a safety net.
Banks must submit to months of mediation before foreclosing, and lawyers must attest that the bank can prove ownership. Judges here show waning patience for the three-card monte act of some banks.
Just a few weeks ago, the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court took the unusual step of ruling that Bank of America could not foreclose on an Orange County home of a New York City police officer. The judges upheld a lower court ruling that the bank's ''conduct was nothing short of appalling.''
Still, the fevers rage on.
On Friday, I stepped off the elevator in State Supreme Court in Queens. Shafts of sun poured across the marble floor, as dozens of men and women sat in shadow, awaiting mediation.
A computer list is taped to the wooden door frame. Every foreclosure case has been adjourned 4, 5, 10 times. More homeowners hold tight to their homes than a few years ago, but the cost is weeks of missed work and legal bills piled high.
Freeman N. Hawes Sr. walks into the mediation room. He's a husky, cheerful black man, from Rosedale. The bank agent nods pleasantly. She thinks the bank might grant him a mortgage modification. But she can't get the bank on the phone just now.
Perhaps next time?
The mediator sets a new date. Mr. Hawes walks to a bench and, from a brown plastic bag, pulls dog-eared letters from Nationstar Mortgage. Nationstar, the letters show, agreed that he had made his payments and promised to modify his mortgage in 2010, and again in July 2011. It broke both promises.
He has lived in Rosedale, a black middle-class neighborhood, for decades. He's edging toward 70 and holds two jobs with no plans of retiring.
''I'm not one to hold grudges,'' he says. ''The Lord says I can live 125 years, so I'll keep paying the bank. But why can't I get to the finale?''
That's a question that haunts thousands of homeowners.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2012

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Gotham column on Tuesday, about the burdens of the housing crisis in a Queens neighborhood, described incorrectly the number of mortgages in default or delinquent last year, according to the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project. While there were indeed 345,000 such mortgages, they were for homes throughout New York State, not just in New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); GOVERNORS (57%); EMPLOYMENT (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GUYANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



264 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: A Chinese Civil War to Dwarf All Others

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
AUTUMN IN THE HEAVENLY KINGDOM
China, the West, and the Epic Story of the Taiping Civil War
By Stephen R. Platt
Illustrated. 470 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.
There should be a term in German that describes the sinking feeling you have when reading a serious book of scholarship, one whose determined author deserves praise and tenure, that no civilian reader should pick up, that will not warm in your hands, that will make you regret the 10 hours of your life lost to it, and that, once put down, will not cry out to be picked back up.
Such a book is ''Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom: China, the West, and the Epic Story of the Taiping Civil War,'' by Stephen R. Platt, a young academic who has a Ph.D. in Chinese history from Yale and is an associate professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. He's written a dense, complex work, about a war too little known in the United States, in which the narrative pilot light never ignites. 
This Chinese civil war lasted from 1851 to 1864, overlapping in its end with America's Civil War. Mr. Platt describes it as ''not only the most destructive war of the 19th century, but likely the bloodiest civil war of all time.''
Some 20 million people lost their lives, many of them in grotesque ways. There are enough beheadings, flayings, rapes, suicides, disembowelments, mass killings and acts of cannibalism in ''Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom'' -- more about these things in a moment -- that it can seem like a version of Sun Tzu's ''Art of War'' spat into being by Cormac McCarthy.
On one side of this war was the decaying 200-year-old Qing dynasty of the Manchus. On the other side, the Taiping rebels, fueled by their messianic religious ideology that contained a whiff of Christianity, who wanted to reclaim China from the small alien Manchu elite. Mr. Platt doesn't linger overly long on the parallels between this civil war and America's, but it is among his central points that Britain's disastrous intervention, for trade reasons, on the side of the dynasty in this Chinese war prevented it from becoming involved in ours.
The author approaches his subject from many angles. There are strong portraits of political and military leaders, though these figures can later blur in the mind. A four-page dramatis personae is printed in the front, and it must be frequently consulted, as when distinguishing Zeng Guofan, a legendary general on the dynasty's side, from his brothers Zeng Guoquan, Zeng Guohua and Zeng Guobao.
The bulk of the narrative consists of battle after battle, and these also can blur. This was a grueling war; grueling too are descriptions of its many skirmishes. Reading about these battles is often like watching a football game in which no passes are thrown and every play is a run up the middle for two terrible yards.
Mr. Platt does several things quite well. His book is eloquent on racial issues, about how the British saw the Chinese as a profoundly inferior race. The Chinese, for their part, the author writes, had ''an almost mystical belief in the superior weapons and skills of foreign soldiers,'' a belief that was slowly shredded as this war moved forward.
The racism cut both ways. Zeng Guofan, the general and a Confucian scholar, thought the Britons were ''uncivilized and unruly, and they didn't understand the Confucian concepts of loyalty and trust,'' Mr. Platt writes. ''They were ignorant of the classics that would make a man a gentleman.''
He is alert to moments of stark poetry and gives them a gentle push. Thus we get, in the aftermath of one battle in Zeng Guofan's own Hunan Province, a description of how ''the rice-terraced hills of Zeng's childhood rang with the cries of his grieving neighbors, who everywhere shouted from their rooftops, calling to the faraway ghosts of their dead sons and begging them to come home.''
At bottom what he has written is an atrocity exhibition. There seems to be a My Lai-style massacre every 35 pages, so often that Mr. Platt can be almost deadpan about them. He writes: ''All told, about 16,000 people are thought to have survived the siege of Anqing, most if not all of them civilians. The reports of what happened to them afterward differ primarily as to whether or not Zeng Guofan's officers first separated out the women before they killed everyone who was left.''
This book's dark images can stick in the mind. At one point the Manchus set up suicide stations for Taiping supporters. These are described as ''pavilions with tools for killing oneself (daggers, ropes), emblazoned with placards calling for supporters of the insurrection to choose a quick self-imposed death over the eventual capture and dismemberment that would bring greater shame to their families.''
The acts of barbarism, committed by both sides, pile up and up. Mr. Platt quotes reports of ''those who would cut open the stomach and drink the blood,'' as well as ''dig out the heart and eat it.'' He is correct to describe a rebel army that ''fanned through the undefended countryside like a nightmare.'' The dynasty would ultimately win this war and hang on to power for another five decades, until 1911, when it fell to a Chinese nationalist revolution.
Mr. Platt's book is lighted, mostly at beginning and end, by ideas. He meditates on ''just how fine the line is that separates humanitarian intervention from imperialism.'' He persuasively argues that China was a far larger player in the global economy than most have recognized. I'd have read more from him in this mode. It is this book's very long middle that bogs down into the grinding literary equivalent of trench warfare.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 13, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Books of The Times review on Tuesday, about ''Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom: China, the West, and the Epic Story of the Taiping Civil War,'' by Stephen R. Platt, misquoted part of a passage from the book. The passage mentioned Zeng Guofan, a general on the side of the Qing dynasty, not ''General Guofan.'' Guofan was Zeng's given name.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL LIONSTAR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); SUICIDE (64%); RELIGION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



265 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Markets Edge Down After 5-Week Rally

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks closed slightly lower on Monday as lingering questions about Europe's debt crisis and corporate earnings overshadowed growing optimism about economic growth after a five-week rally.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen about 7 percent this year, helped by better-than-expected United States economic data, which was capped by Friday's solid jobs report.
The magnitude and swiftness of the gains, however, have kept some investors on the sidelines. The S.& P. is at levels not seen since July, and continuing worries about Europe and corporate results have some wondering if the market has room to rally. 
Through Monday morning, 60 percent of the 290 companies in the S.& P. 500 that had reported quarterly results so far posted profits that topped expectations, tracking below recent quarters at this point of the earnings season.
''Companies aren't surprising on the upside like they have in previous quarters, which could mean slow going for stocks for a while,'' said Tommy Huie, president and chief investment officer at BMO Asset Management in Milwaukee. ''That said, I can see us near 1,400 on the S.& P. by summer if we get decent news out of Europe.''
Another deadline lapsed in Athens as political leaders failed to respond to bailout terms from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. Greece needs the funds by March to meet big debt repayments and avoid a messy default.
The Dow Jones industrial average was down 17.10 points, or 0.13 percent, at 12,845.13. The S.& P. 500 was down 0.57 points, or 0.04 percent, at 1,344.33. The Nasdaq composite index was down 3.67 points, or 0.13 percent, at 2,901.99.
''It's not surprising for the market to catch its breath after the very strong start to the year that we've seen, especially as there are still a lot of concerns about what will happen in Europe,'' said Bernard Schoenfeld, senior investment strategist at BNY Mellon Wealth Management in New York.
The toymaker Hasbro rose 2.2 percent to $36.66 after reporting a fourth-quarter profit just above analysts' lowered expectations.
Humana posted a big rise in fourth-quarter profit, but revenue came in below Wall Street's projections, sending shares down 5.4 percent to $85.21. The Morgan Stanley health care payer index lost 1.4 percent.
Technical analysts at Instinet in New York said a host of metrics, such as an upturn in the S.& P. 500's moving averages and a strong move up in January, boded well for equity prices in the medium term.
Fidelity National Financial, a title insurer, agreed to buy a casual dining chain, O'Charley's, for $9.85 a share, valuing the company at $221 million. Fidelity already owned a 9.5 percent stake. Shares of O'Charley's surged 41.8 percent to $9.81.
Semiconductor stocks lost ground, dragged down by Micron Technology, whose chief executive died on Friday in the crash of a small plane he was piloting. Micron shares fell 2.8 percent to $7.73 while the PHLX semiconductor index dropped 1.4 percent.
The uncertainty over Greece's situation encouraged buying in United States Treasury investments and interest rates eased. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 6/32, to 100 28/32, and the yield fell to 1.90 percent from 1.92 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (66%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (60%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (60%); TITLE INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); BMO ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (51%); FNF (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



266 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Obama Imposes Freeze On Iran Property in U.S.

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and RICK GLADSTONE; Jackie Calmes reported from Washington, and Rick Gladstone from New York. Mark Landler contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House moved to enforce tightened sanctions against Iran on Monday because of the country's suspect nuclear program, freezing all property of the Central Bank of Iran, other Iranian financial institutions and the Iranian government in the United States.
The new restrictions also raised new warnings to financial institutions in other nations that they could face big penalties in the United States if they did business with Iran's central bank. 
The actions were announced in an executive order signed by President Obama that started the enforcement process for a tough measure he signed into law at the end of 2011. If fully carried out, that measure could isolate Iran's central bank and effectively choke off the sale of Iranian oil by obstructing the means of payment. Most of the revenue for oil sales by Iran, one of the world's biggest oil exporters, is processed by its central bank.
Tensions have been rising between Iran and the West over Tehran's nuclear energy program, which Iran says is peaceful and Western nations say is a cover for efforts to achieve the ability to make a nuclear weapon.
Israeli leaders, who see Iran as their most serious security threat, have hinted they may order a pre-emptive military strike on suspected nuclear targets in Iran if they conclude the sanctions are ineffective. Mr. Obama and his aides have sought to restrain Israel, stressing in recent days that sanctions and diplomatic pressure are the preferred strategy for dissuading Iran.
''There has been a steady increase in our sanctions activity, and this is part of that escalation,'' Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, said after the latest steps were announced.
Last week an inspection team from the International Atomic Energy Agency left Iran after the government refused to allow it to scrutinize elements of the nuclear program that the agency had said could be military in nature. Although the team is returning to Iran this month, Western diplomats have concluded that Iran appears intent on stonewalling.
In a statement, the White House said the executive order ''re-emphasizes this administration's message to the government of Iran -- it will face ever-increasing economic and diplomatic pressure until it addresses the international community's well-founded and well-documented concerns regarding the nature of its nuclear program.''
The timing, a Treasury Department official said, was driven by the need for the administration to lay the groundwork to effectively enforce the new sanctions law, in part by reaching out to allies and other countries to explain how the sanctions will work. Many of these countries buy oil from Iran through its central bank, and their financial institutions could be blocked from the American market if they continue to do so.
The administration has been trying to persuade Iran's oil customers to shift to other suppliers, and countries like Saudi Arabia have promised to raise production to compensate for any shortages. But some of Iran's biggest customers, notably China and India, have signaled their intention to keep buying Iranian oil.
The penalties against Iran's central bank, and potentially the banks of other nations that do business with it, were unanimously passed by the Senate and attached to an annual defense bill over the administration's objections. Mr. Obama agreed to the penalties after the White House negotiated language that would give him latitude to waive them for foreign financial institutions.
Documents accompanying the executive order said foreign financial institutions risked American sanctions ''if they engage in certain significant financial transactions'' with Iran's central bank rather than ''arms-length'' transactions.
In a statement, the Treasury Department said the executive order ''blocks all property and interests in property of the government of Iran, the Central Bank of Iran and all Iranian financial institutions (regardless of whether the financial institution is part of the government of Iran) that are in the United States, that come within the United States or that come within the possession or control of U.S. persons.'' The statement did not further specify the exact properties that apply.
The Senate has proposed additional sanctions that could cripple Iran's financial system by severing Iranian banks' access to a global communications system that virtually all banks use to transmit data. A full vote has not yet been taken on that measure.
Advocates of stiff sanctions on Iran welcomed the administration's announcement on Monday.
''Sanctions against Iran's central bank, if properly implemented and enforced, will severely isolate the Iranian regime from world markets and limit the capital it has to pursue nuclear weapons and fund terrorism,'' said Mark D. Wallace, president of United Against Nuclear Iran, a group in New York.
Iran's government has denounced the sanctions as an effort to bully Iranians into surrendering their legal right to pursue nuclear energy peacefully. It has threatened to retaliate by closing the Strait of Hormuz, a vital oil route, and by cutting off European buyers of Iran's oil before a planned European Union embargo of Iran's oil to start on July 1.
Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency said people at an organized rally against the sanctions in Tehran on Monday chanted ''Death to America'' and ''Death to the Zionist regime'' and urged Parliament to halt oil exports to European countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



267 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Flood the Zone

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Every once in a while, the Obama administration will promulgate a policy that is truly demoralizing. A willingness to end the District of Columbia school voucher program was one such case. The decision to force Catholic social service providers to support contraception and other practices that violate their creed is another.
These decisions are demoralizing because they make it harder to conduct a serious antipoverty policy. 
The essential truth about poverty is that we will never fully understand what causes it. There are a million factors that contribute to poverty, and they interact in a zillion ways.
Some of the factors are economic: the shortage of low-skill, entry-level jobs. Some of the factors are historical: the legacy of racism. Some of the factors are familial: the breakdown in early attachments between infants and caregivers and the cognitive problems that often result from that. Some of them are social: the shortage of healthy role models and mentors.
The list of factors that contribute to poverty could go on and on, and the interactions between them are infinite. Therefore, there is no single magic lever to pull to significantly reduce poverty. The only thing to do is change the whole ecosystem.
If poverty is a complex system of negative feedback loops, then you have to create an equally complex and diverse set of positive feedback loops. You have to flood the zone with as many good programs as you can find and fund and hope that somehow they will interact and reinforce each other community by community, neighborhood by neighborhood.
The key to this flood-the-zone approach is that you have to allow for maximum possible diversity. Let's say there is a 14-year-old girl who, for perfectly understandable reasons, wants to experience the love and sense of purpose that go with motherhood, rather than stay in school in the hopes of someday earning a middle-class wage.
You have no idea what factors have caused her to make this decision, and you have no way of knowing what will dissuade her. But you want her, from morning until night, to be enveloped by a thick ecosystem of positive influences. You want lefty social justice groups, righty evangelical groups, Muslim groups, sports clubs, government social workers, Boys and Girls Clubs and a hundred other diverse institutions. If you surround her with a different culture and a web of relationships, maybe she will absorb new habits of thought, find a sense of belonging and change her path.
To build this thick ecosystem, you have to include religious institutions and you have to give them broad leeway. Religious faith is quirky, and doesn't always conform to contemporary norms. But faith motivates people to serve. Faith turns lives around. You want to do everything possible to give these faithful servants room and support so they can improve the spiritual, economic and social ecology in poor neighborhoods.
The administration's policies on school vouchers and religious service providers are demoralizing because they weaken this ecology by reducing its diversity. By ending vouchers, the administration reduced the social intercourse between neighborhoods. By coercing the religious charities, it is teaching the faithful to distrust government, to segregate themselves from bureaucratic overreach, to pull inward.
Members of the Obama administration aren't forcing religious organizations to violate their creeds because they are secular fundamentalists who place no value on religious liberty. They are doing it because they operate in a technocracy.
Technocrats are in the business of promulgating rules. They seek abstract principles that they can apply in all cases. From their perspective, a rule is fair when it can be imposed uniformly across the nation.
Technocratic organizations take diverse institutions and make them more alike by imposing the same rules. Technocracies do not defer to local knowledge. They dislike individual discretion. They like consistency, codification and uniformity.
Technocratic institutions have an unstated theory of how change happens. It's the theory President Obama sketched out at the beginning and end of his State of the Union address: Society works best when it is like a military unit -- when everybody works together in pursuit of a mission, pulling together as one.
But a realistic antipoverty program works in the opposite way. It's not like a military unit. It's like a rain forest, with a complex array of organisms pursuing diverse missions in diverse ways while intertwining and adapting to each other.
I wish President Obama would escape from the technocratic rationalism that sometimes infects his administration. I wish he'd go back to his community-organizer roots. When he was driving around Chicago mobilizing priests and pastors on those cold nights, would he really have compelled them to do things that violated their sacred vows?
I don't think so. I think if that Barack Obama possessed the power he has today, he'd want to flood the zone with as much rich diversity as possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (70%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



268 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Poisoned Politics of Keystone XL

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
On Monday, Stephen Harper, the prime minister of Canada, traveled to China for a week of high-level meetings. He brought with him a handful of his cabinet ministers, including Joe Oliver, his tough-talking minister of natural resources who, until recently, had been withering in his scorn for the opponents of the Keystone XL oil pipeline, which President Obama rejected a few weeks ago. The pipeline, of course, was intended to transport vast oil reserves in Alberta to the American refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.
Oliver no longer talks so freely about the environmental critics of the Keystone pipeline; all of Harper's ministers have been instructed to stop making comments that might be construed as interfering in the American presidential election. But there are other, more diplomatic, ways to send messages. Like going to China with your cabinet members and cutting energy deals with a country that has, as The Globe and Mail in Toronto put it recently, a ''thirst for Canadian oil.'' Oil, I might add, that may be a little dirtier than the crude that pours forth from the Saudi Arabian desert -- that is one of the main reasons environmentalists say they oppose Keystone -- but is hardly the environmental disaster many suppose. 
I realize that President Obama rejected Keystone because, politically, he had no choice. My guess is that, in his centrist heart of hearts, the president wanted to approve it. But to give the go-ahead before the election was to risk losing the support of the environmentalists who make up an important part of his base.
I also understand that the Republican decision to force Obama's hand was a political stunt, allowing them to denounce his decision during the campaign. As Jennifer Steinhauer put it in The Times recently, ''Republicans are framing Keystone as an urgent jobs and energy project at a time of high unemployment and creeping gasoline prices.''
Surely, though, what the Keystone decision really represents is the way our poisoned politics damages the country. Environmental concerns notwithstanding, America will be using oil -- and lots of it -- for the foreseeable future. It is the fundamental means by which we transport ourselves, whether by air, car or truck. Where do we get that oil? Mostly from countries that don't like us, like Venezuela, which has the world's second-largest oil reserves.
And here is Canada, a staunch American ally that has historically sold us virtually all of its crude exports. Over the past two decades, energy companies have invested tens of billions of dollars in the tar sands, so much so that Canada now ranks No. 3 in estimated oil reserves. Along with the natural gas that can now be extracted thanks to hydraulic fracturing -- which, of course, all right-thinking environmentalists also oppose -- the oil from the Canadian tar sands ought to be viewed as a great gift that has been handed to North America. These two relatively new sources of fossil fuels offer America its first real chance in decades to become, if not energy self-sufficient, at least energy secure, no longer beholden to OPEC. Yet these gifts have been transformed, like everything else, into political footballs.
In Canada, the Keystone XL controversy has created a surprising new resolve. ''Keystone was a transformative turning point in terms of how Harper sees the bilateral relationship,'' says Fen Hampson, a professor of international affairs at Carleton University in Ottawa. Instead of blithely assuming the United States would purchase its oil, Canada is now determined to find diverse buyers so it won't be held hostage by American politics. Hence, the newfound willingness to do business with China. Canada has concluded that it simply can't expect much from the United States, even on an issue that would seem to be vital to our own interests.
As it turns out, the environmental movement doesn't just want to shut down Keystone. Its real goal, as I discovered when I spoke recently to Michael Brune, the executive director of the Sierra Club, is much bigger. ''The effort to stop Keystone is part of a broader effort to stop the expansion of the tar sands,'' Brune said. ''It is based on choking off the ability to find markets for tar sands oil.''
This is a ludicrous goal. If it were to succeed, it would be deeply damaging to the national interest of both Canada and the United States. But it has no chance of succeeding. Energy is the single most important industry in Canada. Three-quarters of the Canadian public agree with the Harper government's diversification strategy. China's ''thirst'' for oil is hardly going to be deterred by the Sierra Club. And the Harper government views the continued development of the tar sands as a national strategic priority.
Thus, at least one country in North America understands where its national interests lie. Too bad it's not us.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); OIL SANDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (76%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); RANKINGS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); APPROVALS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (61%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (88%); BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



269 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Republicans See Politics In Chrysler Super Bowl Ad

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and JIM RUTENBERG; Brooks Barnes, Jackie Calmes and Stuart Elliott contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The most talked-about advertisement of the Super Bowl did not have a barely clothed supermodel, a cute puppy or a smart-aleck baby. It was a cinematic two-minute commercial featuring Clint Eastwood, an icon of American brawn, likening Chrysler's comeback to the country's own economic revival.
And within 12 hours of running, it became one of the loudest flashpoints yet in the early re-election campaign of President Obama, providing a reminder, as if one were needed, that in today's polarized political climate even a tradition as routine as a football championship can be thrust into a partisan light.
Some conservative critics saw the ad as political payback and accused the automaker of handing the president a prime-time megaphone in front of one of the largest television audiences of the year. 
Karl Rove, the Republican strategist who served as President George W. Bush's top political adviser, said Chrysler was trying to settle a debt to the Obama administration for rescuing Detroit carmakers with billions of dollars in loans.
''The leadership of auto companies feel they need to do something to repay their political patronage,'' Mr. Rove said on Fox News, where viewers of the network's morning program ''Fox & Friends'' rated the ad their least favorite of the game. ''It is a sign of what happens when you have Chicago-style politics, and the president of the United States and his political minions are, in essence, using our tax dollars to buy corporate advertising.''
David Axelrod, President Obama's chief political strategist, seized on the commercial almost immediately. He sent out a Twitter message shortly after it ran, declaring, ''Powerful spot.'' And, as if to underscore the Obama campaign's lack of involvement in it, ''Did Clint shoot that, or just narrate it?''
The White House cast the ad, which was accompanied by similar full-page newspaper advertisements on Monday, as an affirmation of the president's economic policies. Asked by a joking reporter whether the commercial counted as an ''in-kind contribution'' from Mr. Eastwood, Jay Carney, Mr. Obama's press secretary, said it merely laid out the facts, and indeed the ad resembled a main theme of the president's State of the Union address last month.
''This president,'' Mr. Carney said, ''made decisions that were not very popular at the time that were guided by two important principles: one, that he should do what he could to ensure that one million jobs would not be lost; and two, that the American automobile industry should be able to thrive globally, if the right conditions were created.''
The ad's title, ''It's Halftime in America,'' along with its uplifting and inspirational script, recalled one of the most famous campaign ads ever produced, President Ronald Reagan's re-election year ''Morning in America'' ad of 1984 -- albeit with a post-recession twist.
Mr. Eastwood, who narrates the new ad and appears among images of molten steel and city streets, says: ''How do we come from behind? How do we come together? And how do we win?'' He concludes, looking straight into the camera: ''This country can't be knocked out with one punch. We get right back up again, and when we do, the world's going to hear the roar of our engines.''
In an e-mail, Mr. Eastwood said politics were not in the equation. ''The ad doesn't have a political message,'' he said. ''It is about American spirit, pride and job growth.'' Mr. Eastwood, a former mayor of Carmel-by-the-Sea, Calif., who usually voted Republican, has acknowledged recently having a political change of heart.
Chrysler similarly denied that politics were at play. But that ignored the fact that as a major beneficiary of a government loan program derided by many conservatives, whatever it does over the course of the next nine months will be scrutinized in a political light. Based on rates NBC was quoting advertisers, the two-minute spot cost Chrysler about $12.8 million.
Shown before an audience of more than 110 million people, according to Nielsen, the advertisement came at a fortunate time for Mr. Obama's re-election team. It dovetailed with a positive jobs report on Friday and the rolling start of a general election campaign that it assumes will be run against Mitt Romney. (Mr. Romney opposed the auto bailout, as did Mr. Eastwood in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in November.)
But the conservative outcry over the spot brought to the foreground the tricky politics of the auto industry rescue, which has cut both ways for the Obama administration. In the late summer, Ford showed a documentary-style commercial in which a customer asserted that he was not going to buy a ''car that was bailed out by our government.'' Ford was solvent enough that it did not need the loans given to Chrysler and General Motors.
Ford pulled the commercial, but said it did so only in the normal course of its advertising rotation.
Other ads have proved just as problematic for the president's message that economic resurgence is around the corner, if not already under way. An Audi commercial painted a picture of the United States as a Depression-era wasteland where ''over 100,000 miles of highways and bridges are in disrepair''; shattered televisions littered the streets, and rusty pickup trucks left trails of used tires as they dragged their way, apparently, to the junkyard.
In a recent commercial for Sears, a young couple and their real estate agent were shown touring what was clearly a foreclosed house in need of new appliances -- apparently because the originals had been stripped.
Though Chrysler says it was not seeking political gain with the ad, it was certainly attuned to the sensitivities. In one scene that used footage from protests outside the Wisconsin State Capitol, signs bearing pro-union messages were edited out.
Officials speaking on behalf of Chrysler and Mr. Eastwood said he is donating to charity whatever money would have gone to him for filming the ad.
Democrats also dismissed the notion that the ad amounted to political payback. Steve Rattner, a former adviser to Mr. Obama on the auto bailout, called that idea a ''conspiracy theory.'' Referring to Sergio Marchionne, Chrysler's chief executive, Mr. Rattner said, ''He doesn't need anything from the government at this point.''
Even some Republican advertising strategists said they failed to make the political connection to Mr. Obama.
''To the extent that anything that sounds good about the economy might also sound good for the president is an outcome,'' said Steve Grand, who creates ads for Republican candidates and political groups. ''But I don't think that was the intention.''
Mark McKinnon, Mr. Bush's former advertising strategist, noted that the ad's message was ambiguous enough that it could be construed as helping Mr. Romney. ''It's half time in America,'' he said. ''And we are way behind, and we need a new quarterback.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clint Eastwood narrates a commercial that wraps up with him saying, ''This country can't be knocked out with one punch.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRYSLER GROUP LLC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); KARL ROVE (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); DAVID AXELROD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



270 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Killing in Syria

 BODY:
Two days after Russia and China vetoed a United Nations Security Council resolution calling for a peaceful transfer of power in Syria, President Bashar al-Assad continued his killing spree. 
On Monday, government forces using tanks and machine guns shelled a makeshift medical clinic and residential areas in Homs, a major center of protests. Since Friday, an estimated 240 people have been killed in perhaps the bloodiest episode in the 11-month-old uprising. Moscow and Beijing now have the blood of Syria's valiant people on their hands as well.
Both argued that the resolution, endorsing an Arab League initiative, would expand the conflict. That is nonsense. The real explanation is that these two authoritarian governments fear any popular movement and, after the ouster of Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, are determined to deny the West another perceived victory.
While the resolution failed, the support at the Council was strong: 13 nations -- including India and South Africa, which had abstained on an earlier vote in October -- voted in favor. It is a sign of Syria's increasing isolation and the repugnance that all responsible governments should feel toward Mr. Assad's murderous ways.
If Russia and China are determined to obstruct the Security Council, the United States is right to look for a way to press for new sanctions and greater isolation of Syria. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has proposed a ''friends of democratic Syria'' group to support the opposition and work for a democratic political transition.
Mr. Assad has made clear that there is no compromise or deal to be had. But he is not immune to pressure. The ''friends'' group should use all the diplomatic and economic levers they can muster to encourage his ouster. That includes strictly adopting and implementing sanctions on Syria like those imposed by the European Union, the United States and the Arab League.
Washington on Monday withdrew its ambassador from Damascus, and other countries should do the same. In time, the business and military elite will come to realize that sticking by the Assad government is a losing proposition. There is growing talk in Washington and elsewhere of arming the Free Syrian Army, a coalition of military defectors and opposition members. It is understandable that many Syrians want to fight back against the brutal regime, which is believed to have already killed as many as 6,000 people since pro-democracy protests began. But we fear that that will make things worse.
An all-out civil war would be even more damaging to civilians -- Assad's army has 200,000 troops -- and increase the chances that the fight will spill over into the broader region or become a proxy war.
Russia unconscionably refuses to halt its arms sales to the Assad government. The United States and its allies should publicly expose every shipment. Russians are growing tired of Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and frequent public reminders of his responsibility for the killings in Syria will only further tarnish his image.
On Tuesday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, is supposed to visit Damascus. The message he should be carrying is clear: It is time for Mr. Assad to go. If Russia chooses, instead, to enable more killing, it will find itself increasingly isolated. The world is watching, finally.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); VETO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) SYRIA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



271 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: House and Senate at Impasse on Medicare Payments

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House and Senate negotiators are deadlocked over how to prevent a deep cut in Medicare payments to doctors who treat millions of Medicare beneficiaries, an impasse that could threaten broader legislation on a payroll tax cut.
Lawmakers in both parties said they wanted to give doctors a small increase, but could not agree on how to cover the cost. The issue, which is being negotiated as part of the talks over maintaining a reduction in payroll taxes for 160 million Americans, pits health care providers against one another -- doctors versus hospitals -- in a type of conflict that is most likely to become more common as the federal government tries to throttle back the growth of Medicare costs. The payroll legislation would also continue jobless benefits for many of the nation's unemployed.
In the absence of agreement, doctors' fees will be cut 27 percent next month, and many doctors say they could not continue treating Medicare patients under the lower payments. 
''Because of this uncertainty, some doctors are already telling patients they will no longer be able to accept Medicare,'' said Representative Allyson Y. Schwartz, Democrat of Pennsylvania. Ms. Schwartz is one of 20 lawmakers trying to work out differences between the House and the Senate.
To help offset the cost of paying doctors, House Republicans want to reduce certain Medicare payments to hospitals. By contrast, Democrats and at least one powerful Republican senator, Jon Kyl of Arizona, want to cover the cost with money saved by winding down the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
An influential federal advisory panel has voted to recommend cutting Medicare payments to hospitals for some of the most common outpatient services, and House Republicans cite that recommendation to justify their plan.
The panel, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, says the government should pay the same rates for ''evaluation and management'' services regardless of whether they are performed in doctors' offices or hospital outpatient departments. Rates for hospital clinics are now much higher -- for example, $124 compared with $69 for an office visit involving a medium level of services to an established patient, the commission said.
Hospitals say the higher payments are justified because they treat sicker patients and have much higher overhead costs, resulting from the fact that they are open round the clock and stand ready to respond to medical emergencies.
Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said that if the cuts took effect, hospitals would curtail services and close some clinics.
''The cuts would reduce access to care for many of the nation's most vulnerable patients and destroy our ability to invest in outpatient care, which everybody from the White House to the statehouse says we need to do to keep people healthy,'' Mr. Raske said.
The American Medical Association and other doctor groups are making an all-out push for Congress to scrap the formula used to calculate their payments.
The formula sets annual goals for Medicare spending on doctors' services. When actual spending exceeds the goals, payments are supposed to be reduced. If Congress intervenes to block a cut -- as it often does -- Medicare is supposed to recoup the money by making deeper cuts in future years.
Dr. Peter W. Carmel, president of the medical association, said: ''There have been 13 short-term patches passed by Congress. These patches increase both the long-term cost to taxpayers and the severity of scheduled cuts to physicians who care for Medicare patients.''
Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and a member of the conference committee, said ''it makes a lot of sense to use war savings as a primary source of money'' to eliminate the Medicare payment formula.
''It was Congress's mistake to set up that formula,'' Mr. Waxman said. ''We should not make Medicare beneficiaries and physicians pay for our mistake.''
Mr. Kyl said it was logical to use war savings to wipe out the debt that Congress had built up by repeatedly overriding reductions in payments to doctors.
''What I'm proposing is using one budgetary gimmick to pay for another -- specifically, using funds budgeted for the wars and wiping clean the bad debt accumulated'' under the Medicare formula, Mr. Kyl said.
Aides to Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, said he saw that approach as ''a viable way'' to make sure older Americans could continue visiting their doctors.
But Representative Dave Camp, Republican of Michigan and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said the purpose of the House-Senate conference committee was to resolve differences between the House and the Senate. The use of war savings to pay for Medicare is ''outside the scope'' of the committee because it was not in the legislation passed by either house, he said.
House Republican negotiators prefer the savings in the House-passed bill, which calls for ''parity in Medicare payments'' in doctors' office and outpatient hospital clinics.
Cori E. Uccello, a member of the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, said, ''It just does not make sense to pay a lot more for pretty much the same service in the hospital setting.''
Hospitals around the country are buying up physician practices, and in many cases Medicare then pays the doctors at the higher rates allowed for outpatient hospital services.
Glenn M. Hackbarth, chairman of the Medicare commission, said that this shift could --under current law -- increase costs for the Medicare program and for beneficiaries, who would have higher premiums and co-payments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Allyson Y. Schwartz
 Representative Dave Camp opposes paying for Medicare increases with money not spent on war. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%)

PERSON: ALLYSON Y SCHWARTZ (88%); JON KYL (58%); DAVE CAMP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



272 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
PRIME MINISTER OF ROMANIA
RESIGNS AMID PROTESTS
Romania's prime minister, Emil Boc, resigned, the latest European leader to fall victim to a mood of public outrage over austerity measures and stagnant growth. The president, Traian Basescu, announced that he was nominating Mihai Razvan Ungureanu, a former foreign minister who now leads Romania's foreign-intelligence service, as the prime minister's successor. Page A4
LEANING TOWER'S CONTENDERS 
While repairs to the Pisa tower have assured that it will survive to delight future generations of tourists, they have also ended its status as the most leaning tower, moving it to somewhere in the middle of the pack and touching off a competition for the crown. Page A5
BENEFIT FOR SOUTH KOREA
A South Korean software magnate and university dean whose presidential ambitions are among the biggest unknowns in this election year said that he would start a charity to help tackle widening social and economic inequality, a major grievance in the country. Page A8
MENDING TIES WITH PAKISTAN
A senior American military commander is expected to travel to Pakistan this month in what Obama administration officials say is the first step toward thawing a strategic relationship that has been essentially frozen for more than two months. Page A8
ANGER OVER SYRIA STALEMATE
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France pledged not to allow Russia and China to block international action to stop the bloodshed in Syria, and they promised to help the Syrian people. Page A12
CANDIDATE MAKES HISTORY
The historic choice of a woman as its presidential candidate may turn out to be a shrewd move for the party of Mexico's incumbent president, political analysts said, allowing it to capitalize on the growing power of women in politics and offering a fresh approach for a party that has been mired in a bloody drug war. Page A12
National
CHILDREN KEPT AT HOME
AFTER ARRESTS OF TEACHERS
Parents of students at an elementary school in Los Angeles where two teachers were arrested on child abuse charges marched outside the school and refused to allow their children to attend classes, protesting what they said was the failure of school officials to act against the violation and explain the extent of the abuse. Page A13
ROMNEY SHIFTS ATTACK PLAN
Even as Mitt Romney tries to fend off the continuing challenge from Newt Gingrich and focus his attention on President Obama, he is now being forced to deal with another rival. With Rick Santorum poised to do well in the Minnesota caucuses, the Romney campaign issued statements attacking him on spending. Page A17
New York
BILL IN ALBANY WOULD ALLOW
WORSHIP SERVICES IN SCHOOLS
The State Senate passed a bill that would allow churches to continue holding worship services in public schools, but the future of the legislation remained in question as the Assembly speaker expressed skepticism about it. Page A25
OFFICER PLEADS GUILTY
A New York City police officer who prosecutors called the leader of a group of officers who accepted thousands of dollars in cash in return for illegally transporting firearms into the state pleaded guilty on in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Page A28
Obituaries
MARK DEGRUY, 60
He was an Emmy Award-winning documentary filmmaker and marine biologist, who through the lens of his submersible cameras transported viewers to the deepest parts of the oceans and face to face with swirling, pulsing sea creatures. Page B15
GIANPIERO MORETTI, 71
Mr. Moretti designed a sleek, easy-to-grasp steering wheel that has improved the performance of championship racecar drivers for more than half a century. Page B15
Business
BANKS RELUCTANT TO AID
COMPANIES IN NEED OF CASH
As profits and sales slip, some European businesses are scrambling to pay their bills. Because banks are reluctant to lend, the fear is that companies will not be able to borrow the cash they need and will be forced to take drastic action, further weighing on the economy. Page B1
NEW LIGHT ON CHAOS AT FIRM
MF Global first misused customer money on Oct. 26, five days before filing for bankruptcy, investigators said, shedding new light on the extent of purported wrongdoing at the brokerage firm and the chaos that prompted the breach. Page B4
CUTTING DOWN AIRLINE COSTS
As the airlines come up with ever more inventive fees, travelers are figuring out creative ways to avoid them. The fee for checked bags seems to vex passengers the most. To avoid it, some travelers stuff as many items as possible into a carry-on bag and then fight for space in the overhead bin. Page B7
CHINA REJECTS EMISSIONS FEE
The European Commission said that it would continue charging airlines for their greenhouse gas emissions, despite an announcement from China that its carriers would be forbidden to pay without its permission. Page B8
Sports
RARE TIGHTROPE ACT TAKES
CENTER STAGE AT HALFTIME
Andy Lewis makes his living performing an extreme and obscure form of tightrope-walking known as slacklining. He has appeared on Japanese game shows, MTV and the Italian version of Guinness World Records. But he and his sport had never appeared before an audience like the one commanded by Madonna at halftime of the Super Bowl. Page B12
Culture
WHERE COLONIALISM TINTS
A BATTLE TO CONQUER SOULS
Danai Gurira's ambitious new play, ''The Convert,'' about the arrival of colonialism in 1895 southern Africa, is having its premiere at the McCarter Theater Center in Princeton, N.J. Page C1
Science
G.E. ENDS BID TO CREATE
SUPPLY OF TECHNETIUM 99M
Continued obstacles plague the effort to provide a reliable supply of technetium 99m, a radioisotope crucial to identifying heart and kidney disease and assisting in breast cancer surgery. Page D2
FATIGUE SYNDROME FALLOUT
As the published evidence for the source of chronic fatigue syndrome fell apart, a legal melodrama erupted, dismaying and demoralizing patients and many members of the scientific community. Page D5
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A23
Frank Bruni PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); CHILDREN (85%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WOMEN (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (67%); CHILD ABUSE (67%); ARRESTS (66%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); RICK SANTORUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ROMANIA (95%); SYRIA (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



273 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: UBS Profit Falls on European Debt Crisis

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: The largest Swiss bank said fourth-quarter profit slumped as its wealth management unit failed to make up for a loss in investment banking. 

 BODY:
UBS, the largest Swiss bank, said on Tuesday that fourth-quarter profit had slumped 76 percent from the period a year earlier, as new money coming into its wealth management unit failed to make up for a loss in investment banking.
Quarterly net income fell to 393 million Swiss francs ($427 million) from 1.7 billion francs in the fourth quarter of 2010, the company said.
The investment banking unit had a loss of 256 million francs compared with a profit of 100 million francs in the fourth quarter of 2010. It is the second consecutive quarterly loss, and the bank said the beginning of 2012 was looking equally tough.
"Ongoing concerns surrounding euro zone sovereign debt, the European banking system and U.S. federal budget deficit issues" are likely to weigh on demand for the bank's services and especially trading volumes at the investment bank in the first quarter, UBS said in its quarterly report.
The bank said it cut its 2011 bonus pool for the investment bank by 60 percent from a year earlier.
UBS, however, said it expected to continue to attract client funds to its wealth management operations in the first quarter. Net new money there in the last three months of 2011 rose to 5 billion francs from 3.4 billion francs in the period a year earlier.
The bank, based in Zurich, also strengthened its capital position by increasing the so-called Basel 2.5 Tier 1 ratio to 16 percent from 13.2 percent.
Sergio P. Ermotti, who has run UBS since September, is pursuing a cost-cutting plan that would reduce investment banking and increase the focus on the more successful wealth management business. UBS created the plan to help it comply with stricter capital requirements for banks by the Swiss government and a drop in demand for investment banking services and products.
Mr. Ermotti said previously that completing the cost-cutting plan should give UBS an advantage over rivals that are facing the same market challenges but have yet to react to them. He said 2012 would be a year of transition.
[#x2028]
UBS was one of the banks hit hardest during the subprime mortgage crisis, and has since faced other difficulties. The bank's private banking operation in the United States was at the center of a legal dispute, and in September UBS uncovered a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized transactions at its London equity unit, prompting the departure of Mr. Ermotti's predecessor.
For the full year, UBS reported a profit of 4.2 billion francs, down from 7.5 billion francs in 2010.
An earlier version of this article misstated the amount of client funds UBS attracted in the first quarter. Net new money rose to 5 billion Swiss francs from 3.4 billion francs. It did not rise to 5 million francs from 3.4 million francs.

        
Chief Risk Officer Departs in UBS Shake-Up
        
UBS Names Sergio Ermotti as Chief Executive

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); PRIVATE BANKING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%) Sergio P. Ermotti; UBS; Banking and Financial Institutions; UBS A.G; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UBS A.G

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); ZURICH (79%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



274 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: The Eurozone, Seen from 6,000 Miles Away

BYLINE: BETTINA WASSENER


HIGHLIGHT: When the financial community in Hong Kong helped with an informal (and unusual) straw poll by Fitch Ratings, the consensus was that the Eurozone would neither break apart nor achieve a full fiscal and political union. Instead, the analysts expected a "muddling through." . 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Early morning briefings on sovereign credit outlooks can be soporific affairs, so Fitch Ratings conjured up a bit of audience participation on Tuesday to keep everybody awake: About 100 participants at the event were given nifty little remote-controlled voting devices and asked for their views on a range of topics.
The straw-polling gambit seemed to work: Nobody nodded off. It also served to give a glimpse of how the financial community in Hong Kong views the debt-crisis travails of Europe.
The Fitch people asked: What is the most likely scenario for the Eurozone? A breakup? Full fiscal and political union? Or "muddling through" to some form of hybrid position?
The consensus in the room was pretty clear: 79 percent of the journalists and analysts present thought - you guessed it - that "muddling through" is what we're likely to get. There is little faith here, it seems, in Europe's ability to draw a decisive line under its problems any time soon.
Similarly, the pundits here aren't betting on a rapid internationalization of the renminbi. Here was the Fitch query: Will the Chinese currency become a fully convertible currency in the next five years?
Nearly three-fourths said no. There are, after all, way too many things that still need to be done before that can happen, including, for starters, a full liberalization of the lumbering Chinese banking system.
What about the biggest risks to the global economy in 2012? Are they a) a double-dip recession in the United States; b) excessive fiscal consolidation in the world's major economies; c) an oil price shock (remember: turmoil in the Middle East!); or d) a hard landing in China?
Well, that was a tricky one, because neither the audience nor the panel of economists discussing the issue could entirely agree which of the above options stood out for its capacity to shock - meaning, of course, that all four registered as causes for concern.
There was a cute (and tricky) question at the end: Which of these four countries is likely to have the best credit rating five years from now - the United States, Britain, Germany or China?
The Asia-based voters at Tuesday's straw poll were not blind to the challenges facing China in the next half-decade (and beyond). A surprisingly small bloc (16 percent) thought China would have the best rating of the lot, while 34 percent picked the United States. Just 7 percent voted for Britain, which left 43 percent convinced that Germany will be rated best.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); EURO CRISIS (75%); BANKING IN CHINA (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (64%) European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Renminbi (Currency); United States Economy; Fitch Ratings; China; Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Hong Kong

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Fitch Ratings

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) China; Europe; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



275 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Who's Pulling the Strings in the Middle East? Little Qatar, Says Syria.

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: The tiny Persian Gulf emirate of Qatar is a state that boxes well above its weight. Hence Syria's paranoia about its alleged support for forces accused of seeking to overthrow the regime in Damascus - including the Qatari broadcaster Al Jazeera. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The Syrian regime is in no doubt about who sits at the center of a web of international conspiracy seeking to undermine it: the rulers of the tiny Persian Gulf state of Qatar.
Like the regime of Egypt's Hosni Mubarak and that of Muammar al-Qaddafi's Libya before it, Syria has singled out Qatar as an behind the unrest in its streets.
In a dispatch on Tuesday, the Syrian State news agency SANA claimed to have discovered a document showing Qatar was funding writers in Russia to fabricate news about Syria.
"That document comes to add to a collection of evidence and facts which stress that Qatar supports the armed terrorist groups in addition to its media war against Syria through al-Jazeera and other TV channels," SANA said.
There is some circumstantial motivation for Damascus's paranoia. Qatar last year sent its aircraft and special forces to Libya to assist rebel forces in the overthrow of the Qaddafi regime. It was the first Arab country to recognize Libya's rebel National Transitional Council.
And last month, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the Emir of Qatar, became the first Arab leader to propose military intervention to halt the killing in Syria.
The emirate certainly boxes well above its weight. Backed by oil and gas wealth that translates into annual per capita income of $110,000, the second highest in the world, Qatar has emerged since the 1990s as a central diplomatic player on the regional stage.
With a total population estimated at 1.7 million - the World Bank says that more than 80 percent are expatriates - the emirate now rates as the fifth biggest economy in the Middle East. It maintains a high international profile to remind the world - and, as importantly, its own powerful neighbors, Saudi Arabia and Iran - that it matters.
How has a state smaller than Connecticut, with an indigenous population that barely rivals Bakersfield, California, succeeded in instilling such fear and antipathy in the hearts of the Middle East's authoritarian rulers?
On the diplomatic front, it has succeeded in maintaining good contacts with states as diverse as Israel and Iran, and with political movements that include the Afghan Taliban and Lebanon's radical Hezbollah movement. 
In the past week, it brokered a unity deal between Fatah and Hamas, the rival Palestinian movements, and, as my colleague Alissa J. Rubin wrote from Kabul, it is said to be hosting meetings between U.S. and Taliban officials. 
Embattled Arab regimes have persistently accused the Qatari-owned Al Jazeera channel of exercising a malign influence in the region. They have denounced it as an extension of Qatari foreign policy in spite of assurances from the emirate that it exercises no influence over the broadcaster. 
Some regional analysts say the policy of Qatar's rulers has little to do with promoting radical change in the Middle East and everything to do with preventing the winds of change in the region blowing away conservative regimes such as their own. For that reason, it had favored seemingly more malleable Islamic groups over potentially more threatening democratic trends.
Hussein Ibish, Senior Research Fellow at the American Task Force on Palestine and a Washington-based Middle East analyst, told Rendezvous that Qatari policy was geared to preventing the new Arab liberationist narrative from spreading to the monarchies of the Persian Gulf and elsewhere.
"It also seeks to limit the influence of Iran and its allies; to promote Islamist alternatives in post-dictatorship Arab societies over liberal or, worse still, revolutionary ones; and to ensure that the regional order is not threatened at a core strategic level," Dr. Ibish said.
One Arab commentator, Samir Boutamdja, has described Qatar's Sheikh Hamad as a latter-day Renaissance Doge of Venice, a geographically tiny state that acted as a diplomatic intermediary between the Vatican and the Ottoman Sultan in order to avoid being swallowed by either of them. 
Despite its network of close diplomatic relationships, ties with Russia are less secure. Last November, in a week when Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, criticized Qatar's role in Libya, Russia's ambassador to Qatar protested that he had been assaulted by customs officials at Doha airport attempting to confiscate his diplomatic pouch and steal its secrets. Mr Lavrov responded by suspending diplomatic ties with Qatar.
This week, Khalid bin Mohamed al-Attiyah, Qatar's minister of state for foreign affairs, has described Russian and Chinese vetoes of a United Nations Security Council resolution on the Syria crisis as "a license to kill" for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

        
Russia's Reasons for Saying 'No' on Syria
        
What's Behind Iranian Abductions in Syria?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); TALIBAN (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); HAMAS (74%); AL FATAH (74%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); WRITERS (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (64%) qatar; russia; syria; Thani, Hamad bin Khalifa al-; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Al Jazeera; Security Council (UN); Middle East; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%) Al Jazeera; Security Council (UN)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (57%) Thani, Hamad bin Khalifa al-

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) QATAR (99%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); SYRIA (94%); GULF STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Middle East

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



276 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: New York Wins the Battle for Fresh Direct

BYLINE: ANDY NEWMAN and CHARLES V. BAGLI


HIGHLIGHT: The online grocer, now based in Queens, turned down a $100 million package of tax breaks, land and subsidies from New Jersey and is moving to the Bronx. 

 BODY:
The battle over whether the Giants belong to New York or New Jersey may rage eternally, but for now New York has scored a decisive victory in the War for Fresh Direct.
Fending off a $100 million package of tax breaks, land and other subsidies dangled in front of Fresh Direct like so many jumbo organic carrots by the New Jersey governor, Chris Christie, New York officials announced Tuesday that Fresh Direct, based in Queens, will build and move to a 500,000-square-foot building in the Bronx.
But it is costing New York quite a bit keep the online grocer, which has outgrown its Long Island City headquarters, on this side of the Hudson. The total value of the incentives from the city, the state and the Bronx tops $120 million, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office said in a news release. That includes $74 million in city tax exemptions, $18.5 million in state tax credits, and $18 million in cash, split between city and state, to get the project rolling. The move was reported Monday night by The Daily News.
The benefit of this investment, the city said, is the retention of 2,000 existing jobs, the creation of 1,000 new jobs and an estimated overall economic impact to the city alone of nearly $255 million.
"Making sure that companies like Fresh Direct can grow and invest in New York City is a key part of our strategy to rebuild and diversify our economy," the mayor said in a statement.
Fresh Direct's chief executive officer, Jason Ackerman, said, "A new state-of-the-art facility at the Harlem River Yard in the Bronx would allow us to operate more efficiently, maintain our relationships with New York State vendors, local farmers and purveyors and continue our long track record of growth and job creation in New York."
Fresh Direct has been based in Queens, where it received a tax break from the city, for the past decade. In recent months, the company had played New Jersey against New York in its search for a new headquarters and truck depot.
After Governor Christie offered the company a $100 million package to move to Jersey City, state and city officials in New York matched the offer.
Still, some advocacy groups called the arrangement too generous. 
Bettina Damiani, project director of Good Jobs New York, said the city was not even requiring Fresh Direct to hire Bronx residents or to move goods by rail, though the site is to be located in a neighborhood with a high rate of asthma.
"Once again, a lot of city money is going into the Bronx without any guarantees that folks in the Bronx will benefit," she said. "And the process stinks."
Seth Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, defended the deal, saying New York needed "a mix of employment opportunities."
"This is a significant investment by a growing industrial business," Mr. Pinsky said. "We're very excited to see them expand." 

        
Living His Passion for Hip-Hop
        
'Like Home,' if Home Is Mexico
        
Confiscated Money Helps Create Haven for Students in the Bronx
        
The Bronx Savors Its Second-Place Marathoner
        
It's More Than Holiday Spirit; It's Having a Place to Call Home

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); CITIES (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ASTHMA (50%) Bronx; Fresh Direct; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; FreshDirect; Business

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%) FreshDirect

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



277 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Students Paying U.S. Tuitions - How? And Why?

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: A Chinese freshman at an American public university will typically pay three times what an in-state student pays. And with increasing numbers of Chinese kids at U.S. colleges, even with a booming economy back home, how are they paying more than $50,000 a year? A high school educator from one of Beijing's leading schools explains the how, the why and the how much. 

 BODY:
Rendezvous recently poked around the issue of Chinese high school students doctoring their applications to gain admission to U.S universities. Surveys and anecdotal evidence suggest that more than half of all Chinese students will have faked something in their admission packets. 
What we were unable to explore in our original piece, however, was how these students and their families finance their American college educations. U.S students amass debt, of course, but educational loans in China are virtually unheard of.
"I'm always surprised by how indifferent Chinese parents are to costs,'' said Jiang Xueqin, the deputy principal of Peking University High School, one of China's s premier schools. He helps students and their families with their study-abroad plans, and he wrote to us at length about the contours of this highly nuanced issue. 
"Most of our parents are indeed well-connected and wealthy," Mr. Jiang said, "although it's extremely unclear how much money they actually have. A government official in Beijing may officially make 5,000 yuan a month'' - about $790 - "but there's no way that he's only making that much money.''
Tuition at Mr. Jiang's high school is nearly $12,700 a year, he said. 
Many upwardly mobile Chinese families, especially those who have adhered to the state's one-child policy, have been saving for years to pay for college. If they're still short, they might sell their apartment, and extended family members might kick in. 
Of Mr. Jiang's 43 current students, only one has explicitly told him that she cannot afford overseas study. So she's looking for a scholarship.
Foreign students are highly prized (and heavily recruited) by budget-challenged public universities in the United States because the foreigners typically pay much higher tuition fees than in-state students. 
At the highly ranked University of Michigan, for example, an incoming freshman from Shanghai is charged nearly $38,000 in annual tuition and fees, while a kid from Kalamazoo will pay less than $13,000. Add in books, travel, room, board and the occasional 2 a.m. pizza, and the Chinese student will be well over $50,000. 
Mr. Jiang noted the tension that often arises when it becomes clear that the Chinese (or other foreign students) are paying far more than their in-state counterparts.
"The locals think that the Chinese are rich foreigners, while the Chinese think they're paying for the lazy locals to go to school,'' Mr. Jiang said. "This disparity also leads to a mentality among Chinese students that they are 'purchasing' the American university degree.''
So why do Chinese parents spend so much money? 
"While there's a minority of parents who think an American education superior, I think most see an American college degree as a luxury goods item - they want the 'face' value of an American-educated child. This study-abroad phenomenon is also benefiting from a herd mentality."
At Mr. Jiang's school, the parents look most closely at the rankings by U.S. News & World Report. 
"They're usually aiming for a top 50 school,'' he said. "The really prestigious brands in China are Harvard (every parent's dream school), Yale, Princeton, MIT, Stanford, and Wharton. 
Mr. Jiang also mentioned a new trend he's seeing - "a growing consensus within China that Chinese students who've studied abroad and who return to China are becoming a social problem.''
"They return with limited English and limited marketable skills, yet they also have high expectations,'' he said.
 "As well, while they really don't fit in America, they have also developed habits and ways of thinking that don't permit them to integrate back into Chinese society easily.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%) Admissions Standards; Chinese Language; Colleges and Universities; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Students (in US); International Study and Teaching; Social Conditions and Trends; Tuition; University of Michigan; US News & World Report; Beijing (China); China; United States; Education; Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%) University of Michigan; US News & World Report

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%) Beijing (China); China; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



278 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: After a Year, Startup America Has a Start

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: Will it have a quantifiable effect in nurturing start-ups and creating jobs? 

 BODY:
It's been a year since business leaders gathered at the White House to kick off the Startup America Partnership, a national nonprofit initiative intended to spur the growth of new companies, with the end goal of creating jobs.
What has happened in 12 months? Did Startup America become a well-meaning but soft entrepreneurial pep rally, as skeptics feared? Or are entrepreneurs getting a measurable, tangible boost from its efforts? 
The answer, so far, is a bit of both. Startup America is still in start-up mode. The organization's board met for the first time in December. Unsurprisingly, it has yet to hatch the next Facebook or put a discernible dent in unemployment. Whether it will have a quantifiable effect in nurturing start-ups and creating jobs is unlikely to be evident for some time.
But its chairman, Steve Case, a co-founder of AOL, and its chief executive, Scott Case, a co-founder of Priceline who is not related to Steve Case, have been promoting the importance of entrepreneurs while building their program's infrastructure. Here is what they have done so far:
 Startup America has joined with big companies like Dell, Facebook, Ernst & Young, Google and Microsoft. The behemoths pledged $1.2 billion worth of consulting, software and other donated services for start-ups. For example: Intuit offers Startup America members six free months of its online payroll system. Google AdWords gives an additional $1,000 worth of ads to members who spend $1,000. Dell offers discounts on laptop purchases.
 Startup America has also begun recruiting members. Young companies register free and receive access to those offers, along with the chance to network with other members and be promoted on Startup America's Web site. They also get free use of a .co Web address for a year. To qualify for membership, companies must fall into one of two categories: founded since 2006 and employing at least two people, or founded since 2001 and employing at least six people.
So far, 3,800 start-ups have signed on. The goal is to get 100,000 start-ups by March 31. That will not be easy, so Startup America has "gameified" the process, creating a competition in which venture capitalists and other start-up stalwarts vie with one another to recruit the most. (Brad Feld of the Foundry Group is leading the pack with 119 start-ups, despite one rival's vow to "crush him like a bug.")
 Startup America has joined with business leaders in 17 states to create local "Startup Regions," a loose network of community-driven efforts to promote start-ups through networking and mentoring. A flurry of kickoff celebrations happened on Jan. 31 when nine new Startup Regions - including Hawaii, Kansas, Michigan and Missouri - were started.
I spoke recently with Scott Case about the past year, what Startup America's offerings mean for new companies, and what comes next.
Q
A. We focused on three things pretty early on that have developed over time. The first was bringing in partners from the corporate sector that had specific things they could offer to help start-ups to grow their businesses, all with the idea that we could get them access to some unbelievable tools.
The second thing we realized is that the network of support for start-ups is vastly different across the country. In places like Silicon Valley or Boston or New York, there is a very robust network for start-up culture. But there are clearly beachheads in lots of other places around the country where there were amazing start-ups. And that inspired Startup Illinois, quickly followed by Startup Tennessee, then Startup Connecticut. Before we knew it we had eight states with serial entrepreneurs who saw what Startup America was doing and said, "We want our state to be a great place to start and grow a company. What can we do as a community in each of these places?
The third major track was accelerating the visibility of America's start-ups in all industries, not just high-tech. How do we raise the visibility for start-ups, which often get lumped into being small businesses until they become big businesses? They need to be engaged and treated and elevated, because they really are the heroes of our economy in many ways. All the net new jobs created in the last 30 years were created by companies less than five years old.
Q
A. We're collecting a set of data from every Startup America firm. We ask what their revenue run rate is, what their most recent month was, how many full-time and part-time employees.
So the impact of the work will come out as we track these companies over long periods of time. Do they grow faster than the typical organizations? We're looking out at the next two years and saying, "O.K., how did these start-ups grow? What tools and resources were they able to take the most advantage of?" And then, "How did the rest of the ecosystem respond to engaging with those start-ups?"
Readers, what do you think of the program?

        
Coding Start-Ups Compete for Booming Market
        
S.B.A. Readying Program to Invest in Start-Ups
        
What Start-Ups Can Learn From a Crime Boss
        
The Best of the Boss
        
High School Entrepreneurs Promise to Save Millions for Schools

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%) Scott Case; Start-ups; Startup America; Steve Case; Case, Stephen M; Feld, Brad; Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Start

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); INTUIT INC (54%); AMERICA'S WEB STATION INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); INTU (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (54%)

PERSON: STEVE CASE (92%) Case, Stephen M; Feld, Brad

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



279 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Fed to Vote on Capital One Deal for ING Direct

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Under Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve must now weigh systemic risk when evaluating a deal - and shut down an acquisition that is likely to endanger the economy. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve is set to vote on Wednesday on Capital One's $9 billion acquisition of ING Direct USA.
The proposed takeover, announced in June, is among the first bank mergers to face regulatory scrutiny for its impact on the broader economy. Under the Dodd-Frank law, the financial regulatory overhaul passed in response to the financial crisis, the Fed must now weigh systemic risk when evaluating a deal - and shut down an acquisition that is likely to endanger the economy. 
Critics say Capital One's acquisition of ING Direct will do just that. The takeover would transform Capital One into the nation's fifth largest bank by deposits, leaping from the No. 8 spot. The deal drew criticism during a rare round of public hearings last year, when consumer advocates and community bankers argued that the merger would create another too-big-to-fail bank.
Despite the controversy, the firm has sounded an optimistic tone about the deal winning approval. In an earnings announcement last month, the bank's top executives said they hoped the Fed would rule during the first quarter of 2011. Initially, the bank envisioned closing the deal between late last year and early 2012.
"We remain on track," Richard D. Fairbank, Capital One's chairman and chief executive, said on a recent conference call with analysts, adding that deal would be "game changing" for the bank.
For now, the deal's fate rests with the Federal Reserve Board governors, who will meet in Washington on Wednesday afternoon.
Capital One needs support from a majority of the board's five governors to secure approval. It is also possible the Fed will approve the deal on the condition that Capital One sheds certain assets or increases lending in low-income areas, moves that might appease critics. 
The deal is part of Capital One's broader effort to expand its footprint across the country. The bank last year also announced plans to buy HSBC's American credit card business for $2.6 billion, a deal that the bank hopes will gain regulatory approval later this year. 
With ING, Capital One agreed to pay $6.2 billion in cash for the firm's online banking unit in the United States. Under the terms of the deal, Capital One would also issue $2.8 billion worth of new shares to ING Group, giving the Dutch firm a 9.9 percent stake.
Consumer advocates objected immediately. Led by the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, the advocacy groups cast the deal as a risk to taxpayers and painted the firm as a risky subprime lender. About a third of Capital One's credit card portfolio carries the subprime label, defined as loans to borrowers with credit scores below 660, according to the company. 
The Fed, responding to pressure from consumer groups and Democratic lawmakers, held three public hearings on the deal. 
While the contentious hearings provided a forum for critics to assail the deal, the bank also took the chance to defend its reputation. The deal, Capital One's general counsel said, would actually reduce systemic risk because the combined banks are run-of-the-mill lenders that shun risky Wall Street businesses. 
Whether the Fed ultimately agrees is a matter of great importance for the banking industry. The Fed's decision could have a broader impact on deal making among banks, especially if the governors spells out for the first time what constitutes a systemically risky acquisition.
The Fed also might acknowledge that the deal poses some risks to the economy -- but approve it nonetheless. 
"While Congress instructed us to consider the extent to which a proposed acquisition would pose a greater risk to financial stability, it clearly did not instruct us to reject an acquisition simply because there would be any increase in such risks," Daniel K. Tarullo, a Federal Reserve Board governor, said in a speech last year.

        
Assailed for Subprime Loans, Capital One Defends ING Deal
        
Capital One Denies ING Deal Would Make It 'Too Big to Fail'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); APPROVALS (89%); MERGERS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTERNET BANKING (72%); CREDIT CARDS (66%); SALES & SELLING (51%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Capital One; Daniel K. Tarullo; Federal Reserve; ING Direct USA; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%); ING BANK FSB (58%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD D FAIRBANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



280 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Theme Park Income Spurs Profits at Disney

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: Operating income at Disney's parks division was up 18 percent over the same quarter a year ago, a positive sign for the broader economy and an indication of that sector's overall strength. The company's cable division also did well, but the film unit's performance was more mixed. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - Vacationers are opening their wallets more freely than they have in years at Disney's theme parks, adding to signs of growing consumer confidence and contributing to a climbing quarterly profit at the entertainment conglomerate.
The Walt Disney Company said Tuesday that operating income in its parks division, watched as a barometer of the broader economy, increased 18 percent in the most recent quarter, to $553 million. Revenue increased 10 percent, to $3.2 billion. Higher ticket prices contributed, but so did increased food and beverage spending at Walt Disney World in Florida and the Disneyland Resort in California.
Spending on hotel rooms increased 6 percent as Disney continued to reduce promotional rates put into place in recent years to counter the recession, according to James A. Rasulo, Disney's chief financial officer. He told analysts during a conference call that room bookings for the next quarter were running above levels of a year ago by a "mid-single-digit" percentage.
Over all, Disney's results easily beat Wall Street estimates of 72 cents a share. For the quarter, which ended on Dec. 31, Disney reported net income of $1.5 billion, or 80 cents a share, up from $1.3 billion, or 68 cents a share, in the same quarter a year earlier. Revenue in the quarter, the first of Disney's fiscal year, inched up 1 percent, to $10.8 billion.
Disney's cable television channels, which include ESPN and Disney Channel, also contributed to the strong quarter. Operating income in this division, which Disney calls media networks, increased 12 percent, to $1.2 billion. Most of the growth, as usual, came from ESPN, driven by higher payments from cable providers for the right to carry programming from the sports behemoth.
Ad sales at ESPN were essentially flat. Although ESPN was able to increase its ad prices, totals were offset by decreased ratings tied to a shift in timing for the Rose Bowl and the Fiesta Bowl and fewer N.B.A. games. At the ABC broadcast network, ad sales declined because of weakness at local stations, although Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, said ABC had sold out its inventory for the Oscar show on Feb. 26.
(Asked by analysts to address reports on Monday that ABC News may join Univision to start an English-language cable news channel, Mr. Iger declined to comment beyond saying that his directive to ABC News is to "look for and create some growth opportunities.")
Offsetting strength in television and theme parks was weakness in other parts of Disney's empire. Interactive media, a business unit that includes video games and Disney.com, continued to vex the company, as losses widened to $28 million, from $13 million a year earlier. Revenue declined 20 percent, to $279 million. A lull in game releases was largely to blame, as the same quarter a year ago included sales of console games tied to "Toy Story 3," "Tron: Legacy" and an original game called Epic Mickey.
Moviemaking was more of mixed picture. Revenue at Walt Disney Studios fell 16 percent, to $1.6 billion, in the quarter, holding down revenue gains for the broader company. A shift to fewer movies is one reason for the decline. In the recent quarter, Disney released one movie, "The Muppets," which was a hit but not a blockbuster; a year earlier Disney released "Tangled" and "Tron: Legacy" in the same period.
Disney also blamed lower DVD sales, as Pixar's "Cars 2" sold fewer discs than did "Toy Story 3" a year ago.
But fewer theatrical releases - and thus sharply lower marketing, distribution and production costs - allowed the movie studio to report a 10 percent increase in operating income, to $413 million.

        
Univision and Disney in Talks for an English-Language News Channel
        
At 'Upfronts' for Children's TV, It's Viacom vs. Surging Disney
        
Meredith Buys FamilyFun Magazine From Disney
        
Comcast's 10-Year Deal With Disney Includes Out-of-Home Viewing
        
Disney Promotes a New Leader at ESPN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); SPORTS (86%); CABLE TELEVISION (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); RECESSION (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (64%); COMPUTER GAMES (63%) The Walt Disney Company; Amusement and Theme Parks; Company Reports; Movies; Television; Disney Channel; Disney, Walt, World; ESPN; Walt Disney Company; Walt Disney Company|DIS|NYSE

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%); ESPN INC (85%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%); DISNEY INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP (58%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney Channel; Disney, Walt, World; ESPN; Walt Disney Company

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%) Walt Disney Company; DIS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



281 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: 5 Banks Said to Bid for A.I.G. Assets

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: The auction will be the second major sale of the year of assets held by the New York Fed in a vehicle known as Maiden Lane II, which absorbed A.I.G.'s soured residential mortgage-backed securities after its 2008 bailout. 

 BODY:
Another batch of the riskiest mortgage-backed securities once owned by the American International Group is being auctioned off this week, according to two people familiar with the matter, in a sale that would bring the insurance giant's 2008 collapse once step closer to a resolution.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York took control of the assets after A.I.G. was bailed out in 2008. They are being auctioned to a group of bidders that includes Credit Suisse, Barclays Capital, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Royal Bank of Scotland, according to the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the auction was private. Bids are due on Wednesday, and a winner will probably be identified by Friday, the people said.
A New York Fed spokesman declined to comment. BlackRock, the asset manager whose BlackRock Solutions unit is leading the sale, also declined to comment.
The auction will be the second major sale of the year of assets held by the New York Fed in a vehicle known as Maiden Lane II, which absorbed A.I.G.'s soured residential mortgage-backed securities after its 2008 bailout. Last month, Credit Suisse won an auction for bonds from the vehicle with a face value of around $7 billion, which it promptly sold to clients including hedge funds and other banks.
The success of that auction led to another bid by one of the five firms for more Maiden Lane II assets, and signaled that the market for residential mortgage-backed securities, the bete noires of the financial crisis, has improved since last year. The New York Fed conducted a sale of some of the Maiden Lane II bonds in June, but had to halt the sale when it created turmoil in the bond market. 
The bonds being sold in this auction have a face value of roughly $6 billion, about half the amount remaining in Maiden Lane II, according to the people. The auction was earlier reported by The Wall Street Journal.

        
New York Fed Sells $7 Billion in A.I.G. Assets to Credit Suisse
        
A.I.G.'s Chief Calls Fed Rejection a 'Huge Problem'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BOND MARKETS (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); INSURANCE (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) American International Group; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Maiden Lane; Banking and Financial Institutions; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; American International Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BLACKROCK INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (71%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Federal Reserve Bank of New York

TICKER: BLK (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (85%); CS (NYSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (71%); RBS (LSE) (71%); RBS (AMS) (71%); MS (NYSE) (58%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (85%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



282 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Glencore to Buy Full Control of Xstrata for $41 Billion

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Glencore International, the world's biggest commodities trading company, has agreed to buy Xstrata in a deal that would create a company valued at nearly $90 billion. 

 BODY:
8:02 p.m. | Updated 
LONDON - Glencore International, the largest commodities trading company in the world, said on Tuesday that it would buy the remaining stake in the mining company Xstrata that it did not already own, in a long-anticipated deal that would create a mining giant with a market value of nearly $90 billion.
As commodity prices have soared, the mining industry has quickly consolidated, with leading players looking to capitalize on the rising demand in developing countries like China. In 2011, mining companies announced $168.6 billion of acquisitions, a 26 percent increase over the previous year, according to data from Dealogic.
By merging with Xstrata, Glencore would enhance its position in emerging markets like Africa, Kazakhstan and South America. The company, to be renamed Glencore Xstrata International, would be the fourth-largest diversified mining company in the world, with revenue of $209 billion and pretax profit of $16 billion, based on 2011 figures.
"The proposed deal combines Xstrata's high-margin mining operations with Glencore's low-margin sales and marketing business," said Charles Cooper, a mining analyst at Oriel Securities in London. "The new company can perform better as a whole group than as separate entities."
On Tuesday, Xstrata's share price fell 4.9 percent, while stock in Glencore fell 3.8 percent.
Under the terms of the deal, Glencore, which holds 34 percent of Xstrata, would pay about $41 billion for the remaining stake, valuing the company at nearly $62 billion. The offer represents a 15 percent premium on Xstrata's closing share price on Feb. 1.
On Tuesday, major investors in Xstrata balked at the acquisition, looking for Glencore to sweeten the offer.
Richard Buxton, head of British equities at the asset manager Schroders, planned to vote against the deal, according to a company spokeswoman, Georgina Robertson; the firm owns roughly 1.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data.
David Cumming, head of equities at the British asset manager Standard Life Investments, said the proposed takeover undervalued Xstrata's assets and its future earnings potential. "It is our intention to vote against the deal unless the merger terms for Xstrata shareholders are materially improved," Mr. Cumming said in a statement. His firm holds about 2 percent of Xstrata stock.
The companies need the support of at least 75 percent of their individual shareholders to complete the transaction.
The merger must also pass regulatory muster in various regions, including the European Union, China and the United States. Many Xstrata and Glencore customers are based in China, so local authorities are likely to take a close look at whether it would lead to price increases for domestic companies, including energy producers and manufacturers.
Officials have been especially sensitive to mining mergers, as the number of players has shrunk in recent years. In 2009, the global miner Rio Tinto had to walk away from a proposed $19.5 billion linkup with Chinalco of China, a state-owned resources company, after regulators in Australia balked at the deal.
Xstrata and Glencore said there were few overlaps with their companies' existing operations that could run afoul of antitrust laws. Mick Davis, Xstrata's chief executive, told investors on Tuesday that the deal should be completed by the end of the third quarter.
The union of Glencore and Xstrata has been expected for some time. Last year, Glencore raised $10 billion through an initial public offering, saying that it planned to use some of the cash to expand through acquisitions.
The deal would also bring together two businesses that split about a decade ago. Xstrata became a publicly listed company in 2002 after it acquired the Australian and South African coal assets of Glencore. In February 2011, Xstrata's chief, Mr. Davis, called it "unsustainable in the longer term" to have the two companies listed separately.
Like many mining mergers, Glencore and Xstrata are betting on growth and savings, as they look to make the marriage work. The companies, both of which have benefited from increasing demand from emerging economies, expect their combined annual growth to reach 11 percent over the next five years, compared with the industry average of 7 percent, according to a company statement. They also hope to wring out annual cost savings of at least of $500 million after 2012.
"A merger between Glencore and Xstrata offers a unique opportunity to create a new business model in our industry to respond to a changing environment," Mr. Davis told analysts on Tuesday. "Increased scale and diversity will improve our risk profile, enhance access to capital markets and allow us to participate in industry consolidation."
Mr. Davis would become the chief executive of the combined company. Ivan Glasenberg, Glencore's current chief executive, would become deputy chief executive of the new company, while Xstrata's chairman, John Bond, would be the chairman of the proposed Glencore Xstrata.
Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and the law firm Linklaters advised Glencore on the deal. Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Nomura advised Xstrata.

        
Glencore and Xstrata in Talks for $80 Billion Deal
        
Big Xstrata Shareholders Balk at Glencore Takeover

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MERGERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Glencore International; Ivan Glasenberg; Mick Davis; Xstrata; Bond, John; Glasenberg, Ivan; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Mines and Mining; Glencore International AG; Xstrata|XSRAF|other-OTC; Basic Materials; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: XSTRATA PLC (92%); GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (92%); RIO TINTO GROUP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Glencore International AG; Xstrata

TICKER: XTAN (SWX) (92%); XTA (LSE) (92%); GLEN (LSE) (92%); 0805 (HKSE) (92%); RIOS (BRU) (58%); RIO (NYSE) (58%); RIO (LSE) (58%); RIO (ASX) (58%) Xstrata; XSRAF; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (92%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%)

PERSON: MICK DAVIS (58%) Bond, John; Glasenberg, Ivan

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); AFRICA (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



283 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Tilting the Budget Process to the G.O.P.

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Congressional Republicans are trying to tamper with institutions that won't do their bidding, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The House of Representatives voted last week to tilt the budgetary process in favor of the Republican economic agenda. On Feb. 3, the House passed H.R. 3582, the Pro-Growth Budgeting Act of 2012. Innocuous on the surface, its long-term purpose is to institutionalize Republican economic policy into the very fabric of budgetary analysis.
The legislation would require that the Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation do a "dynamic" analysis of major legislation - defined as that with a gross budgetary impact greater than 0.25 percent of the gross domestic product. Such an analysis would calculate the impact on real G.D.P. growth, the capital stock and labor supply.
The dynamic calculation would be supplementary and not replace the current official scoring methodology, but the obvious long-term goal is to require official revenue estimates to incorporate "Laffer curve" effects in order to make it easier to cut taxes and harder to raise them.

The Laffer curve, named for the economist Arthur Laffer, posits that tax rates may be so high that a tax-rate reduction will raise revenue to the government and a tax-rate increase will lower revenue. 
While no economist denies the theoretical possibility of a revenue-raising tax cut or revenue-losing tax increase, Republicans talk as if the United States is always on the high side of the Laffer curve - no matter what the tax rates are - so every tax cut will pay for itself and no tax increase could possibly ever raise net revenue and thus reduce the deficit.
There was a plausible case that reducing the top income tax rate in 1981 to 50 percent from 70 percent would raise net revenue, mainly by curbing the value of tax shelters. But of course, reducing the bottom rate to 11 percent from 14 percent was just a pure revenue loser. 
Contrary to liberal mythology, the Reagan administration never asserted that the 1981 tax cut would come anywhere close to paying for itself. All its official revenue estimates conformed to standard revenue-estimating methodology and incorporated no supply-side effects.
Nor did the George W. Bush administration ever assert that any of its tax cuts would pay for themselves. Yet Republican leaders like Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky continually assert that they did, in fact, pay for themselves and had no impact on the deficit. 
A careful study by the C.B.O., however, found that the Bush tax cuts reduced revenues by $3 trillion through 2011, adding that much to the national debt.
As the budget deficit increasingly inhibits Republicans' tax-cutting, they are planning ahead for tax cuts that they will insist are costless because they will so massively increase growth. But for that approach to work, the C.B.O. and the Joint Committee on Taxation, Congress's official budget and tax estimators, need to be forced to play along. 
That's what the new legislation is all about.
It goes without saying that Congress deserves the most accurate possible estimates of the revenue effects of tax legislation, and no one denies that many past estimates have sometimes been far off because of unforeseen circumstances, such as recessions. 
But Republicans assert that the errors are systematic and result principally from Keynesian economics. As the Budget Committee report on H.R. 3582 explains, the computer models used by the C.B.O. "are driven by traditional Keynesian economic relationships that emphasize the influence of aggregate demand on output in the short term."
My concern is that the Republican effort is just a smokescreen to incorporate phony-baloney factors into revenue estimates to justify unlimited tax cutting. How soon before the C.B.O. is required to incorporate estimates from the right-wing Heritage Foundation in its calculations? 
It already has a very well-financed Center for Data Analysis that the chairman of the House Budget Committee, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, used to analyze his budget plan last year, bypassing the Joint Committee on Taxation and C.B.O.
Moreover, my memory is still fresh regarding the documented Republican effort in 2003 to suppress internal estimates of the cost of the Medicare Part D program. Medicare's chief actuary, Richard Foster, has testified to the pressure that was put on him by a Bush administration political appointee, Tom Scully, which was documented by the inspector general for the Department of Health and Human Services. 
(I also remember Newt Gingrich's demand that every Republican in Congress vote yes on this budget-busting legislation, which added $16 trillion to the federal government's long-term debt, according to Medicare's trustees.)
I am also suspicious of what appear to be politically motivated investigations into C.B.O. by Republican congressional staff members, reported on Feb. 2 by The Wall Street Journal, and Republican efforts to gut the Government Accountability Office. 
As I have previously noted, this fits into a pattern - since getting control of Congress in 1995, Republicans have often abolished institutions that they couldn't turn into puppet organizations for promoting their agenda.
In other words, it is an issue of credibility. Republicans don't really care about accurate revenue estimates; they just want them to show that tax cuts pay for themselves, so they can pass more of them without constraint. As my fellow Economix contributor Simon Johnson has noted, the corruption of the agencies that produce budget data is a crucial cause of Europe's debt crisis.
Confirmation of this fear is the fact that the House-passed legislation would not require a dynamic estimate for appropriations bills, no matter how large. Republicans want the world to know that tax cuts expand real G.D.P., the capital stock and labor supply, but if spending has any such effect they don't want anyone to know. Implicitly, Republicans want everyone to think that spending never raises growth because it's their dogma.
But in the real world, everyone knows that government investments in the national highway system, medical and other scientific research, and other programs unquestionably add to growth. And there are times when government spending can provide macroeconomic stimulus, which the C.B.O. has repeatedly documented, to the consternation of Republicans.
Over the last three years, we have seen Republicans politicize every aspect of policy making - filibustering virtually every administration bill and appointment in the Senate, risking default on the national debt by refusing to raise the debt limit, and routinely threatening government shutdowns unless the White House accedes to their demands. 
It is reasonable to assume that the Republicans' effort to alter the budget process is just another aspect of their goal to politicize policy and institutionalize their philosophy.

        
Are the Bush Tax Cuts the Root of Our Fiscal Problem?
        
A Close Look at the Perry Tax Plan
        
How to Avoid Reinventing the Wheel on Tax Reform, Part 2
        
The True Federal Debt
        
How Politics Came to Dominate Payroll Tax Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TAX INCREASES (76%); INCOME TAX (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%) Bruce Bartlett; budget; budget deficit; Bush tax cuts; Congressional Budget Office; Daily Economist; federal budget; Joint Committee on Taxation; Laffer Curve; Paul Ryan; politics; Ronald Reagan; Federal Budget (US); Republican Party; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%) Republican Party

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



284 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Sanctions' Bite in the Streets of Iran

BYLINE: MARCUS MABRY


HIGHLIGHT: From the hoarding of staples to canceled trips by holidaymakers to destabilizing currency fluctuations, the effects of the effort to force Tehran to halt its nuclear program are making everyday life more difficult, Robert F. Worth reports from Tehran. And the new sanctions have not yet taken hold. 

 BODY:
Our colleague Bobby Worth has a riveting look inside middle-class Iran, where, he reports, tightening sanctions are starting to affect everyday life. He reports on the effects of "a rising sense of panic about Iran's encirclement, the possibility of war and the prospect of more economic pain to come."
Already, the last round of sanctions on Iran's Central Bank has begun inflicting unprecedented damage on Iran's private sector, traders and analysts say, making it so hard to transfer money abroad that even affluent businessmen are sometimes forced to board planes carrying suitcases full of American dollars.
He also says the impact on life is further dividing Iranian society:
Ordinary Iranians complain that the sanctions are hurting them, while those at the top are unscathed, or even benefit. Many wealthy Iranians made huge profits in recent weeks by buying dollars at the government rate (available to insiders) and then selling them for almost twice as many rials on the soaring black market. Some analysts and opposition political figures contend that Mr. Ahmadinejad deliberately worsened the currency crisis so that his cronies could generate profits this way. 
You can read the U.S. Treasury's fact sheet on the sanctions or the more in-depth overview of U.S. sanctions against Iran dating back to 1987 under Ronald Reagan. 
Meanwhile, Al Arabiya News reports, "Iran boosts nuke work in bunker as U.S. and Europe plan major amphibious drill."
If you visit Iran or have family or contacts there, or do business with Iran or Iranians, what can you tell Rendezvous? Have you seen an appreciable difference in life or business there? 
For everyone else: what are the chances that a middle class feeling sanctions' bite will actually bring about the result the West seeks, an end to Iran's enrichment programs? And what are the chances that an embattled middle class will support the leadership more? And what difference will any of this make to the country's leaders or its nuclear program?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



285 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: In Colorado, Recovery Falls Along Party Lines

BYLINE: KIRK JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Some of the most heavily Republican areas in Colorado have stubbornly high unemployment rates, while some of the most staunchly Democratic places have done better. 

 BODY:
 If economic frustration fuels fervor Tuesday in the Republican presidential caucuses in Colorado -- or in the general election -- the map might be one place to turn for answers. 
The state's recovery from recession has been spotty and uneven, a pattern seen in many places. But the further wrinkle for both parties in Colorado is that some of the most heavily Republican areas have lagged the most, with stubbornly higher unemployment rates, while some of the most staunchly Democratic places have done better.
 The pattern is not without its exceptions, most notably Denver -- the state capital, its largest city and home of the biggest pool of Democrats -- which has had trouble regenerating the finance and real estate jobs it lost in the bust.
 But elsewhere around the state, the pattern is pretty striking.
In Grand Junction, for example, a retiree haven in the state's western edge that gave Senator John McCain of Arizona more than 63 percent of the presidential vote in 2008, the unemployment rate in December was 9 percent, compared to 7.9 percent statewide. In Boulder, by contrast, the university town near Denver where 72 percent of the vote went to President Obama (helping him carry the state and its 9 electoral votes), the unemployment rate in December was only 5.8 percent, according to state figures.
The biggest place to watch, though, is probably Colorado Springs, the state's second-largest city and home to the biggest Republican voting block; Focus on the Family, the conservative Christian group, is based there, as is the cultural spinoff effect of nearby Fort Carson 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%) McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Economic Conditions and Trends; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Focus on the Family; Colorado; Elections

ORGANIZATION: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (82%) Focus on the Family

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (88%) McCain, John; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (78%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (78%) COLORADO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2012



286 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: February 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: The Persistence of the Culture War

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The lack of common ground between left and right on abortion, same-sex marriage and contraception shows just how seriously we take these issues. 

 BODY:
Before he disappointed his many admirers by declining to seek the Republican nomination, Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana told the Weekly Standard's Andrew Ferguson that the gravity of the economic and fiscal challenges facing America's next president might require calling a temporary "truce on the so-called social issues." On culture war controversies like abortion and same-sex marriage, he suggested, "we're going to just have to agree to get along for a little while."
The comments earned Daniels a round of criticism from social conservatives, and they probably would have haunted him on the primary trail. But in a sense his point was understandable - and given his own firm anti-abortion record, he probably thought he had the credibility to deliver it. To everything there is a political season, and in an era of high unemployment and record deficits a president who picked too many fights on non-economic issues would find himself an ex-president soon enough.
But Daniels's attempt to frame this reality in the language of a "truce" was at once inapt and naive, and the last few weeks have reminded us why. The 2012 election is not going to be dominated by social issues, insofar as economic concerns are likely to far outweigh every other issue in determining the winner. But even amid downturns and deficits, the culture wars are still inevitably significant, for the very simple reason that there's no common ground on which to call a truce.
You can see this at work in all three of the controversies that have earned headlines recently: The Obama administration's attempt to require religious institutions to pay for contraception, sterilization and the morning-after pill; the brouhaha over the Susan G. Komen foundation's attempt to stop funding for Planned Parenthood; and Tuesday's Ninth Circuit ruling affirming an earlier lower court decision that overturned the results of California's Proposition 8, which banned same-sex marriage.
What would a truce look like on any of these issues? Well, it depends on the premises that you bring to the debate.
Start with the contraception mandate. To many observers, myself included, a mandate that required insurers to cover reproductive interventions while exempting religious employers seemed like the obvious way for a liberal White House to advance its social agenda while preserving social peace. (And judging by the signals David Axelrod sent out Tuesday, that may still be where a backtracking Obama administration ends up.)
But to many on the left, access to free contraception is regarded as a fundamental human right, and "treatments" that pre-empt a potential pregnancy like Plan B and ella are morally indistinguishable from the treatments that combat a stroke or a tumor or H.I.V. Given these premises, the White House policy's exemption for churches already seems like a significant compromise, and an exemption for hospitals and schools would represent surrender to religious conservatives.
The two sides, in other words, can't even agree about where the middle ground might be. The same goes for the Komen-Planned Parenthood fracas. It seems obvious to abortion opponents that a breast cancer charity that finances an abortion provider is effectively taking sides in the abortion debate, and that Komen's temporary policy shift was an attempt to return to more neutral ground. 
But needless to say, this is not the view of Komen's many critics. Because the money didn't directly pay for abortions, they have insisted, the existing grants were already entirely apolitical, and any change amounted to a surrender to what Mother Jones's Kevin Drum called the right's anti-Planned Parenthood jihad.
Then we have the Ninth Circuit's same-sex marriage ruling, which most likely will set the stage for an appeal from Proposition 8's backers to the Supreme Court. There are all sorts of possible compromises one could imagine on the question of same-sex wedlock, ranging from civil unions to domestic partnership provisions to a federalism that respects New York's recent vote legalizing same-sex marriage and the results of Proposition 8 alike.
But social conservatives weren't particularly interested in compromise a decade ago, when they had public opinion on their side, and now that the polls have swung the other way same-sex marriage supporters are disinclined to compromise either. One could draw up a truce on paper, in other words, but only the losing side would be inclined to sign it.
These uncompromising realities can be exhausting and exasperating to the many Americans who are caught in the middle, or who consider the social issues to be a polarizing distraction from more pressing economic matters. Still, the culture warriors of left and right do understand something that their less ideological fellow countrymen sometimes forget. 
From election to election, politics is mostly about jobs and the economy and the state of the public purse - which is as it should be. But the arguments that we remember longest, that define what it means to be democratic and American, are often the debates over human life and human rights, public morals and religious freedom - culture war debates, that is, in all their many forms.
Thus Plessy v. Ferguson, decided in 1896, is more famous today than, say, the Panic of 1893. The slogan "Rum, Romanism and Rebellion" is better remembered than any of Grover Cleveland's economic policies. The debates over Prohibition and women's suffrage loom larger than Warren Harding's early-1920s tax cuts.
It may well be the same for our own epoch. Come what may in our culture wars, the economy and the unemployment rate will largely determine whether Barack Obama or his Republican opponent wins the next election. But in the long run, and no matter which side ultimately prevails, the debates that just re-erupted may do more to define how our era is remembered.

        
It's Halftime in America
        
Governor Romney, Meet Governor Dukakis
        
The Anti-Entitlement Strategy
        
Other Stops: Effecting Real Change
        
Other Stops: The Debate to Nowhere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); MARRIAGE (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); ABORTION (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); MARRIAGE LAW (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (63%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (60%) Abortion; Barack Obama; contraception; Mitch Daniels; same-sex marriage; the presidential election of 2012; Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; Obama, Barack; Birth Control and Family Planning; Presidential Election of 2012; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; United States

PERSON: MITCH DANIELS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID AXELROD (57%) Daniels, Mitchell E Jr; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



287 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Brisk American Sales Lift Toyota's Profit Estimate

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Toyota Motor raised its annual profit forecast Tuesday despite a decline in its quarterly profit, as brisker sales in the United States gave the company a much-needed lift after a year overshadowed by natural disasters. 
Toyota's net profit slipped 13.5 percent to 80.9 billion yen ($1.05 billion) for the last three months of 2011. Results were hurt by production cutbacks after the tsunami in Japan last March and flooding in the manufacturing hub of Thailand in July.
But Toyota, the maker of the Camry sedan, also raised its annual profit forecast to 200 billion yen ($2.6 billion), up from 180 billion on the strength of higher sales forecasts, as it rolled out new versions of its popular Prius gas-electric hybrid and Lexus luxury vehicles in the United States and other markets.
Toyota has said it hopes that the new models will help it regain some of the market share it ceded to rivals like General Motors and Hyundai last year, after the tsunami in northeast Japan closed factories and severed supply chains, severely limiting production for months.
Just as the company appeared to be rebounding from the tsunami damage, widespread flooding in Thailand, a major manufacturing base for Japanese automakers, again curtailed production.
In 2011, sales of Toyota vehicles fell 7 percent in the United States and 23 percent in Japan, helping General Motors knock the company, based in Toyota City, from its perch as the world's largest automaker.
But since then, the Japanese automaker has been increasing production capacity at home and overseas. It said Tuesday that its Blue Springs, Miss., plant, which makes the Corolla model, had added a second shift, bringing annual production capacity to 150,000 vehicles. Toyota had halted construction at the plant after the global financial crisis in 2008, finally bringing it on line last October.
Sales in the United States, Toyota's largest market, are now picking up, having risen 7.5 percent in January because of a 56 percent increase in its flagship Camry sedan, according to Bloomberg.
Toyota is also bullish on Japan, its second-largest market behind the United States, after the government began tax incentives for low-emission cars in December in a bid to help its struggling auto industry. The Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, an industry body, expects the move to increase car sales in Japan by almost a million vehicles in 2012.
The automaker said it expected to sell 7.41 million vehicles worldwide in its financial year that ends in March, compared with a previous projection of 7.38 million.
Despite the higher forecasts, Toyota languishes far below the heights it reached just before its profits were slashed by the global financial crisis and recalls over faulty accelerator pedals. Its net profit forecast of 200 billion yen for the current financial year is just a small fraction of the 1.7 trillion yen ($22.1 billion) it earned in 2008.
And its estimated vehicle sales of 7.41 million for the financial year remain far below the almost nine million cars it sold in the 2008 financial year, a record year at the company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Tokyo showroom on Tuesday. Toyota hopes to regain market share lost after the 2011 tsunami. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCK ROBICHON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (95%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PLANT CAPACITY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (89%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); FLOODS & FLOODING (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); PLANT CLOSINGS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); THAILAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



288 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: After Fire, Keeping Focus On Better Times to Come

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
For Kimberly Vaughn, who talks matter-of-factly about the almost impossible hurdles she has faced in the past 14 months, Christmas 2011 could not have been more different from Christmas 2010.
In 2011, there were presents for her three children bought with money from her new job: a basketball and a football for her son, Patron, 9; a dollhouse for her daughter Seanaysha, 4; and a light-up learning game and toy ducks for her daughter Da'Niyah, 18 months. Ms. Vaughn had even saved some money toward moving out of a homeless shelter and getting an apartment.
In 2010, however, they were reeling: On Dec. 22, a fire ravaged the house in Brooklyn where Ms. Vaughn and her extended family lived. More than 70 firefighters had answered the call. One smashed through a back door, but it was too late for Ms. Vaughn's 4-month-old niece, who was trapped in a bedroom and later died. The family was also left homeless.
''Going from a house to a shelter, it's hard for them,'' Ms. Vaughn, 25, said. ''I tell them anybody could be in this predicament. Everybody's there for a different reason.'' 
Ms. Vaughn and her children are there, of course, because of the fire, which she said had been started by her 9-year-old nephew. She and her children lived upstairs in the house, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, and the rest of the family -- her mother, her sister and her sister's children -- lived downstairs.
When the fire broke out that afternoon, Ms. Vaughn was in the kitchen of the downstairs apartment. ''My sister was about to make holiday pies,'' she said, adding that she believed her nephew was just ''playing a game.''
He had gone into one of the bedrooms, she recalled, and was flinging a cigarette lighter across the room. ''He said some plastic caught on fire,'' she said.
The flames spread -- ''too fast,'' she said. ''First, it was just the beds and toys,'' Ms. Vaughn said. She quickly realized that everyone had to get out. She shouted for someone to call 911 and began evacuating the burning house.
''I said, 'You go get the kids and get the baby,' '' Ms. Vaughn said. She figured that all the children had been accounted for, including her niece Aniyah, whom she assumed was in her crib. ''But the baby was not in the crib,'' she said.
Firefighters found Aniyah in the room where the fire had started, alive but with burns on 90 percent of her body and serious respiratory damage from breathing in the smoke, Ms. Vaughn said. The baby died that night at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan.
Ms. Vaughn said that at first she thought the fire had been caused by a boiler malfunction. ''I couldn't understand why my nephew was crying all the time,'' she said.
Then the true story came out. ''He didn't mean for that to happen,'' she said. Both families, hers and her sister's, spent Christmas Day 2010 in a homeless shelter.
As she focused on long-term goals, Ms. Vaughn made a decision that would set the course for 2011. ''I decided to go my way,'' she said. She moved with her children to a different shelter and set her sights on making a fresh start. She was an unemployed single mother at the time, and had been receiving public assistance and food stamps. She gets minimal support from the children's fathers, she said.
Ms. Vaughn was soon referred to caseworkers at Brooklyn Community Services, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, and it gave her $400 for winter clothing for her children.
Last year, on top of the struggle to feed and clothe the children, medical problems cropped up. Patron has only 7 percent of his vision in his left eye, and Seanaysha has astigmatism. Da'Niyah has asthma and related respiratory problems from the shelter, Ms. Vaughn said.
''The day I moved to this last shelter, that's when I found out she had the asthma,'' she said. ''The room was not clean. Her lungs swelled up, and by the time we got to the emergency room, she was blue.''
Ms. Vaughn has taken Da'Niyah to the hospital three times since August; Da'Niyah uses a humidifier and an oxygen mask paid for by Medicaid, which has covered the family's other medical expenses.
In the fall, Ms. Vaughn applied for an $8.75-an-hour job at the Daffy's clothing store on West 34th Street in Manhattan. She was hired to work four days a week on the afternoon-and-evening shift. The schedule was hard -- Patron had behavioral issues at school, and Ms. Vaughn had to take time off from work to go to school appointments.
She saw the job as her ticket to a new start. But she hit a bump as 2012 started. The Daffy's job was seasonal, and while she had hoped it would lead to a full-time position, she was let go last month.
Ms. Vaughn has since been placed in a city-run program that provides a ''simulated work experience'' by assigning recipients of cash assistance and food stamps to work for their benefits at city agencies or at private nonprofit organizations.
''She's trying to get her life together,'' her caseworker, Erica Taliaferro, said. ''And she's working hard to do it.''
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kimberly Vaughn, a single mother, with her daughter Da'Niyah, 18 months
her son, Patron, 9
and her other daughter, Seanaysha, 4. They were left homeless by a December 2010 fire. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $6,372,910, Recorded Monday 13,949, Total $6,386,859, Last year to date $5,961,716 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); FIRES (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (75%); BURN INJURIES (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); HOMELESSNESS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



289 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: What Wikipedia Won't Tell You

BYLINE: By CARY H. SHERMAN. 
Cary H. Sherman is chief executive of the Recording Industry Association of America, which represents music labels.

 BODY:
Washington
THE digital tsunami that swept over the Capitol last month, forcing Congress to set aside legislation to combat the online piracy of American music, movies, books and other creative works, raised questions about how the democratic process functions in the digital age.
Policy makers had recognized a constitutional (and economic) imperative to protect American property from theft, to shield consumers from counterfeit products and fraud, and to combat foreign criminals who exploit technology to steal American ingenuity and jobs. They knew that music sales in the United States are less than half of what they were in 1999, when the file-sharing site Napster emerged, and that direct employment in the industry had fallen by more than half since then, to less than 10,000. They studied the problem in all its dimensions, through multiple hearings. 
While no legislation is perfect, the Protect Intellectual Property Act (or PIPA) was carefully devised, with nearly unanimous bipartisan support in the Senate, and its House counterpart, the Stop Online Piracy Act (or SOPA), was based on existing statutes and Supreme Court precedents. But at the 11th hour, a flood of e-mails and phone calls to Congress stopped the legislation in its tracks. Was this the result of democracy, or demagoguery?
Misinformation may be a dirty trick, but it works. Consider, for example, the claim that SOPA and PIPA were ''censorship,'' a loaded and inflammatory term designed to evoke images of crackdowns on pro-democracy Web sites by China or Iran. Since when is it censorship to shut down an operation that an American court, upon a thorough review of evidence, has determined to be illegal? When the police close down a store fencing stolen goods, it isn't censorship, but when those stolen goods are fenced online, it is? Wikipedia, Google and others manufactured controversy by unfairly equating SOPA with censorship. They also argued misleadingly that the bills would have required Web sites to ''monitor'' what their users upload, conveniently ignoring provisions like the ''No Duty to Monitor'' section.
The hyperbolic mistruths, presented on the home pages of some of the world's most popular Web sites, amounted to an abuse of trust and a misuse of power. When Wikipedia and Google purport to be neutral sources of information, but then exploit their stature to present information that is not only not neutral but affirmatively incomplete and misleading, they are duping their users into accepting as truth what are merely self-serving political declarations.
As it happens, the television networks that actively supported SOPA and PIPA didn't take advantage of their broadcast credibility to press their case. That's partly because ''old media'' draws a line between ''news'' and ''editorial.'' Apparently, Wikipedia and Google don't recognize the ethical boundary between the neutral reporting of information and the presentation of editorial opinion as fact.
The violation of neutrality is a patent hypocrisy: these companies have long argued that Internet service providers (telecommunications and cable companies) had to be regulated under the doctrine of ''net neutrality'' because of their power as owners of the Internet pipes. But what the Google and Wikipedia blackout showed is that it's the platforms that exercise the real power. Get enough of them to espouse Silicon Valley's perspective, and tens of millions of Americans will get a one-sided view of whatever the issue may be, drowning out the other side.
The conventional wisdom is that the defeat of these bills shows the power of the digital commons. Sure, anybody could click on a link or tweet in outrage -- but how many knew what they were supporting or opposing? Would they have cast their clicks if they knew they were supporting foreign criminals selling counterfeit pharmaceuticals to Americans? Was it SOPA they were opposed to, or censorship?
No doubt, some genuinely wanted to protect Americans against theft but were sincerely concerned about how the language in the bill might be interpreted. But others may simply believe that online music, books and movies should be free. And how many of those e-mails were from the same people who attacked the Web sites of the Department of Justice, the Motion Picture Association of America, my organization and others as retribution for the seizure of Megaupload, an international digital piracy operation? Indeed, it's hackers like the group Anonymous that engage in real censorship when they stifle the speech of those with whom they disagree.
Perhaps this is naive, but I'd like to believe that the companies that opposed SOPA and PIPA will now feel some responsibility to help come up with constructive alternatives. Virtually every opponent acknowledged that the problem of counterfeiting and piracy is real and damaging. It is no longer acceptable just to say no. The diversionary bill that they drafted, the OPEN Act, would do little to stop the illegal behavior and would not establish a workable framework, standards or remedies.
It has become clear that, at this point, neither SOPA, PIPA nor OPEN is a viable answer. We need to take a step back to seek fresh ideas and new approaches. The ''Copyright Alert'' program, a voluntary effort by the entertainment industries and leading Internet service providers to notify users whose accounts are being used for wrongful downloading over peer-to-peer networks, shows that respectful fact-based conversations can lead to progress.
We all share the goal of a safe and legal Internet. We need reason, not rhetoric, in discussing how to achieve it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE PIRACY (92%); INTERNET CRIME (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); ETHICS (77%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); EVIDENCE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



290 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Disney Profit Lifted by ESPN and Parks

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - Vacationers are opening their wallets more freely than they have in years at Disney's theme parks, adding to signs of growing consumer confidence and contributing to a climbing quarterly profit at the entertainment conglomerate.
The Walt Disney Company said Tuesday that operating income in its parks division, watched as a barometer of the broader economy, increased 18 percent in the most recent quarter, to $553 million. Revenue increased 10 percent, to $3.2 billion. Higher ticket prices contributed, but so did increased food and beverage spending at Walt Disney World in Florida and the Disneyland Resort in California.
Spending on hotel rooms increased 6 percent as Disney continued to reduce promotional rates put into place in recent years to counter the recession, according to James A. Rasulo, Disney's chief financial officer. He told analysts during a conference call that room bookings for the next quarter were running above levels of a year ago by a ''mid-single-digit'' percentage. 
Over all, Disney's results easily beat Wall Street estimates of 72 cents a share. For the quarter, which ended on Dec. 31, Disney reported net income of $1.5 billion, or 80 cents a share, up from $1.3 billion, or 68 cents a share, in the same quarter a year earlier. Revenue in the quarter, the first of Disney's fiscal year, inched up 1 percent, to $10.8 billion.
Disney's cable television channels, which include ESPN and Disney Channel, also contributed to the strong quarter. Operating income in this division, which Disney calls media networks, increased 12 percent, to $1.2 billion. Most of the growth, as usual, came from ESPN, driven by higher payments from cable providers for the right to carry programming from the sports behemoth.
Ad sales at ESPN were essentially flat. Although ESPN was able to increase its ad prices, totals were offset by decreased ratings tied to a shift in timing for the Rose Bowl and the Fiesta Bowl and fewer N.B.A. games. At the ABC broadcast network, ad sales declined because of weakness at local stations, although Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, said ABC had sold out its inventory for the Oscar show on Feb. 26.
(Asked by analysts to address reports on Monday that ABC News may join Univision to start an English-language cable news channel, Mr. Iger declined to comment beyond saying that his directive to ABC News is to ''look for and create some growth opportunities.'')
Offsetting strength in television and theme parks was weakness in other parts of Disney's empire. Interactive media, a business unit that includes video games and Disney.com, continued to vex the company, as losses widened to $28 million, from $13 million a year earlier. Revenue declined 20 percent, to $279 million. A lull in game releases was largely to blame, as the same quarter a year ago included sales of console games tied to ''Toy Story 3,'' ''Tron: Legacy'' and an original game called Epic Mickey.
Moviemaking was more of mixed picture. Revenue at Walt Disney Studios fell 16 percent, to $1.6 billion, in the quarter, holding down revenue gains for the broader company. A shift to fewer movies is one reason for the decline. In the recent quarter, Disney released one movie, ''The Muppets,'' which was a hit but not a blockbuster; a year earlier Disney released ''Tangled'' and ''Tron: Legacy'' in the same period.
Disney also blamed lower DVD sales, as Pixar's ''Cars 2'' sold fewer discs than did ''Toy Story 3'' a year ago.
But fewer theatrical releases - and thus sharply lower marketing, distribution and production costs - allowed the movie studio to report a 10 percent increase in operating income, to $413 million.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the recent quarter, Disney released one movie, ''The Muppets,'' which was a solid hit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT GARFIELD/WALT DISNEY PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (88%); CABLE TELEVISION (86%); SPORTS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); RECESSION (77%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TICKET SALES (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (69%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (64%); COMPUTER GAMES (62%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (94%); ESPN INC (92%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%); DISNEY INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP (58%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (94%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (94%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (94%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



291 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Energy Spurs a Recovery in Houston

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- In most cities, companies are holding tight, mothballing office expansions and delaying new hires. But not in Houston.
Powered by a rise in oil prices and a shale exploration boom, Houston is the first major metropolitan region to regain all the jobs it lost in the recession. The region added about 76,000 jobs last year, according to the Texas Workforce Commission, and is on pace to pick up tens of thousands more this year.
Oil and gas companies, from the biggest names like Exxon Mobil to the smallest independents, are dusting off plans to expand, relocate or put up new buildings. Last year, 1.8 million square feet of commercial space was vacuumed up, and real estate brokers expect the same or greater this year. ''No question, it's energy,'' said Jim Arket, a senior vice president at Grubb & Ellis in Houston. ''That's been the plus multiplier of Houston.'' 
The resurgence can be partly tied to the lifting in fall 2010 of the government moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico after the BP oil spill. The bulk of the gulf's drilling and profits comes from those offshore waters. Shale drilling has also bolstered balance sheets.
Nexen, a Canadian company, is moving its American headquarters from Plano, Tex., to Houston after it received permits to restart deepwater drilling in the gulf. ''Houston is quite clearly the place to be for a deepwater operator,'' said Grant Dreger, the vice president for finance and administration at Nexen Petroleum U.S.A. ''You have loads of deepwater talent, and it's home to the majority of our joint venture partners.''
The office sales market, often a harbinger of future conditions, has picked up. After bottoming at an average $58 a square foot in 2009, sales prices for office buildings climbed to an average $224 a square foot last year, the highest in the last 10 years, according to Real Capital Analytics, a research and consulting firm. That is still low compared with Manhattan, where sales prices average $470 a square foot, and Washington, at $476 a square foot.
A Canadian real estate investment trust made local history in December when it purchased the Hess Tower downtown for $442.5 million, or $524 per square foot -- the highest amount ever paid for a Houston office building. The 29-story tower, which was completed in June and had been leased to the Hess Corporation through 2026, was among the top 15 sales in the country last year, according to Real Capital Analytics.
''It matches up perfectly with what we're doing,'' said Thomas J. Hofstedter, chief executive of H&R REIT, the Toronto company that bought the Hess Tower. ''Our focus isn't energy; it's high-quality tenants and long-term credit leases.''
Speculative construction has perked up, too, with more than a million square feet under way at year-end. There was little new construction for the last few years because of abundant space.
After a year's delay, the Swedish construction giant Skanska broke ground in December on a 302,000-square-foot office tower, without a signed tenant. The 20-story tower, now scheduled to open in mid-2013, will cost $60 million to $90 million.
Skanska, which also bought a downtown office building and a suburban office campus last year, can afford to gamble because of its deep pockets. In four cities with strong leasing markets, Skanska said, it is investing at least $279 million in putting up office buildings without a tenant.
''Clearly, the story about the attraction to Texas is job growth,'' said Michael Mair, an executive vice president and regional manager at Skanska in Houston. ''Everyone is looking at Texas for opportunities, quality of life and affordability, and Houston is off the charts for every one of those items.''
With little construction and large blocks of space disappearing from the market, overall vacancy fell to 14.8 percent in the fourth quarter from 15.1 percent during the same period in 2010, according to Reis Inc. (Gains in the Class A market were affected by companies' giving back Class B and C space and expanding.) Shell's renewal of its lease for nearly 1.3 million square feet downtown was the biggest lease signed nationwide last year. BP added 305,000 square feet to accommodate employees relocating to Houston from outside Texas, among other things.
Small independents are also moving apace. Noble Energy, the first company to get a deepwater drilling permit in the gulf since the spill, is consolidating three offices into one with 400,000 square feet. An extra 100,000 square feet will accommodate future growth.
Still, Houston's office market has not entirely regained its prerecession levels. At $24.33 a square foot in the fourth quarter, average asking rent has barely budged from the end of 2008, according to Reis. Vacancy at the end of the fourth quarter was higher than the 12.7 percent in the same period in 2008. Mr. Arket said the commercial real estate market usually trailed the overall market by six to 12 months and that vacancy would fall further, barring another downturn.
Energy companies are also being drawn north of Houston to The Woodlands, a 28,000-acre development with office, retail, medical and residential space. Over the last year, companies like Newfield Exploration and Talisman Energy have expanded offices or relocated there to be closer to employees.
But the blockbuster deal came from Exxon Mobil, which began erecting a campus on 385 acres abutting The Woodlands for the bulk of its local employees. The move will consolidate 8,000 workers in one spot when the estimated four million-square-foot campus is finished in 2015.
The land was purchased from CDC Houston, a subsidiary of the Coventry Development Corporation, which began construction on its own neighboring development, Springwoods Village, shortly thereafter. The 1,800-acre development is expected to have more than eight million square feet of commercial space, 1.5 million square feet of retail and hotel space and 5,000 residences.
''Obviously, Exxon's selection of the land really validates the location,'' said Keith Simon, a senior vice president and director of development at CDC Houston.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Hess Tower, left, in downtown Houston sold in December for $442.5 million, a local record. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (75%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (74%); OIL SPILLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); HISTORY (61%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); JOINT VENTURES (50%)

COMPANY: NEXEN INC (85%); HESS CORP (81%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (56%)

TICKER: NXY (TSX) (85%); NXY (NYSE) (85%); HES (NYSE) (81%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



292 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Increased In December

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Americans accelerated their borrowing in December for the second straight month, the Federal Reserve said Tuesday, accumulating more credit card debt and taking out loans to buy cars and attend school. 
Consumer borrowing rose by $19.3 billion in December after a $20.4 billion gain in November, the agency said. The two increases were the biggest monthly gains in a decade.
Total consumer borrowing is now at a seasonally adjusted $2.5 trillion. That nearly matches the level before the recession, and is up 4.4 percent from the September 2010 postrecession low.
The increase in borrowing could be a sign that Americans were more confident in the economy. But consumers were also borrowing more when their wages have not kept pace with inflation.
The outlook for hiring has improved, which could help increase consumer spending.
In January, companies had a net gain of 243,000 jobs, and the unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent, the lowest in three years.
Still, without higher pay, many people could pull back further on spending. Consumer spending was flat in December, and the savings rate rose. Consumer spending is important because it accounts for 70 percent of economic activity.
Americans borrowed more on credit cards in December, probably to buy holiday gifts. A measure of that debt increased by $2.8 billion.
But the bulk of December's increase was because consumers took out more auto loans and student loans. The category that includes both rose by $16.6 billion.
Ellen Zentner, an economist at Nomura Securities in New York, said that half the gain in that category came from higher student loans. That suggests the weak economy is persuading more people to return to school.
She said the gains in credit card debt were coming from very low levels.
The Federal Reserve's borrowing report covers auto loans, student loans and credit cards. It excludes mortgages, home equity loans and other loans tied to real estate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER LENDING (92%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); RECESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



293 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Talks Stall on How to Pay for Extending Payroll Tax Cut

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER and JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Any hope for a fast and quiet resolution to the Congressional battle over a payroll tax cut seemed to dim Tuesday as members of a bipartisan negotiating committee clashed over how to pay for the extension, and Senate Democrats suggested that they would come up with their own bill to get the matter resolved.
Republicans became increasingly frustrated as Democrats shooed away one Republican proposal after the next, like a bride-to-be dismissing a long line of potential wedding gowns as too ugly. Democratic negotiators rejected $70 billion worth of spending cuts the House wanted to use to offset the cost of the package, including a one-year pay freeze for federal workers, a measure to raise Medicare premiums on some people and a proposal that would allow the government to claw back some subsidies for the purchase of health insurance under the new health care law. 
Democrats, smelling a political victory, seemed uninterested in speeding along the process. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, instead vowed to put forward his own bill if the negotiators could not reach a deal.
His new proposal would require those earning over $1 million a year to contribute to the nearly $200 billion cost of extending a payroll tax cut to nearly every working American, renewing unemployment benefits into the next year, preventing a sharp drop in reimbursement fees for doctors who accept Medicare and resurrecting a variety of other routine business tax cuts. But Senate Democrats would do it in a form other than a simple surcharge on income that they have previously offered -- and that has failed, multiple times, to win the 60 votes necessary for passage.
''Everything comes back down to more taxes for Democrats,'' said a visibly annoyed Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the lead Senate Republican negotiator for the committee charged with coming up with a deal. ''And I'm beginning to ask whether there is a serious effort by Democrats to extend the payroll tax cut.''
The so-called conference committee was formed at the end of last year to come up with a 10-month extension of the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits. Republicans and Democrats had been unable to come up with a long-term plan and settled on a two-month extension instead. Many Republicans opposed the extension of the tax cut -- and some still do -- because they believe it harms the Social Security fund.
The expiration of the 2011 two-percentage-point cut to the payroll tax would raise taxes on about 160 million workers. Three million people could lose their jobless benefits if unemployment insurance is not renewed; the tax cut and benefits expire March 1.
After a protracted fight over the jobless benefits divided Republicans and hurt them in the court of public opinion, Democrats seem to have concluded that they have everything to gain by resisting Republican proposals.
If the negotiators cannot come to an agreement, the Democrats reason, Republicans will get blamed, and a deal that is paid for with Democratic policies would be even better. Among things Democrats are considering offering would be ending the exclusion of $85,000 in taxable income permitted for Americans who work for American-based multinational companies abroad and earn over $1 million.
''I think it's safe to say that Democrats are more interested in scoring political points than in scoring a tax cut that millions of middle-class Americans are counting on,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.
Mr. Reid said the fault rested with Republicans, who he suggested were offering nonstarters in their negotiations as a way of masking the fact that many in their party still disliked the tax cut. ''We've seen this movie before,'' he said. ''I hope Republicans come to their senses, and soon.''
Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican who is leading the committee, suggested Tuesday that the public sniping among colleagues was impeding the process. ''I don't think the comments from either side of leadership, from either body, are particularly helpful,'' he said.
But many Republicans seemed to fear that the battle had already been lost. Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, said the Republicans should never have accepted the payroll tax cut in 2010 when President Obama pushed it as a condition for extending President George W. Bush's expiring tax cuts. ''Now Republicans have our backs against the wall,'' Mr. DeMint said. ''We can't win the argument. We're going to have to go on to something else.''
With Republicans divided over how hard a line to take, moving on may not be possible. Congress is to take a weeklong break starting Presidents' Day, leaving only three days to complete a deal after lawmakers return. Already, the idea of another two-month extension is gaining currency, to the dread of Republican leaders.
''There's a sense of urgency about this,'' said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Republican leadership. ''I mean, this is a couple of weeks away, and I hope we don't end up with this huge meltdown at the end and another effort to extend it for two months.''
Behind the scenes, both sides say there has been some progress. Negotiators have resolved minor issues on unemployment insurance, and Senate negotiators this week will offer proposals to counter House Republicans on the three most contentious unemployment issues: how long benefits should be extended, whether to include a requirement that the unemployed who did not graduate from high school are working toward a degree, and whether states should be allowed to require drug screening of unemployment beneficiaries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Congressional negotiating group discussing on Tuesday how to pay for an extension of a payroll tax cut and jobless benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%); JON KYL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



294 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: From Ivy Halls to the Garden, Surprise Star Jolts the N.B.A.

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK; Michael Luo contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York's newest basketball sensation spends most nights on a couch in a one-bedroom apartment on the Lower East Side. The housing choice is understandable once you get to know Jeremy Lin.
He is a Harvard graduate playing in the National Basketball Association. He is an Asian-American in a league devoid of them, which makes him doubly anomalous. No team drafted Lin in 2010. Two teams cut him in December, before the Knicks picked him up.
His contract, potentially worth nearly $800,000, was not even guaranteed until Tuesday afternoon. So for the past six weeks, Lin, 23, has been sleeping in his brother Josh's living room, waiting for clarity and career security.
''He has his own couch,'' Josh Lin, a New York University dental student, said cheerfully. 
He should be able to reclaim his living room soon enough.
Jeremy Lin's utterly distinctive, mostly transient N.B.A. existence has taken a rather sudden turn over the past few days.
On Saturday night, Lin came off the bench and powered the Knicks to a 99-92 victory over the Nets at Madison Square Garden, scoring a career-best 25 points with 7 assists. Two nights later, he made his first N.B.A. start and produced 28 points and 8 assists in a 99-88 win over the Utah Jazz.
Knicks fans now serenade Lin with chants of ''Je-re-my!'' and ''M.V.P.!'' while the franchise uses his likeness to sell tickets and teammates and coaches gush with praise.
With every game, every precision pass and every clever drive to the basket, Lin is raising expectations, altering the Knicks' fate and redefining the word ''unlikely.'' On Twitter, fans and basketball pundits are using another term to describe the phenomenon: ''Linsanity.''
Two weeks ago, the 6-foot-3 Lin was not even part of the Knicks' point-guard rotation, despite their lack of talent at the position. He played sparingly in a few games, showing just enough promise to keep getting another look-- a few more minutes, another quarter. But there was never any hint of what was to come.
With 25 points Saturday, Lin set the N.B.A. scoring record for a player from Harvard. For an encore, he became the first player in more than 30 years to record at least 28 points and 8 assists in his first N.B.A. start. The last to do so was Isiah Thomas, the Detroit Pistons' Hall of Fame point guard, in October 1981.
''I don't think anyone, including myself, saw this coming,'' Lin said after the game Monday.
That is, essentially, the story of Lin's career. He was cut in December by the Golden State Warriors, his hometown team, after one season in which he rarely left the bench. The Warriors were intrigued enough to sign him but not enough to keep him. The Houston Rockets gave Lin a quick look and cut him.
When the Knicks claimed Lin off waivers Dec. 27, he was fourth on the depth chart at point guard. Now he is No. 1, continuing a long pattern of low expectations and surprising results.
Lin received no college scholarship offers, despite leading his Palo Alto High School team to a 32-1 record and the California championship. At Harvard, he was twice named to the all-Ivy League first team and delivered a signature 30-point performance against 12th-ranked Connecticut.
At draft time, in June 2010, Lin was again overlooked. N.B.A. teams had their doubts -- about his defense, about his jump shot, about his ability to keep up with the league's elite athletes.
They were the kind of concerns scouts have every year about dozens of prospects, from all sorts of programs and all sorts of backgrounds. Yet there was no escaping Lin's unusual pedigree and the subtle sense that he did not fit a profile.
Lin is the N.B.A.'s first American-born player of Taiwanese or Chinese descent and only the fourth Asian-American in league history. His parents, Shirley and Gie-Ming, who are engineers, emigrated from Taiwan to the United States in the 1970s.
''I think people are surprised, because people don't know him, or maybe he's a pioneer,'' Shirley Lin said. ''There's not that many Harvard players, not that many Asian-Americans. He's just kind of like underdog. But he works hard.''
The qualities that make Lin unique, and seemingly held him back, are now the qualities that make him a sensation. Knicks fans were clamoring for Lin before he threw his first pass at the Garden. They roar louder for his shifty layups in traffic than they do for Carmelo Anthony's.
Lin is the proud underdog defying scouts, stunning opposing defenders and forcing reassessments with every daring burst into the lane. He is more than a novelty now, but also more than just an underrated player finding success.
Social networks lighted up Saturday night and again Monday with excited chatter about Lin, much of it from Asian-American fans who have been following him for years.
''It's just a real point of pride, the success he is having,'' said Carl Park, a 35-year-old graduate student in Chicago and a first-generation Korean-American.
Park grew up a Milwaukee Bucks fan, but he roots for Lin wherever he plays.
''It represents a step for the Asian-American community as it becomes part of American culture more broadly,'' Park said.
To illustrate his point, Park posted a humorous ''Timeline for what Asian-Americans get called in pickup basketball'' on his Facebook page. In 1980, it was ''Bruce'' (as in Lee). In 1995, ''Jackie Chan.'' In 2000, ''Yao,'' for Yao Ming.
In 2012, ''Jeremy.''
The first examples came from Park's own experience as a recreational player. The last, he hopes to hear.
''It's nice there's been some progress that way,'' Park said, ''in that younger guys might actually get called the name of an actual basketball player.''
Yet the Lin phenomenon transcends race or nationality. He resonates with devout Christians, because he speaks openly of his faith, a sort of Taiwanese Tim Tebow. He taps into the passions of Harvard alumni, Ivy Leaguers, New Yorkers and anyone anywhere who loves an underdog.
''Jeremy Lin'' was a top trending topic on Twitter on Sunday, in New York and in San Francisco. On Monday, he picked up nearly 10,000 followers on his account, @JLin7. On Tuesday, a Lin-themed rap appeared on YouTube.
No demographic seems to love him as much as Knicks fans, who are suddenly counting on Lin to revive their flagging season. The stars, Anthony and Amar'e Stoudemire, have struggled. The presumed starting point guard, Baron Davis, is recovering from a back injury. The Knicks have lost 15 of their first 25 games, dousing their championship hopes.
Another setback came Tuesday, when the Knicks announced that Anthony would miss up to two weeks because of a groin injury.
On Twitter, the fan response came swiftly: ''As long as we have Jeremy Lin, we'll be fine,'' wrote @CareyWilbur.
It is perhaps too much to ask the undrafted player from Harvard to save the season. It seems more likely that Lin, who has a degree in economics, will ultimately settle into a more modest nightly role.
But the uncertainty is over. Lin has cemented himself as a credible N.B.A. player, not a novelty act. On Tuesday, his contract became guaranteed for the season. The Knicks are keeping him. It seems safe to go apartment hunting.
''I think he's looking forward to it,'' Josh Lin said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeremy Lin was the Knicks' No. 4 point guard when he signed in December, but now he is starting and carrying fans' hopes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS TROTMAN/GETTY IMAGES)
 Lin surrounded by family while at Harvard, where he was twice an all-Ivy League player. Still, no N.B.A. team drafted him. (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); NEW JERSEY NETS (55%); UTAH JAZZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



295 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: With Tax Deal, City Will Keep FreshDirect

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The battle over whether the Giants belong to New York or New Jersey may rage eternally, but for now New York has scored a decisive victory in the War for Fresh Direct. 
Fending off a $100 million package of tax breaks, land and other subsidies dangled in front of Fresh Direct like so many jumbo organic carrots by the New Jersey governor, Chris Christie, New York officials announced Tuesday that Fresh Direct, based in Queens, will build and move to a 500,000-square-foot building in the Bronx.
But it is costing New York quite a bit keep the online grocer, which has outgrown its Long Island City headquarters, on this side of the Hudson. The total value of the incentives from the city, the state and the Bronx tops $120 million, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office said in a news release. That includes $74 million in city tax exemptions, $18.5 million in state tax credits, and $18 million in cash, split between city and state, to get the project rolling. The move was reported Monday night by The Daily News.
The benefit of this investment, the city said, is the retention of 2,000 existing jobs, the creation of 1,000 new jobs and an estimated overall economic impact to the city alone of nearly $255 million.
''Making sure that companies like Fresh Direct can grow and invest in New York City is a key part of our strategy to rebuild and diversify our economy,'' the mayor said in a statement.
Fresh Direct's chief executive officer, Jason Ackerman, said, ''A new state-of-the-art facility at the Harlem River Yard in the Bronx would allow us to operate more efficiently, maintain our relationships with New York State vendors, local farmers and purveyors and continue our long track record of growth and job creation in New York.''
Fresh Direct has been based in Queens, where it received a tax break from the city, for the past decade. In recent months, the company had played New Jersey against New York in its search for a new headquarters and truck depot.
After Governor Christie offered the company a $100 million package to move to Jersey City, state and city officials in New York matched the offer.
Still, some advocacy groups called the arrangement too generous.
Bettina Damiani, project director of Good Jobs New York, said the city was not even requiring Fresh Direct to hire Bronx residents or to move goods by rail, though the site is to be located in a neighborhood with a high rate of asthma.
''Once again, a lot of city money is going into the Bronx without any guarantees that folks in the Bronx will benefit,'' she said. ''And the process stinks.''
Seth Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, defended the deal, saying New York needed ''a mix of employment opportunities.''
''This is a significant investment by a growing industrial business,'' Mr. Pinsky said. ''We're very excited to see them expand.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CITIES (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERNET RETAILING (55%); ASTHMA (50%)

COMPANY: FRESHDIRECT LLC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



296 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Running Connecticut Like a Mayor, Not a King

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
HARTFORD -- ''Let's play a game,'' says Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, an unexpected suggestion from someone whom no one describes as a fun and games kind of guy. But then comes the game.
''Name a governor of New York since Al Smith who hasn't been the emperor of New York,'' he says, part of a conversation about governing and communication styles. He runs briskly through a long list of storied names including Roosevelt, Lehman, Dewey, Harriman, Rockefeller, Cuomo the Elder and Cuomo the Younger. ''New York likes to have emperor governors. That doesn't fly in Connecticut.''
No one has yet suggested that Mr. Malloy, who gives his second State of the State address as governor on Wednesday, is auditioning for the role of emperor of Connecticut. A more common description is that he sees himself as the mayor of Connecticut, a no-nonsense blur of activity trying to fill every pothole and overhaul the state's budget at the same time.
But after a tumultuous first year in office, Mr. Malloy finds himself in the somewhat imperial position of having gotten virtually everything he wanted. The question now is just what those victories add up to. 
Mr. Malloy pushed through what by some measures was the largest increase in taxes in Connecticut's history while governors elsewhere were falling over one another to cut them. He reached a contentious cost-saving agreement with unions after a standoff that almost scuttled his budget, and he made an audacious $1.1 billion bet on building a world-class bioscience industry in a state that had no job growth for 22 years. He skittered from hurricane power loss to snowstorm power loss and from Davos, Switzerland (aides say he was invited for the World Economic Forum, and the goal was networking with corporate chief executives), to Afghanistan (a Pentagon-sponsored trip that allowed governors to see where their citizens were sent to fight) to 17 campaign-style town hall meetings to sell his budget.
To Mr. Malloy, Connecticut's first Democratic governor in 20 years, the results are clear.
''We took the largest per-capita deficit in the nation, and we wrestled it to the ground by cutting expenses, by increasing revenue and by restacking our relationship with our employees, which we did at the negotiating table,'' he said at his office at the statehouse. ''There's no other state that accomplished that.''
Not everyone is so impressed. The rating agency Moody's, which speaks a language familiar to Connecticut's many financially inclined residents, downgraded the state's debt last month, citing the high debt accumulated over years of borrowing as well as the depletion of the state's ''rainy day fund.''
The General Assembly's nonpartisan Office of Fiscal Analysis reported the state had a $145 million deficit in January, when the Malloy administration was projecting surpluses. And critics, not limited to Republican lawmakers, have raised questions about how real his projected cost savings, including from his agreement with the unions, really are.
Mr. Malloy would like to pivot to other issues, particularly education. But everyone agrees that after the budget drama of the last year, he needs to do everything possible to avoid a rerun.
''The budget is everything to Malloy,'' said Bill Curry, a former Democratic candidate for governor who now writes on politics. ''The last thing you want is a sequel to a fiscal crisis.''
Mr. Malloy made himself into something of a national figure in his first year, no small trick in a small state like Connecticut, by carving out a niche as a contrarian, unapologetic Democrat during an antigovernment, antitax wave.
So, for instance, there he was at a largely deserted statehouse on Martin Luther King's Birthday. At a time when Republican governors and legislatures around the country, citing accusations of voter fraud, were passing election measures that Democrats contend will suppress minority turnout, Mr. Malloy was advocating ways to make voting easier, including Web-based voter registration, Election Day registration and larger penalties on efforts to intimidate or impede voters.
''Connecticut continues to be different than other states,'' Mr. Malloy said at a news conference that morning. ''It is another road not taken.''
In the state, his governing style is viewed as one part traditional Democratic religion, one part managerial focus honed by 14 years as mayor of Stamford, and many parts manic energy and seven-day-a-week scheduling that stands in stark contrast to recent predecessors, particularly M. Jodi Rell, the popular but low-key Republican he followed.
He governed with a relentless and competitive work ethic rather than by winning any charm offensives. Colin McEnroe, a radio and print journalist who has covered Connecticut governors going back to Ella T. Grasso in 1979, said Mr. Malloy, more than any of the earlier governors, was ''truly interested in making government work and wanting to do that personally.'' Still, he said, ''Malloy doesn't have one amino acid of Bill Clinton's charm DNA, and maybe he pays a big price for that.''
Even critics say he had extraordinary success at getting things done last year, but Republicans say it came at a steep price; they contend that the union agreement produced phantom savings and its no-layoff provision will severely limit the state in the future, that the job-growth initiatives cost millions that will not be recouped, and that the budget numbers do not hold up.
''My hat's off to him from a political point of view,'' said Chris Healy, former chairman of the state Republican Party and now a political consultant. ''But at some point this fairy tale has to end. He either has to go back to the legislature with real budget cuts in real time or raise taxes. That's the only way he can do it.''
Mr. Malloy and his aides have said they are prepared to make spending cuts as needed and they have pushed back at the criticism, sometimes with startling intensity. After the downgrade by Moody's, the governor's budget chief, Ben Barnes, shot back that Moody's was ''wrong'' in its analysis and its ratings change.
''Connecticut has done all the right things to shore up our finances,'' Mr. Barnes said, ''and Moody's has responded with a downgrade intended to satisfy their internal corporate need to deflect attention from their historic lack of credibility.''
Meanwhile, he is rolling out education proposals like heavy artillery and, as with the budget battle last year, seems to relish the magnitude of the problem.
''No one can say they have the largest achievement gap in the country except us,'' he said, referring to the gap between the state's largely white suburban students and its largely minority urban ones. ''That's unacceptable, and someone has to hold a mirror up and say, 'Look, Connecticut, this is unacceptable.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, right, in the State Capitol this week. Mr. Malloy, a Democrat, will present his second State of the State address on Wednesday.
 Mr. Malloy with, above, Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman and Stefan Pryor, his education commissioner. Below, meeting with Michael Caplet, the deputy director of intergovernmental affairs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (66%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (62%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWITZERLAND (79%); AFGHANISTAN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



297 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Wendell Berry to Give Jefferson Lecture

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
The farmer-writer Wendell Berry will deliver the 41st annual Jefferson Lecture in the Humanities, the National Endowment for the Arts announced on Monday. The lecture, to be given on April 23 at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, is considered the federal government's most prestigious honor for intellectual achievement in the humanities. 
Since his first novel, ''Nathan Coulter,'' was published in 1960, Mr. Berry, who farms 125 acres near Port Royal, Ky., with his wife, Tanya Berry, has established himself as a principled and sometimes cantankerous presence in American letters, as known for his advocacy for traditional agriculture and the virtues of rural life and small-scale community as for his more than 40 books of fiction, poetry and essays. He has been an outspoken critic not just of industrialized farming but of industrialized writing, once declaring that writing on a computer instead of his old Royal typewriter would make his work dependent on strip-mined coal. ''I do not see that computers are bringing us one step nearer to anything that does matter to me: peace, economic justice, ecological health, political honesty, family and community stability, good work,'' he wrote in a 1987 essay.
Mr. Berry, 77, has also been a particularly fierce critic of mountaintop-removal mining. In 2009 withdrew his donation of his personal papers from the University of Kentucky after the university decided to name a basketball players' dormitory the Wildcat Coal Lodge, in honor of a coal company that had helped raise money for the building.
Tickets to the Jefferson lecture are free and can be requested online.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (91%); WRITERS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); COAL MINING (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); POETRY (73%); SURFACE MINING (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); FAMILY (69%); BASKETBALL (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (84%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



298 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Possible Deal on Greek Debt Soothes Investors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks resumed their slow but steady climb Tuesday as Greece appeared close to announcing a deal with creditors to cut its debt. The Dow Jones industrial average ended at its highest level since May 2008.
Stock indexes rose after a report that Greece and the investors who bought its government bonds were close to a deal to reduce what Greece owed. Greece's crushing debt has unnerved financial markets around the world for two years.
''Just some kind of optimism overseas is going to be positive, considering many didn't think anything was going to come to fruition,'' said Stephen J. Carl, head equity trader at the Williams Capital Group. 
A report that job openings soared to the highest level in almost three years in December also helped the United States market.
The Dow rose 33.07 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 12,878.20. It has not closed higher since May 19, 2008, four months before the financial crisis. The Dow is about 10 percent below its all-time high.
The average fell 17 points to start the week. On Tuesday, it was down as much as 62 points in the first half-hour of trading.
McDonald's rose 1.4 percent, best among the 30 stocks in the Dow, to $100.91, close to its 52-week high. Coca-Cola rose 0.8 percent after it reported better profits than analysts were expecting.
In other trading, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.72 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,347.05. The Nasdaq composite index rose 2.09 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 2,904.08. The Nasdaq is about a point shy of its best close since December 2000.
The increase in United States job openings was the latest sign that the job market is improving. The Dow climbed 156 points Friday after the government reported that the United States unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent in January, the lowest in almost three years.
Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at the RDM Financial Group in Westport, Conn., said that while investors were becoming more optimistic about the economy, there were still signs that they were allocating money cautiously.
The utilities sector was the best performer in the S.& P. 500, indicating that investors were hanging on to stocks they considered to be relatively safe.
In the bond market, the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 21/32, to 100 7/32, and the yield rose to 1.98 percent from 1.90 percent late Monday. Demand for bonds waned as investors became more confident that Greece would reach a deal. A relatively weak auction of three-year Treasury notes also pushed bond prices lower.
The euro rose to a two-year high against the dollar as worries eased about Greece's and Europe's debt problems. The euro rose 1.4 cents against the dollar to $1.33 in afternoon trading.
Among the stocks making big moves in the United States, Yum Brands, which owns Taco Bell and KFC, rose 2.6 percent. Its income surged 30 percent in the fourth quarter because of strong growth overseas and a turnaround in its Pizza Hut business in the United States.
Emerson Electric lost 2.7 percent after the manufacturing and technology company said its quarterly profit fell 23 percent. It said costs rose and sales took a hit from flooding in Thailand.
Becton, Dickinson, a medical technology company, fell 3.8 percent. Its profit fell 17 percent in the latest quarter because of higher costs for raw materials and other expenses. The company also cut its 2012 earnings forecast.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); AUCTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (56%); COCA-COLA CO (54%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



299 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Mining Merger Is Struck, but Some Balk

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
8:02 p.m. Updated
LONDON - Glencore International, the largest commodities trading company in the world, said on Tuesday that it would buy the remaining stake in the mining company Xstrata that it did not already own, in a long-anticipated deal that would create a mining giant with a market value of nearly $90 billion.
As commodity prices have soared, the mining industry has quickly consolidated, with leading players looking to capitalize on the rising demand in developing countries like China. In 2011, mining companies announced $168.6 billion of acquisitions, a 26 percent increase over the previous year, according to data from Dealogic. 
By merging with Xstrata, Glencore would enhance its position in emerging markets like Africa, Kazakhstan and South America. The company, to be renamed Glencore Xstrata International, would be the fourth-largest diversified mining company in the world, with revenue of $209 billion and pretax profit of $16 billion, based on 2011 figures.
''The proposed deal combines Xstrata's high-margin mining operations with Glencore's low-margin sales and marketing business,'' said Charles Cooper, a mining analyst at Oriel Securities in London. ''The new company can perform better as a whole group than as separate entities.''
On Tuesday, Xstrata's share price fell 4.9 percent, while stock in Glencore fell 3.8 percent.
Under the terms of the deal, Glencore, which holds 34 percent of Xstrata, would pay about $41 billion for the remaining stake, valuing the company at nearly $62 billion. The offer represents a 15 percent premium on Xstrata's closing share price on Feb. 1.
On Tuesday, major investors in Xstrata balked at the acquisition, looking for Glencore to sweeten the offer.
Richard Buxton, head of British equities at the asset manager Schroders, planned to vote against the deal, according to a company spokeswoman, Georgina Robertson; the firm owns roughly 1.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data.
David Cumming, head of equities at the British asset manager Standard Life Investments, said the proposed takeover undervalued Xstrata's assets and its future earnings potential. ''It is our intention to vote against the deal unless the merger terms for Xstrata shareholders are materially improved,'' Mr. Cumming said in a statement. His firm holds about 2 percent of Xstrata stock.
The companies need the support of at least 75 percent of their individual shareholders to complete the transaction.
The merger must also pass regulatory muster in various regions, including the European Union, China and the United States. Many Xstrata and Glencore customers are based in China, so local authorities are likely to take a close look at whether it would lead to price increases for domestic companies, including energy producers and manufacturers.
Officials have been especially sensitive to mining mergers, as the number of players has shrunk in recent years. In 2009, the global miner Rio Tinto had to walk away from a proposed $19.5 billion linkup with Chinalco of China, a state-owned resources company, after regulators in Australia balked at the deal.
Xstrata and Glencore said there were few overlaps with their companies' existing operations that could run afoul of antitrust laws. Mick Davis, Xstrata's chief executive, told investors on Tuesday that the deal should be completed by the end of the third quarter.
The union of Glencore and Xstrata has been expected for some time. Last year, Glencore raised $10 billion through an initial public offering, saying that it planned to use some of the cash to expand through acquisitions.
The deal would also bring together two businesses that split about a decade ago. Xstrata became a publicly listed company in 2002 after it acquired the Australian and South African coal assets of Glencore. In February 2011, Xstrata's chief, Mr. Davis, called it ''unsustainable in the longer term'' to have the two companies listed separately.
Like many mining mergers, Glencore and Xstrata are betting on growth and savings, as they look to make the marriage work. The companies, both of which have benefited from increasing demand from emerging economies, expect their combined annual growth to reach 11 percent over the next five years, compared with the industry average of 7 percent, according to a company statement. They also hope to wring out annual cost savings of at least of $500 million after 2012.
''A merger between Glencore and Xstrata offers a unique opportunity to create a new business model in our industry to respond to a changing environment,'' Mr. Davis told analysts on Tuesday. ''Increased scale and diversity will improve our risk profile, enhance access to capital markets and allow us to participate in industry consolidation.''
Mr. Davis would become the chief executive of the combined company. Ivan Glasenberg, Glencore's current chief executive, would become deputy chief executive of the new company, while Xstrata's chairman, John Bond, would be the chairman of the proposed Glencore Xstrata.
Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and the law firm Linklaters advised Glencore on the deal. Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Nomura advised Xstrata.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The copper and lead mining and smelting operations at the mine owned by Xstrata in Mount Isa in Queensland, Australia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK ATLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (92%); MERGERS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (92%); XSTRATA PLC (92%); RIO TINTO GROUP (58%)

TICKER: GLEN (LSE) (92%); 0805 (HKSE) (92%); XTAN (SWX) (92%); XTA (LSE) (92%); RIOS (BRU) (58%); RIO (NYSE) (58%); RIO (LSE) (58%); RIO (ASX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (92%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA (79%) CHINA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); AFRICA (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



300 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Bruised Feelings or No, Chairman Applies Jolt To Housing Authority

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
Soon after he became chairman of New York City's public housing agency, John B. Rhea took his seat at a public meeting of its board and quickly began peppering one of his directors with questions. Tongue-tied, the director looked for help from a colleague, who blanched and conceded that he did not know the answers, either.
The agency's board meetings had long been sluggish affairs, but Mr. Rhea was not going to tolerate the old ways, it seemed, even if that meant bruised feelings.
Mr. Rhea, 46, a former banking executive with no prior housing experience, has turned into a provocative figure since he was installed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2009. He has been credited with shaking up the bureaucracy and securing desperately needed federal grants. 
But Mr. Rhea (pronounced REE-ah) has also touched off an exodus of seasoned senior officials, stirred criticism over his hiring of expensive consultants and developed a reputation for being brusque or worse.
At stake is the future of the New York City Housing Authority, which is by far the largest local housing agency in the country and is responsible for sheltering 600,000 people. New York's has long been considered relatively well run, especially when compared to its counterparts in other major cities, which have often faced scandals over mismanagement, corruption and other malfeasance.
But the city's Housing Authority faces the same challenges afflicting housing agencies nationwide: deep financing shortfalls and decades-old buildings in varying states of disrepair. In New York, the authority has a $50 million operating deficit and a backlog of capital projects and other repairs that is estimated to cost $7 billion to address.
In an interview, Mr. Rhea, who has a trim goatee and a piercing stare, said he made clear to staff members from his first weeks on the job that he would undertake stark changes.
''The mayor gave me a mandate to fix the finances, to make Nycha less insular and more cooperative and partner-oriented with its sister agencies and with other entities across the city, and to improve the quality of life for residents,'' Mr. Rhea said, referring to the agency by its acronym. ''That's not a mandate for 'keep doing what you're doing.' That's a mandate for transformation and change.''
Though the job is his first in public service, Mr. Rhea said he saw it, in part, as a return to his roots. He grew up in Detroit in what he described as a ''very socially conscious and politically involved household,'' where, he said, ''much has been given and much has been required.''
After graduating from Wesleyan University, where he studied government, philosophy and economics and played football, he was hired by Paine Webber, and spent part of his earnings putting his brother through college. He thrived in banking -- ''I was incredibly Type A and motivated and wanted to succeed in everything I did,'' he said -- and then went to Harvard Business School.
He worked for a series of investment banks and consulting groups before being hired as a managing director of investment banking for Lehman Brothers in New York.
After Lehman's bankruptcy, Mr. Rhea was considering a position in the Obama administration -- he declined to disclose which position, saying only that it required Senate confirmation -- when Bloomberg aides approached him with the idea of becoming chairman of the Housing Authority. At first, he resisted, he said.
''I said, 'I'm not the right guy,' '' he said. ''But the mayor sometimes picks what he believes are strong athletes.''
The agency was in turmoil. Tino Hernandez, the longtime chairman, resigned in 2008 after controversies arose over the safety and maintenance of elevators in public housing; three months earlier, a 5-year-old boy had plummeted to his death.
From the start, several City Council members questioned Mr. Rhea's lack of experience. But in 2010, Mr. Rhea secured federal stimulus money that would pay the agency upward of $65 million a year and cover operating costs for 21 developments.
The deal, called ''federalization,'' was initially deemed impossible to pull off by the authority's staff.
City officials and housing advocates said they were impressed.
''Federalization was a stroke of real talent,'' said David Jones, president of the Community Service Society of New York, a nonprofit antipoverty group. ''I think he was uniquely able to take that on because of his background. I really doubt whether his predecessors would have been able to wend their way through.''
Mr. Rhea also helped secure private dollars and nonprofit resources for the agency, selling off parcels for low-income and mixed-income buildings, and drawing in schools and retail shops to create a stream of rental income.
He has said he wants the agency to sell air rights to private developers to pay for the rehabilitation of existing buildings, a plan that has alarmed some tenants' groups, which question whether that is a kind of shadow privatization.
Mr. Rhea said the proposal was needed to keep the agency afloat. Still, his plans and personality have roiled the agency.
Mr. Rhea raised eyebrows after the agency awarded a $10 million contract to one of his former employers, the Boston Consulting Group, last year to create a blueprint to guide the authority to surer financial footing. He said outside eyes were needed to help the agency determine where pinched resources should go, and how to trim administrative costs.
Meanwhile, the authority continues to suffer management turmoil.
In 2009, it issued thousands more rental assistance vouchers than it had money for, despite warnings from federal officials, and later said that up to 10,000 low-income families could lose their vouchers as a result. Federal money later arrived, but the incident was seen by housing experts as a misstep.
Last year, the authority computerized its system for the vouchers, part of the program known as Section 8. In the process, documents went missing, scores of people wrongly received termination notices, and landlords stopped receiving payments.
Judith Goldiner, a head lawyer at the Legal Aid Society, said she voiced her concerns about the termination notices to Mr. Rhea early last year during a chance meeting in Albany, only to be rebuffed.
''He started telling me I was wrong, no one was being hurt, everybody got it wrong, and he stormed off,'' she said. ''Then I got taken aside by his handlers, who said, 'We know there's a big problem and we're working on it.' ''
Asked about the episode, Mr. Rhea said, ''It is not factual,'' adding that the system was being ''stabilized.''
But in a rare agreement, both Legal Aid and several landlords sued the authority over suspended payments.
By December, more than a dozen top executives had left or taken early retirement since Mr. Rhea took over.
Douglas Apple, a longtime general manager, left for another government agency, and his replacement, Michael Kelly, who had run housing authorities in San Francisco and Washington, left to run the Philadelphia Housing Authority after barely a year on the job.
In an interview, Mr. Kelly said that the Philadelphia opportunity was too good to pass up, and that Mr. Rhea was exactly what the agency needed.
''If I was in that chairman role, I would probably be forced to take the same kind of radical approach,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''John represented a needed and timely wake-up call for its long-term survival.''
But the departures have stirred concerns.
''It's problematic to have that much experience walking out the door,'' said Councilwoman Rosie Mendez, a Manhattan Democrat who is chairwoman of the Committee on Public Housing. ''What the Housing Authority needed is someone with housing background, not banking.''
Mr. Rhea said that the turnover was to be expected and that he had assembled a ''dream team world-class bench,'' including a dozen graduates from top universities whom he called his ''Green Berets.''
''My goal is to consistently upgrade the talent at Nycha -- I want it to be substantially stronger when, you know, I leave here than when I arrived,'' he said. ''We have a huge influx of talent relative to the talent that's left.''
Correction: February 11, 2012, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Wednesday about the chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, John B. Rhea, who took the reins in 2009, misidentified the party that joined Legal Aid in a suit against the authority over suspended payments for housing vouchers. The Rent Stabilization Association, which represents landlords, did not sue the authority; the plaintiffs were several landlords and Legal Aid.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Wednesday about the chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, John B. Rhea, who took the reins in 2009, misidentified the party that joined Legal Aid in a suit against the authority over suspended payments for housing vouchers. The Rent Stabilization Association, which represents landlords, did not sue the authority; the plaintiffs were several landlords and Legal Aid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The mayor gave me a mandate to fix the finances,'' John B. Rhea said of his leadership of the New York City Housing Authority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CORRUPTION (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); MISCONDUCT (67%); SCANDALS (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



301 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
Because of an editing error, the Gotham column on Tuesday, about the burdens of the housing crisis in a Queens neighborhood, described incorrectly the number of mortgages in default or delinquent last year, according to the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project. While there were indeed 345,000 such mortgages, they were for homes throughout New York State, not just in New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



302 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Another Twist for G.O.P. as Santorum Fares Well

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG; Reporting was contributed by Jeff Zeleny, Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Malcolm Gay.

 BODY:
His candidacy all but dismissed just days ago, Rick Santorum won the Minnesota and Colorado caucuses and a nonbinding primary in Missouri on Tuesday, an unexpected trifecta that raised fresh questions about Mitt Romney's ability to corral conservative support.
With his triumphs, Mr. Santorum was also suddenly presenting new competition to Newt Gingrich as the chief alternative to Mr. Romney, the front-runner. Where Mr. Gingrich has won one state, South Carolina, Mr. Santorum has now won four, including Iowa.
His performance added another twist to an unruly nominating contest that has seen Republican voters veering among candidates and refusing to coalesce behind anyone. It came after Mr. Romney scored back-to-back victories in Florida and Nevada that had led to predictions that he was finally on a straight march to the nomination.
The results on Tuesday shook the political world, which appeared to once again make the mistake of believing the Republican race for the presidency was finally set on a stable trajectory. But it was an open question whether the defeats were a momentary embarrassment or a prolonged setback for Mr. Romney. 
His disappointing night notwithstanding, Mr. Romney goes into the next round of primaries and caucuses much better financed than his opponents in what will be much more of a nationwide campaign, capped off by the 11 Super Tuesday competitions on March 6. But the enthusiasm in the race is no longer his alone; his front-runner's label appears to have lost its shine.
Mr. Santorum's victory in Missouri was symbolic. The vote will not affect the awarding of delegates, which will be decided at district and state conventions later this year. But more Republicans participated in the Missouri primary than in the Nevada caucuses. And his victory in Colorado was a genuine upset in a state that Mr. Romney easily carried in 2008.
Combined with the victory in Minnesota, it gave him an important lift that his campaign hoped would translate into an infusion of new donations and support from the conservative Republican voters -- evangelicals and Tea Party adherents -- who have told pollsters all year that they are searching for someone whom they view as a true conservative.
The victories were Mr. Santorum's first since the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3 -- a victory awarded only after the fact. And he used them to reassert himself as the leading insurgent challenger to Mr. Romney, though he told cheering supporters at his headquarters in St. Charles, Mo., that he was setting his sights higher than that.
''I don't stand here to claim to be the conservative alternative to Mitt Romney,'' Mr. Santorum said after thanking God for getting him through the ''dog days'' of the campaign and the illness of his daughter Bella. ''I stand here to be the conservative alternative to Barack Obama.''
With the Colorado results still outstanding, he said the Republican voters in Missouri and Minnesota had sent a message to Mr. Romney, declaring: ''Maybe in Massachusetts, they were heard particularly loud tonight.'' And he called Mr. Romney an imperfect conservative messenger, saying that on health care and environmental policy, ''Mitt Romney has the same positions as Barack Obama.''
But the three victories for Mr. Santorum also place a fresh burden on him as he tries to swiftly build a structure to compete with Mr. Romney's battled-tested campaign team. His aides predicted that the evening would bring an outpouring of financial support. He also may be able to expect more help from the ''super PAC'' that supports him, the Red, White and Blue Fund. Its leading benefactor, the mutual fund executive Foster Friess, was standing directly behind Mr. Santorum as he gave his victory speech.
Asked by e-mail whether he would invest more heavily in the super PAC, Mr. Friess wrote back, ''With him doing so well tonight, he won't need me!''
And Mr. Santorum, whose appeal has been built on a populist message and a loyal following among conservative voters, now has the opportunity to get a fresh look by Republican voters as the nominating contest spreads across the country.
Mr. Romney appeared in Denver before there were enough returns in Colorado to project a victor. And he appeared to stumble some as he began his remarks to a subdued crowd by saying, ''I'm pretty confident we'll come in No. 1 or No. 2,'' and acknowledging ''a good night for Senator Santorum.''
Still, he declared, ''I expect to become our nominee with your help,'' before starting an address that recalled Mr. Obama's convention speech in Denver in 2008 and what he said were its many failed promises of a vastly improved economy.
Mr. Romney's aides played down the significance of the night, noting that he did not compete very hard, especially in Missouri, and adding that four years ago Senator John McCain had lost many state races before ultimately winning the nomination.
Yet the stinging defeats could prompt a re-examination of Mr. Romney's message and a recalibration of his strategy that has focused more on President Obama than on his Republican rivals. His advisers have brushed aside questions about the palpable lack of enthusiasm surrounding his candidacy, but he will now have to address those concerns.
If there was any bright spot for Mr. Romney, it was that Mr. Santorum's new strength promised to potentially split the anti-Romney vote in two with Mr. Gingrich, reducing its potential threat.
Speaking before the results in Ohio, where he was campaigning, Mr. Gingrich said the results should raise doubts about what has been portrayed as Mr. Romney's inexorable march to the nomination.
''I think the big story coming out tonight is that it's very hard for the elite media to portray Governor Romney as inevitable after tonight is over,'' he said.
Mr. Gingrich was not on the ballot in Missouri, helping to create Mr. Santorum's opening; but he was competing in Minnesota, where the party is known for the religious conservatism of a former Republican candidate, Representative Michele Bachmann.
The outcome of the races in Missouri, Minnesota and Colorado on Tuesday highlighted the peculiarities of the Republican nominating contest as it turns into a state-by-state delegate fight. In Missouri, more than 200,000 voters cast ballots, yet no delegates were awarded. In Minnesota and Colorado, only a fraction of voters participated in the caucuses, but the contests were seen as more legitimate because delegates will be awarded this spring based on the voting.
The newly emboldened Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, was now joining with Mr. Gingrich in a vow to take the campaign all the way to the Republican convention in Tampa this summer. Representative Ron Paul reminded supporters on Tuesday that he, too, hoped to continue collecting delegates and appear at the convention.
Earlier Tuesday, Mr. Santorum predicted that the results would ''change the direction of this race.''
He had been hoping to stanch the momentum that Mr. Romney had from his recent victories in Florida and Nevada. All three states that held contests Tuesday have very conservative Republican electorates that are believed to include large numbers of the sort of evangelicals and Tea Party adherents who had flocked to Mr. Santorum's candidacy in Iowa.It was a turnabout from four years ago, when Mr. Romney won in Colorado and Minnesota as the so-called conservative alternative to the man who became the Republican nominee in 2008, Senator John McCain.
But Mr. Romney is hoping to do well in the elections in Arizona and Michigan in three weeks, as well as in the Super Tuesday contests next month, when he is expected use his organizational and financial advantages to maximum effect.
So the evening appeared to mete out the most punishment to Mr. Gingrich, as Mr. Santorum's aides argued Tuesday's results proved that their candidate, not Mr. Gingrich, was the true conservative alternative to Mr. Romney.
Mr. Gingrich was not on the ballot in Missouri, which his campaign dismissed as a ''beauty contest,'' and by Tuesday he appeared to have so given up on Colorado and Minnesota that he spent the day in Ohio, which votes on Super Tuesday.
Throughout the day Mr. Gingrich kept his focus on Mr. Romney as a ''Massachusetts moderate.'' And, predicting that Mr. Romney could finish in Colorado with 20 percentage points less of the vote than he had four years ago, he said on CNN Tuesday, ''After tonight, you'll see this is a wide-open race.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum addressing supporters in St. Charles, Mo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Mitt Romney at the Auraria Campus in Denver on Tuesday. He trailed Rick Santorum in Minnesota and Missouri, but said, ''I expect to become our nominee.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) CHART: Results (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); RELIGION (61%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



303 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: To Senators, Bernanke Defends the Fed's Dual Objectives

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, continued to defend the Fed's efforts to control inflation and unemployment during an appearance Tuesday before the Senate Budget Committee. 
The Fed last month released a formal statement describing for the first time how it intended to pursue those objectives, as required by Congress, even though the dueling mandates of managing inflation and unemployment sometimes pull monetary policy in opposite directions. The core of this newly articulated doctrine, shaped by Mr. Bernanke, is that the Fed will not seek to encourage inflation, but if inflation should rise, it may rein it in more slowly to promote job growth.
Senate Republicans on Tuesday, like their colleagues in the House last week, expressed concern that the Fed effectively was declaring that it would prioritize job growth over inflation.
''Is the Fed sending a signal that keeping inflation in check is a secondary priority to achieving full employment?'' asked Senator Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa.
''I want to disabuse any notion that there is a priority for maximum employment,'' Mr. Bernanke responded.
Instead, he told another questioner, Senator Patrick Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, that the Fed's approach to its dual objectives is ''fully balanced and symmetrical.''
The hearing was remarkable for the absence of any direct questions for Mr. Bernanke about the most recent jobs data, released Friday, which showed that the economy added more jobs in January than in any month since last spring.
The Fed cited the weak state of the labor market last month in announcing that it intended to keep short-term interest rates near zero until late 2014. It also continues to stimulate the economy through other measures, including a vast portfolio of investments that it is shifting toward securities with longer terms to make borrowing even cheaper for businesses and consumers.
Investors want to know whether improving data would shake the Fed's commitment to these policies.
Republicans instead sought Mr. Bernanke's affirmation that unemployment remained far too prevalent and the recovery still faced challenges.
Mr. Bernanke agreed.
Democrats asked the Fed chairman to acknowledge that economic conditions were improving.
He agreed to this, too.
But both parties were stymied in their efforts to obtain his support in their battle over how the government should reduce its annual deficits. Republicans want to balance the federal budget primarily through spending cuts, while Democrats say the government must increase tax collections too.
Mr. Bernanke has repeatedly called on Congress to adopt a long-term plan for deficit reduction. He said Tuesday that this should be done ''as soon as possible.''
''We clearly need some major changes in our fiscal planning and our fiscal path going forward,'' he said, adding his familiar caution that the government should begin to put these changes in place only once the economy was stronger.
But he was blunt in refusing to specify such a plan.
''That's what people elected you to do,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke urged quick deficit reduction action. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); PAT TOOMEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



304 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Achilles' Heel

BYLINE: By EFRAIM HALEVY. 
Efraim Halevy, a former Israeli national security adviser and ambassador, was director of the Mossad from 1998 to 2002.

 BODY:
Jerusalem
THE public debate in America and Israel these days is focused obsessively on whether to attack Iran in order to halt its nuclear weapons ambitions; hardly any attention is being paid to how events in Syria could result in a strategic debacle for the Iranian government. Iran's foothold in Syria enables the mullahs in Tehran to pursue their reckless and violent regional policies -- and its presence there must be ended.
Ensuring that Iran is evicted from its regional hub in Damascus would cut off Iran's access to its proxies (Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza) and visibly dent its domestic and international prestige, possibly forcing a hemorrhaging regime in Tehran to suspend its nuclear policies. This would be a safer and more rewarding option than the military one. 
As President Bashar al-Assad's government falters, Syria is becoming Iran's Achilles' heel. Iran has poured a vast array of resources into the country. There are Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps encampments and Iranian weapons and advisers throughout Syria. And Iranian-controlled Hezbollah forces from Lebanon have joined in butchering the Syrians who have risen up against Mr. Assad. Iran is intent on assuring its hold over the country regardless of what happens to Mr. Assad -- and Israel and the West must prevent this at all costs.
Sadly, the opportunities presented by Syria's meltdown seem to be eluding Israeli leaders. Last week, Israel's military intelligence chief spoke of the 200,000 missiles and rockets in Gaza, Lebanon and Syria that could reach all of Israel's population centers. And there is a growing risk that advanced Syrian weapons might fall into the hands of terrorist groups. Iran's presence in Damascus is vital to maintaining these threats.
At this stage, there is no turning back; Mr. Assad must step down. For Israel, the crucial question is not whether he falls but whether the Iranian presence in Syria will outlive his government. Getting Iran booted out of Syria is essential for Israel's security. And if Mr. Assad goes, Iranian hegemony over Syria must go with him. Anything less would rob Mr. Assad's departure of any significance.
But Israel should not be the lone or even the principal actor in speeding his exit. Any workable outcome in Syria will have to involve the United States, Russia and Arab countries. America must offer Russia incentives to stop protecting the Assad regime, which will likely fall the moment Moscow withdraws its support. A force with a mandate from the Arab League should then ensure stability until a new Syrian government can take over.
The current standoff in Syria presents a rare chance to rid the world of the Iranian menace to international security and well-being. And ending Iran's presence there poses less of a risk to international commerce and security than harsher sanctions or war.
Russia and China, both of which vetoed a United Nations resolution last week calling on Mr. Assad to step down, should realize that his downfall could serve their interests, too. After all, Iranian interventionism could wreak havoc in Muslim-majority areas to Russia's south and China's west. And a nuclear-armed Iran would pose a serious potential threat on Russia's southern border.
Russia's interests in Syria are not synonymous with Iran's, and Moscow can now prove this by withdrawing its unwavering support for Mr. Assad. Russia simply wishes to maintain its access to Syria's Mediterranean ports in Tartus and Latakia and to remain a major arms supplier to Damascus. If Washington is willing to allow that, and not to sideline Russia as it did before intervening in Libya, the convergence of American and Russian interests in Iran and Syria could pave the way for Mr. Assad's downfall.
Once this is achieved, the entire balance of forces in the region would undergo a sea change. Iranian-sponsored terrorism would be visibly contained; Hezbollah would lose its vital Syrian conduit to Iran and Lebanon could revert to long-forgotten normalcy; Hamas fighters in Gaza would have to contemplate a future without Iranian weaponry and training; and the Iranian people might once again rise up against the regime that has brought them such pain and suffering.
Those who see this scenario as a daydream should consider the alternative: a post-Assad government still wedded to Iran with its fingers on the buttons controlling long-range Syrian missiles with chemical warheads that can strike anywhere in Israel. This is a certain prescription for war, and Israel would have no choice but to prevent it.
Fortunately, Mr. Assad and his allies have unwittingly created an opportunity to defuse the Iranian threat. If the international community does not seize it and Iranian influence in Syria emerges intact, the world will face a choice between a military strike and even more crippling sanctions, which could cause oil prices to skyrocket and throw the world economy off balance. The United States and Russia should wish for neither.
Syria has created a third option. We do not have the luxury of ignoring it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HAMAS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RELIGION (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%); HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); ISRAEL (97%); SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



305 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: A Contrarian Bets Ireland and Hungary Will Rebound

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
For months now, a big investor has been betting billions of dollars that two of Europe's most wounded countries will bounce back from the beating they have taken during the region's debt crisis.
But the bets, which center on Irish and Hungarian government bonds, aren't the work of a hedge fund operating stealthily out of London or Geneva. Instead, the buyer is Franklin Templeton Investments, a mutual funds firm that caters to individual investors rather than to sophisticated institutional customers like pension funds.
The man behind the trades is Michael Hasenstab, who at the relatively young age of 38 has already drawn comparisons to some of the titans of the mutual fund industry, including Bill Gross of Pimco.
From his perch at Franklin Templeton's headquarters in San Mateo, Calif., Mr. Hasenstab oversees a team of research analysts that controls more than $165 billion in assets, including the $57 billion Templeton Global Bond Fund. Last summer, when investors around the world dumped their holdings of Irish government debt, sending yields soaring, Hasenstab was buying. Today, his fund owns at least $2.5 billion in Irish government bonds. His Hungarian bet is even bigger, at more than $3 billion in that shakier country's debt. The Irish bonds have been the far stronger performers, rallying more than 35 percent from the middle of last year. 
Since 2008, investors have made a lot of money betting against Europe, but now some funds appear to think there might be a bigger payout from taking an optimistic stance on certain countries, like Ireland.
''Without question, the single best trade in the entire euro zone space is the one he's done,'' said Donal O'Mahony, the global strategist for Davy Securities in Dublin, said of Mr. Hasenstab's purchase of Irish bonds.
But taking a very different approach from many of his peers -- Mr. Hasenstab and the fund, for instance, have largely shunned the perceived havens of bonds of the United States and Germany -- carries risks.
''The firm has given him a lot of freedom to execute a unique strategy, and it's paid off,'' said Miriam Sjoblom, an analyst with the research firm Morningstar, noting that the fund also has a stake in South Korean bonds and a bet that the yen will fall.
''But the risks that he's taking here are pretty considerable, and there is the potential for the fund to suffer a bad spell.''
Mr. Hasenstab declined to comment for this article. Franklin Templeton representatives would not provide updated information about his holdings beyond publicly filed numbers for the end of last year. They said that the size and diversity of the fund insulated it from problems from a single country.
Mr. Hasenstab, who wrote his dissertation for his Ph.D. in the late 1990s on the development of China's financial markets, has spent the bulk of his career at Franklin Templeton. Under his eye for the last decade, the Templeton Global Bond Fund has bested its peers time and again, racking up annualized gains of 11.7 percent, according to Chicago-based Morningstar. Those returns attracted investors who flooded into the fund, making it nearly four times as big as the next-largest, Unites States-registered global bond fund.
''We take a long-term perspective, it's a research-driven perspective and we're often contrarian, and that has been the case for decades and I think will remain the case for decades to come,'' Mr. Hasenstab said in a late October video posted on Franklin Templeton's Web site.
Mr. Hasenstab is one of the firm's top fee-generators because of the huge amounts of money he oversees. He paid $2.9 million in 2007 for a house on more than 19 acres in Sonoma Valley in California that was designed by the architect Robert G. Zinkhan.
Some say the secret to Mr. Hasenstab's success is that he is not afraid to make big, concentrated bets in countries or currencies that are off the beaten trail or simply unloved. As of November, he had sunk over a quarter of the Templeton Global Bond Fund's assets into South Korean and Polish government bonds, according to a filing made with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Even as the fund's Irish bonds gave it a boost, other foreign investments flagged in the second half of last year as the euro crisis rattled global markets. The fund landed near the bottom of its peer group in performance rankings, according to Morningstar's data. After those returns, investors yanked out nearly $2.2 billion in the last two months of the year, according to an analysis by the brokerage firm Macquarie.
Now fund managers in Europe and the United States are closely watching Mr. Hasenstab's moves, trying to gauge if his big bets in Ireland and Hungary will pay off.
Traders in Dublin said they noticed a big buyer coming into the Irish government bond market late in the second quarter of last year and into the third. The buying, they said, was easy to spot as it typically occurred around the same time -- lunchtime in Dublin -- and because most investors were selling or staying away after the ratings agency Moody's downgraded the country to junk status in mid-July.
The buyer in all likelihood was Franklin Templeton. According to reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Templeton Global Bond Fund owned $685 million worth of Irish government debt at the end of August, up from zero at the end of May. By the end of November, the fund held $2.49 billion worth of Irish sovereign debt.
Those numbers most likely understate the size of the bet made by Mr. Hasenstab because they reflect only the disclosed holdings for the United States-registered Templeton Global Bond Fund. The data firm Thomson Reuters eMAXX estimates Franklin Templeton's various United States and European funds held a combined $7.2 billion in Irish bonds at the end of last year, or about 6 percent of the country's total outstanding bonds.
Mr. Hasenstab has been an evangelist for Ireland's stoic response to the crisis. In October, The Wall Street Journal's editorial pages published a commentary by Mr. Hasenstab, titled ''Lessons of the Irish Comeback.'' In it, he said wage cuts for Irish workers were painful but had helped the country regain competitiveness. In the article, he did not disclose whether his funds held any Irish bonds. Mr. Hasenstab did mention that Franklin Templeton funds had bought Irish sovereign debt in a September commentary on the company's Web site, a spokeswoman said.
So far, the Irish trade appears to have done well. The price of Irish government bonds has risen 37 percent since the end of June, according to a Bloomberg index.
''They've had a huge gain on the trade; they've done really well,'' said Ronan Reid, the chief executive of Dolman Securities in Ireland.
The question hanging over Mr. Hasenstab's Irish bet is whether he will hold the bonds after 2013. Right now, the Irish government can pay off bonds that come due with the help of rescue loans from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. But after 2013, Ireland may need to go back to borrowing from private investors to repay debts that come due -- and the appetite may not be there, which could send Irish bond prices plunging. All of the Templeton Global Bond Fund's Irish government bonds mature after 2013, according to the November holdings filing.
Some traders question whether the run-up in Irish government bond prices resulted in part from Mr. Hasenstab's own buying. Others wonder what might happen if he tried to sell those bonds quickly. When a fund's position becomes big in a market that is dominated by foreign investors, mass selling can drive prices sharply lower.
That may be more of a concern with Mr. Hasenstab's stake in Hungarian government bonds.
At the end of November, the fund's $3.03 billion of Hungarian government debt was more than double than what it held at the end of May, according to regulatory filings.
But, again, those filings reflect only a portion of Mr. Hasenstab's bets. Thomson Reuters eMAXX estimates Franklin Templeton's funds owned some $8.8 billion of Hungarian government bonds at the end of last year.
Weighed down by a high debt load and racked by political and economic turmoil, Hungary is seeking aid from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. However, relations with both entities became strained last year after Hungary pursued measures that could, among other things, threaten the independence of the country's central bank.
Hungarian bonds have struggled amid the country's disagreements with the European Union. The price of those bonds has fallen 8 percent since the end of June, according to their Bloomberg index. The index has risen 8.7 percent so far this year.
Just over 60 percent of Hungarian government bonds are held by foreigners, according to statistics from the country's central bank. That's high, and means foreign sellers heading for the exit would struggle to find enough domestic buyers.
''Hungary doesn't have a large pool of local savings, so if you want to sell, your ability to exit is limited,'' said Koon Chow, emerging-markets strategist at Barclays Capital in London.
In a statement, Franklin Templeton said, ''The fund's well-diversified and large-asset base further insulates against the need to sell positions before their targets have been achieved.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Hasenstab (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANKLIN TEMPLETON INVESTMENTS, VIA A.P.) (B1)
 The Feny Utca food market in Budapest. The Hungarian government is seeking aid from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AKOS STILLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BONDS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); EURO ZONE (69%)

COMPANY: FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

TICKER: BEN (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) HUNGARY (94%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



306 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
DEAD LAWYER TO BE RETRIED ON TAX CHARGES IN RUSSIA
The police in Russia plan to retry a tax evasion case -- one in which the primary defendant died in detention more than two years ago. The retrial of the defendant, Sergei L. Magnitsky, would be the first posthumous prosecution in Russian legal history. Page A4
MALDIVES PRESIDENT RESIGNS 
President Mohamed Nasheed of the Maldives resigned after weeks of mounting protests and what appeared to be a police mutiny. Some of Mr. Nasheed's allies claimed that the events amounted to a coup orchestrated by supporters of his predecessor. Page A13
SUDAN REBELS FREE WORKERS
Sudanese rebels released more than two dozen Chinese construction workers who had been abducted late last month. The Sudanese government implied that the newly independent nation of South Sudan helped gain the release of the 29 Chinese workers. Page A12
AHMADINEJAD MUST TESTIFY
After several failed attempts, Iranian lawmakers mustered enough votes to compel President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to testify before them in coming weeks about what they called irregularities related to his handling of the country's struggling economy. Page A12
National
FLORIDA AUTHORITIES ENDING
THE CITY THAT NEVER WAS
The city of Islandia sprang from the delusions of land developers who imagined a rollicking resort town on an inaccessible speck of coral rock north of Key Largo. In the end, their dreams were just another Florida hustle, one the authorities are finally poised to shut down. Page A14
MORE PAYROLL TAX SQUABBLES
Any hope for a fast and quiet resolution to the Congressional battle over a payroll tax holiday seemed to dim as members of a bipartisan negotiating committee clashed over how to pay for the extension. Page A18
New York
JUDGE APPROVES SETTLEMENT
OF CITY'S LOITERING ARRESTS
Nearly 30 years of court battles over illegal arrests for loitering in New York City came to an end as a federal judge approved a settlement that will include a $15 million payment by the city. Page A21
Obituaries
ANTONI TaPIES, 88
He was a largely self-taught Spanish abstract painter whose seductive tactile surfaces, often scratched with mysterious graffiti-like marks, made use of unconventional materials like sand and earth. Page B17
Business
A CONTRARIAN BETS BILLIONS
ON IRELAND AND HUNGARY
The Franklin Templeton Investments mutual-funds firm has been betting billions of dollars that two of Europe's most wounded countries will bounce back from the region's debt crisis. Page B1
PARKS LIFT DISNEY'S RESULTS
Vacationers are opening their wallets wide at Disney's theme parks, contributing to a climbing quarterly profit at the entertainment conglomerate. Page B3
Sports
TIGER WOODS RECALLS
AN EARLY LESSON
Tiger Woods has struggled to close out a victory on the PGA Tour the way Kyle Stanley has in recent weeks. ''What that allowed me to do is understand and feel the heat at this level,'' Woods said. Page B14
Arts
PAULA VOGEL LEADS
A PLAYWRIGHT BOOT CAMP
Paula Vogel held her latest boot camp on playwriting at the Off Broadway Second Stage Theater, where Ms. Vogel's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama ''How I Learned to Drive'' is having its first New York revival. Page C1
Dining
PRESERVING THE LANGUAGE
OF AN ELEGANT WINE
The wines of Gentaz-Dervieux epitomize the fragile balance among gorgeous, subtle aromas. Yet the precious supply of these wines is almost gone, Eric Asimov writes. Page D1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); JUDGES (78%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (78%); COUPS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); TAX RELIEF (73%); APPROVALS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); VANDALISM (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); GOLF (60%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%); BEN (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (71%); TIGER WOODS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) SUDAN (94%); MALDIVES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



307 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Obama Tries to Ease Ire on Contraception Rule

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Facing vocal opposition from religious leaders and an escalating political fight, the White House sought on Tuesday to ease mounting objections to a new administration rule that would require health insurance plans -- including those offered by Catholic universities and charities -- to offer birth control to women free of charge.
As the Republican presidential candidates and conservative leaders sought to frame the rule as showing President Obama's insensitivity to religious beliefs, Mr. Obama's aides promised to explore ways to make it more palatable to religious-affiliated institutions, perhaps by allowing some employers to make side insurance plans available that are not directly paid for by the institutions.
But White House officials insisted the president would not back down from his decision last month that employees at institutions affiliated with religious organizations receive access to contraceptives. 
During a campaign season that was supposed to be consumed by economic concerns, the growing uproar surrounding the contraception rule and other developments -- including a federal appeals court's decision Tuesday to strike down a California ban on same-sex marriage and the protests last week that prompted an anti-cancer group to reverse a ban on grants to Planned Parenthood -- showed that social issues still resonate strongly on the political stage.
With Congressional Republicans coming out in opposition to the administration stance, the contraception fight was threatening to erupt into a major political confrontation.
But how it would play in the broader electorate remained uncertain.
Even though Roman Catholic bishops and some Catholic institutions have sounded vocal opposition to the law, recent polls, which Obama officials were pointing to on Tuesday, show that a majority of Catholics favor the new contraceptive rule, which Mr. Obama approved in January after heated debate in the White House. There was high-level division among some women and men on the staff that was a result more of differences in strategy than of disagreement with the policy itself.
Nonetheless, Mr. Obama's aides were concerned about being portrayed as hostile to religious groups in an election year.
''We certainly don't want to abridge anyone's religious freedoms, so we're going to look for a way to move forward that both provides women with the preventative care that they need and respects the prerogatives of religious institutions,'' David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama's re-election campaign, said on Tuesday on MSNBC's ''Morning Joe.''
Mr. Axelrod's comments came in response to the opposition that gathered steam last week after letters denouncing the rule and written by Catholic clergy members were read in Catholic churches across the country.
''I'm less concerned about the messaging of this than to find a resolution that makes sense,'' Mr. Axelrod said.
His comments sparked a flurry of calls and e-mails to the White House and the Obama campaign from both supporters and opponents, who interpreted his remarks as the beginning of a White House reversal on an issue that has captured attention on university campuses and in churches around the country.
The criticism put the White House and the Obama campaign in the delicate position of having to explain -- as they did repeatedly on Tuesday -- that while the administration was sensitive to the issue of religious freedom, it was sticking to its position.
''The president is committed to making sure that all women have access to these important preventive services,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said at a briefing that was dominated by questions on the policy.
He noted the one-year grace period that the rule gives to religious-affiliated institutions, which was put into place, he said, ''because the president is very interested in finding the appropriate balance between religious beliefs and convictions.''
But Republicans were already running with the issue. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, called the law ''abhorrent to the foundational principles'' of the country. ''No one in the United States of America should ever be compelled by their government to choose between violating their religious beliefs or be penalized for refusing,'' he said.
On the campaign trail Tuesday, all the Republican presidential candidates seized on the issue and assailed Mr. Obama for what they said was a curtailment of religious freedom.
In Johnstown, Colo., Mitt Romney called the rule ''a real blow, particularly to our friends in the Catholic faith.'' But Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum, hoping to galvanize the conservative base of the party, tried to tar Mr. Romney with the same brush, saying that while he was governor of Massachusetts, he had allowed a similar rule to take effect and that he was being hypocritical now.
In 2005, Mr. Romney vetoed a measure to require hospitals to provide the morning-after pill to rape victims. The Legislature overrode his veto, but he did say at the time that in his ''heart of hearts,'' he believed that rape victims should have access to emergency contraception.
Mr. Obama's backers said the conservative opposition did not reflect the view of most Americans. ''We've seen in the last week the reaction of women and men when you start putting ideology ahead of health concerns,'' said Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, in an interview. ''There have been a lot of Beltway voices that do not represent how important an issue this is.''
The White House has been skittish from the start about the new rule, which was announced last month only after internal debates at the White House that, to some extent, pitted women -- Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, who is Catholic; Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to the president, and Nancy-Ann DeParle, the deputy chief of staff, on one side, arguing forcefully in favor of the rule, administration officials said.
On the other side, cautioning that the administration tread carefully and look for ways to minimize another major break with the church, they said, were several Catholic men who are close advisers to Mr. Obama: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and William M. Daley, the chief of staff at the time. Also weighing in, administration officials said, was Denis R. McDonough, the deputy national security adviser, whose purview does not naturally extend to health issues, but who is a Catholic.
''I can't tell you how many times we went over this,'' one administration official said, speaking on grounds of anonymity. In the end, it was Mr. Obama himself who made the decision, aides say, calculating that at the end of the day, the issue of public health access outweighed the concerns of the religious institutions.
Administration officials say one avenue for resolution might be to look at how Catholic institutions in the 28 states with similar laws have dealt with the issue. One possible compromise might be to emulate Hawaii, where the rule is in effect, but where employees at religious institutions that do not offer free contraception can get birth control through side benefits, which the employees nominally pay for but which often end up being free.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Axelrod said on ''Morning Joe'' on MSNBC that Obama administration officials were seeking a way to ease objections to a rule requiring health insurance plans to cover contraception. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MSNBC) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); CONTRACEPTION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); MARRIAGE (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%); APPEALS COURTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



308 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Gingrich Focuses on Ohio, Hoping for Eventual Payoff on Super Tuesday

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
DAYTON, Ohio -- On a day that was not kind to Newt Gingrich, he traveled to a place he hopes will help get him back in the saddle next month: Ohio.
Dealt a big defeats in the Minnesota and Colorado caucuses on Tuesday, Mr. Gingrich is campaigning for two days across Ohio, which does not vote until Super Tuesday -- March 6 -- but is a place he feels he can win. A strong showing in this state, with its 66 delegates, would help him claw back from disappointing showings in Florida and Nevada and play into his strategy of trying to regain momentum in conservative Southern states and working-class battlegrounds that hold contests on Super Tuesday or later.
At a Tuesday morning speech at a chili restaurant in Cincinnati, Mr. Gingrich suggested that he might even be leading the race here, though it is far from clear where he actually stands against Mitt Romney, particularly since the contest is so far off. ''We need your help to make it a bigger margin,'' he told the crowd of about 200. 
Then in Dayton he made a pocketbook appeal to hundreds of people who packed in, standing-room only, at a meeting hall. Noting that opponents had mocked him for proposing to colonize the moon, he suggested that his lunar gambit would be a lucrative shot in the arm for a region where aerospace remains a dominant industry. Square in his sights were the more than 200,000 scientists, engineers, mechanics, assemblers and aerospace workers who live and vote in and around Cincinnati and Dayton.
The debate over space, he said, is about ''whether or not the bold, visionary, exciting, job-creating future that secures our national security'' is ''the right path for a strong, prosperous America.''
He added, ''And this is the right town to have that discussion.''
He used his lampooning by the troupe of ''Saturday Night Live'' over his moon-colony proposal to start his talk -- ''funny show'' -- and offered one of his favored chestnuts about American entrepreneurial resilience, the story of the Wright brothers, who lived in Dayton. Then he toured Hawthorn Hill, home of Orville Wright.
His local-economics approach worked with Brenda Newman, who waited in line for two hours to attend the rally with her husband, Rickey, who was laid off seven months ago. ''He's going to work for us and give us hope,'' she said of Mr. Gingrich.
But whether his late-in-the-race strategy will succeed for his campaign is an open question. The campaign's plan is to hold out until he can make his appeal on more favorable turf, particularly when Southern voters skeptical of Mr. Romney's social-policy positions become a larger segment of the voting.
''We're getting out of Mitt Romney's comfort zone,'' both on the issues as well as geographically, said Mr. Gingrich's spokesman, R. C. Hammond.
Mr. Gingrich can take some hope in a few early Southern polls as well as in his performance in South Carolina and the Florida Panhandle, the conservative part of the state, where he won all but a handful of counties despite being soundly defeated by Mr. Romney in the statewide tally. His campaign is looking forward to Super Tuesday contests in places like Georgia and Oklahoma, and later in Texas.
But to make it through those races -- and do well in Ohio -- he needs money, another category in which he is trailing not only Mr. Romney but also Representative Ron Paul of Texas.
Nationally ''there is a feeling of inevitability about Romney,'' said one senior Republican official in this state. ''But Ohio is wide open, and I think any of the top four candidates could come in here and sneak away with a handful of delegates.''
Crucial for Mr. Gingrich, this official said, is how much help he will be able to get in Ohio from his ''super PAC.'' ''I think it all comes down to resources, and who's got the ability to play in what will be six or seven media markets.''
And if the past is any guide, Mr. Romney will use his vast spending power to try to capture the prize of Ohio. In addition to his money, he will also have his formidable organization, making two weapons that proved so decisive in Florida, another large state with multiple expensive media markets.
Mr. Gingrich alluded to his financial shortcomings at an appearance on Tuesday night in Columbus, though he used it to attack his main rival in an area that is a sensitive spot for Mr. Romney -- his ties to Wall Street -- a theme that could resonate in a state where many manufacturers have struggled.
''I'm not going to be able to raise the scale of money Governor Romney can,'' he said. ''I don't have Goldman Sachs. And I don't have all of his major donors from Wall Street.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich on Tuesday at Memorial Hall in Dayton, Ohio, with his wife, Callista. With a nod to the Wright brothers, he defended his moon-colony proposal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON P. BERNSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); MITT ROMNEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (96%); COLORADO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



309 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: 50 Years After Kennedy's Ban, Embargo on Cuba Remains

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
HAVANA (AP) -- The world is much changed since the early days of 1962, but one thing has remained constant: The United States' economic embargo on Cuba, a near-total trade ban that turned 50 on Tuesday. 
Supporters say it is a justified measure against a repressive Communist government that has never stopped being a thorn in Washington's side. Critics call it a failed policy that has hurt ordinary Cubans instead of the government.
All acknowledge that it has not accomplished its core mission of toppling Fidel Castro or his brother and successor, Raul.
''All this time has gone by, and yet we keep it in place,'' said Wayne Smith, who was a young American diplomat in Havana in 1961 when relations were severed and who returned as the chief American diplomat after they were partially re-established under President Jimmy Carter. ''We talk to the Russians, we talk to the Chinese, we have normal relations even with Vietnam,'' Mr. Smith said. ''We trade with all of them. So why not with Cuba?''
In the White House, the first sign of the looming total embargo came when President John F. Kennedy told his press secretary to buy him as many H. Upmann Cuban cigars as he could find. The aide came back with 1,200.
Although trade restrictions had been imposed by his predecessor, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mr. Kennedy announced the total embargo on Feb. 3, 1962, citing ''the subversive offensive of Sino-Soviet Communism with which the government of Cuba is publicly aligned.''
It went into effect four days later at the height of the cold war, a year removed from the failed C.I.A.-backed Bay of Pigs invasion meant to oust Communism from Cuba and eight months before the Soviet attempts to put nuclear missiles on the island brought the two superpowers to the brink of war.
Little was planned to observe Tuesday's anniversary, but Cuban-American members of Congress issued a joint statement vowing to keep the heat on Cuba.
Supporters of the policy acknowledge that many American strategic concerns from the 1960s are now in the past, such as curbing Soviet influence and keeping Fidel Castro from exporting revolution throughout Latin America. But they say that other justifications remain, such as the confiscation of United States property in Cuba and the need to press for greater freedoms on the island.
''We have a hemispheric commitment to freedom and democracy and respect for human rights,'' said Jose Cardenas, a former National Security Council staff member on Cuba under President George W. Bush. ''I still think that those are worthy aspirations.''
With just 90 miles of sea between Florida and Cuba, the United States would be a natural No. 1 trade partner and source of tourism.
The embargo is a constant talking point for island authorities, who blame it for shortages of everything from medical equipment to the concrete needed for highway construction. Cuba frequently fulminates against the ''blockade'' at the United Nations and demands the United States end its ''genocidal'' policy. Every fall, a vast majority of nations back a resolution condemning the embargo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); JIMMY CARTER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



310 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: For Hotel Staff, Panic Buttons And Big Raises

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Operators of the biggest hotels in New York City have agreed to a long-term contract that will give hotel housekeepers and other employees significant pay raises, fully paid health coverage, larger pension contributions and one unusual benefit: personal panic buttons.
The security devices would summon help if hotel staff encounter danger in a guest's room -- a possibility that was brought into sharp relief when a hotel housekeeper accused the French politician Dominique Strauss-Kahn of sexually assaulting her in his suite at the Sofitel New York last year. 
The provision in the proposed contract calls for the hotels to equip certain employees with ''devices to be carried on their persons at work that they can quickly and easily activate to effectively summon prompt assistance to their location.'' The devices, which will be distributed within a year to housekeepers, room-service waiters and even the attendants who stock the minibars, may vary from hotel to hotel for technical reasons, but all will serve the basic purpose of calling for help. No estimate of the cost of the equipment was available on Tuesday.
''It's a very cost-efficient and simple way to keep hotel workers safe,'' said Assemblyman Rory I. Lancman, a Queens Democrat who sponsored a bill last year to require hotels to provide such equipment. ''After what happened last year and what we learned happens all too often in hotels, we're very grateful that the hotels have agreed to essentially adopt the premise of our legislation.''
Neither union officials nor representatives of the hotel owners would say that the provision was a result of the Strauss-Kahn episode, which ended with charges against him being dropped in August after prosecutors decided that the accuser, Nafissatou Diallo, was not credible.
Nonetheless, after the arrest of Mr. Strauss-Kahn last spring, the Sofitel and another Manhattan hotel, the Pierre, said that they would provide some sort of panic buttons to their staff members. A spokeswoman for the Pierre, Nora Walsh, said on Tuesday that the hotel was ''implementing the communication system,'' but declined to share any details.
The panic buttons may prove to be the least costly of the provisions in the new contract, whose terms were presented on Tuesday evening to the 30,000 members of the New York Hotel Trades Council A.F.L.-C.I.O. The seven-year contract has been approved by the board of the Hotel Association of New York and is scheduled to be ratified by the union's members on Monday.
The deal would include annual raises that would increase wages by 29 percent over the life of the contract. Those increases would raise the pay of a typical housekeeper to $59,823 per year, from $46,337 today, said John Turchiano, a hotel union spokesman.
The proposal would also guarantee that the members continue to receive medical, dental and optical insurance for themselves and their families with no out-of-pocket costs to them, not even co-payments to doctors, Mr. Turchiano said. In addition, the hotel owners would gradually increase their contributions to the members' pensions to 10.5 percent of total payroll, from 9 percent.
Asked what concessions the union made in return, Peter Ward, president of the council, said, ''We didn't give up anything.''
Mr. Ward acknowledged that in an economy so weak that once-mighty unions were accepting wage cuts and pensions freezes, the hotel union's deal might seem extraordinary. But pointing to the rising rates the hotels have been charging and their high occupancy levels, Mr. Ward said, ''you have to recognize that the hotel industry is in a unique bubble in New York City.''
''This is unlike the hotel industry in any other city in America,'' he continued.
But a spokeswoman for the hotel association, Lisa Linden, responded that ''the hotel industry in New York City is not flush; it faces continued challenges and uncertainties.''
''The industry values its workers greatly and their safety is also of paramount concern,'' she continued.
Joseph E. Spinnato, the president of the association, said the hotel owners were pleased to wrap up contract negotiations amicably five months before the current contract was set to expire. ''In a constructive and cooperative spirit, we were able to reach this early agreement, which is good for our members, the union and the city of New York,'' Mr. Spinnato said.
The contract covers employees at most of the big hotels in the city, but not those operated under the Hilton brand by Blackstone Group, including the New York Hilton and the Waldorf-Astoria. A separate contract will have to be negotiated for those workers, who number from 3,000 to 4,000, Mr. Ward said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL STAFF (95%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (70%); APPROVALS (70%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012



311 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1711 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Plans to Cut Its Staff By Half At Iraq Embassy

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Less than two months after American troops left, the State Department is preparing to slash by as much as half the enormous diplomatic presence it had planned for Iraq, a sharp sign of declining American influence in the country.
Officials in Baghdad and Washington said that Ambassador James F. Jeffrey and other senior State Department officials were reconsidering the size and scope of the embassy, where the staff has swelled to nearly 16,000 people, mostly contractors.
The expansive diplomatic operation and the $750 million embassy building, the largest of its kind in the world, were billed as necessary to nurture a postwar Iraq on its shaky path to democracy and establish normal relations between two countries linked by blood and mutual suspicion. But the Americans have been frustrated by what they see as Iraqi obstructionism and are now largely confined to the embassy because of security concerns, unable to interact enough with ordinary Iraqis to justify the $6 billion annual price tag.
The swift realization among some top officials that the diplomatic buildup may have been ill advised represents a remarkable pivot for the State Department, in that officials spent more than a year planning the expansion and that many of the thousands of additional personnel have only recently arrived. 
Michael W. McClellan, the embassy spokesman, said in a statement, ''Over the last year and continuing this year the Department of State and the Embassy in Baghdad have been considering ways to appropriately reduce the size of the U.S. mission in Iraq, primarily by decreasing the number of contractors needed to support the embassy's operations.''
Mr. McClellan said the number of diplomats -- currently about 2,000 -- was also ''subject to adjustment as appropriate.''
To make the cuts, he said the embassy was ''hiring Iraqi staff and sourcing more goods and services to the local economy.''
After the American troops departed in December, life became more difficult for the thousands of diplomats and contractors left behind. Convoys of food that had been escorted by the United States military from Kuwait were delayed at border crossings as Iraqis demanded documentation that the Americans were unaccustomed to providing.
Within days, the salad bar at the embassy dining hall ran low. Sometimes there was no sugar or Splenda for coffee. On chicken-wing night, wings were rationed at six per person. Over the holidays, housing units were stocked with Meals Ready to Eat, the prepared food for soldiers in the field.
At every turn, the Americans say, the Iraqi government has interfered with the activities of the diplomatic mission, one they grant that the Iraqis never asked for or agreed upon. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's office -- and sometimes even the prime minister himself -- now must approve visas for all Americans, resulting in lengthy delays. American diplomats have had trouble setting up meetings with Iraqi officials.
For their part, the Iraqis say they are simply enforcing their laws and protecting their sovereignty in the absence of a working agreement with the Americans on the embassy.
''The main issue between Iraqis and the U.S. Embassy is that we have not seen, and do not know anything about, an agreement between the Iraqi government and the U.S.,'' said Nahida al-Dayni, a lawmaker and member of Iraqiya, a largely Sunni bloc in Parliament.
Expressing a common sentiment among Iraqis, she added: ''The U.S. had something on their mind when they made it so big. Perhaps they want to run the Middle East from Iraq, and their embassy will be a base for them here.''
Those suspicions have been reinforced by two murky episodes, one involving four armed Americans on the streets of Baghdad that Iraqi officials believe were Central Intelligence Agency operatives and another when an American helicopter was forced to make an emergency landing because of an unspecified mechanical failure on the outskirts of the capital on the banks of the Tigris River.
''The aircraft that broke down raised many questions about the role of Americans here,'' said Ammar al-Hakim, the leader of the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, a leading Shiite political party and social organization. ''So what is the relationship? We're still waiting for more information.''
The current configuration of the embassy, a 104-acre campus with adobe-colored buildings, is actually smaller than the original plans that were drawn up at a time when officials believed that a residual American military presence would remain in Iraq beyond 2011. For instance, officials once planned for a 700-person consulate in the northern city of Mosul, but it was scrapped for budgetary reasons.
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari met with Mr. Jeffrey last week to discuss, among other things, the size of the American presence here. ''The problem is with the contractors, with the security arrangements,'' Mr. Zebari said. Mr. Jeffrey will leave the task of whittling down the embassy to his successor, as officials said he is expected to step down in the coming weeks.
''We always knew that what they were planning to do didn't make sense,'' said Kenneth M. Pollack, of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. ''It's increasingly becoming clear that they are horribly overstaffed given what they are able to accomplish.''
Mr. Pollack described as unrealistic the State Department's belief that it could handle many of the tasks previously performed by the military, such as monitoring security in northern areas disputed by Arabs and Kurds, where checkpoints are jointly manned by Iraqi and Kurdish security forces, and visiting projects overseen by the United States Agency for International Development.
Americans are also still being shot at regularly in Iraq. At the Kirkuk airport, an Office of Security Cooperation, which handles weapons sales to the Iraqis and where a number of diplomats work, is frequently attacked by rockets fired by, officials believe, members of Men of the Army of Al Naqshbandi Order, a Sunni insurgent group.
American officials believed that Iraqi officials would be far more cooperative than they have been in smoothing the transition from a military operation to a diplomatic mission led by American civilians. The expansion has exacted a toll on Iraqi ministries, which are keen to exert their sovereignty after nearly nine years of war and occupation, and aggravated long-running tensions between the two countries.
The size of the embassy staff is even more remarkable when compared with those of other countries. Turkey, for instance, which is Iraq's largest trading partner and wields more economic influence here than the United States, employs roughly 55 people at its embassy, and the number of actual diplomats is in the single digits.
''It's really been an overload for us, for the Foreign Ministry,'' Mr. Zebari said of the American mission.
The problems with the supply convoys, as well as a wide crackdown on security contractors that included detentions and the confiscation of documents, computers and weapons, prompted the embassy to post a notice on its Web site warning Americans working here that ''the government of Iraq is strictly enforcing immigration and customs procedures, to include visas and stamps for entry and exit, vehicle registration, and authorizations for weapons, convoys, logistics and other matters.''
The considerations to reduce the number of embassy personnel, American officials here said, reflect a belief that a quieter and humbler diplomatic presence could actually result in greater leverage over Iraqi affairs, particularly in mediating a political crisis that flared just as the troops were leaving. Having fewer burly, bearded and tattooed security men -- who are currently the face of America to many Iraqis and evoke memories of abuses like the shooting deaths of 17 Iraqi civilians in a Baghdad square in 2007 by private contractors -- could help build trust with Iraqis, these officials believe.
''Iraqis, as individuals, have had bad experiences with these security firms,'' said Latif Rashid, a senior adviser to President Jalal Talabani.
One State Department program that is likely to be scrutinized is an ambitious program to train the Iraqi police, which is costing about $500 million this year -- far less than the nearly $1 billion that the embassy originally intended to spend. The program has generated considerable skepticism within the State Department -- one of the officials interviewed predicted that the program could be scrapped later this year -- because of the high cost of the support staff, the inability of police advisers to leave their bases because of the volatile security situation and a lack of support by the Iraqi government.
In an interview late last year with the American Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, a senior official at the Interior Ministry said the United States should use the money it planned to spend on the police program ''for something that can benefit the people of the United States.'' The official, Adnan al-Asadi, predicted the Iraqis would receive ''very little benefit'' from the program.
Reducing the size of the embassy might have the added benefit of quieting the anti-Americanism of those who violently opposed the military occupation.
Moktada al-Sadr, the Shiite cleric who has steadfastly railed against American influence here and whose militia fought the American military, has recently told his followers that the United States has failed to ''disarm.''
Mr. Sadr recently posted a statement on his Web site that read, ''I ask the competent authorities in Iraq to open an embassy in Washington, equivalent to the size of the U.S. Embassy in Iraq, in order to maintain the prestige of Iraq.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 9, 2012

 CORRECTION:
A headline on Wednesday about the State Department's plans to reduce the size and scope of the United States Embassy in Iraq overstated what is known about the effort. As the article noted, officials in Baghdad and Washington say the planned American diplomatic presence in Iraq could be slashed by as much as half; it is not certain that it would be slashed in half.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: a street sign in front of the Chancellery building inside the United States Embassy compound, a Christmas tree inside the building's lobby, the embassy dining hall and the pool. The expansive diplomatic operation and the $750 million embassy building, the largest in the world, were billed as necessary to nurture a postwar Iraq on its shaky path to democracy.
 The State Department could no longer justify the $6 billion annual price tag in Baghdad. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); CHRISTMAS (66%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (60%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



312 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: A Window for Outsiders

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- When India's finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, flew to Chicago recently to address a group of American executives, it was to deliver an urgent message: India is still open for business.
Usually a cautious speaker who offers only vague promises, Mr. Mukherjee eagerly promoted specific new deals from New Delhi, where the national government has become alarmed by the sudden slowdown of India's economy.
He listed pro-business policies his government recently approved or soon would: foreign individuals could invest directly in the Indian stock market; overseas specialty retailers like Gap could open wholly owned stores in the country, and bigger retailers like Walmart would soon be admitted. And though Mr. Mukherjee did not cite it, he could just as easily have mentioned a proposal the cabinet is considering to let foreign airlines buy as much as a 49 percent stake in India's airlines.
''I urge you to seize this moment and contribute to our collective prosperity in the times to come,'' Mr. Mukherjee told his audience, the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. 
The flurry of activity by the Indian government has helped push Indian stock indexes up by 15 percent this year, and the rupee has climbed 8 percent against the dollar
Skeptics wonder, though, whether Indian politics will really allow Mr. Mukherjee and his boss, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, to force significant change on the nation's hidebound protectionism. But there is no question that after years of taking rapid economic growth for granted, the government is finally awakening to the need for new policies and greater foreign investment.
The change is occurring as analysts and India's central bank conclude that growth -- which was at 8.4 percent or higher for much of the last decade -- will fall sharply to 7 percent in the current fiscal year and remain sluggish in the next one, which begins in April.
The signs of new salesmanship from Mr. Mukherjee are a notable departure from his demeanor, and that of other Indian officials, for much of 2011, even as their economy was slowing and inflation was gathering steam. Preoccupied by a big anticorruption protest movement and internal bickering among politicians, officials tended to dismiss the gloomy data as unimportant or as temporary setbacks.
But this year, Indian leaders have begun publicly acknowledging the nation's economic problems.
''The growth slowdown was a nice wake-up call for us,'' Kaushik Basu, the chief economic adviser to the Finance Ministry, said in an interview.
Although Mr. Basu noted that some of the slowdown could be attributed to global economic problems, policy makers now recognize that ''decision making had slowed down, reforms had slowed down,'' he said. ''This has the saving grace of avoiding the trap of denial, which is always a risk in policymaking.''
And so officials are pushing ideas that would have seemed anathema just a few months ago -- including the proposal to let foreign airlines buy big stakes in Indian airlines. While nationalist sentiments have long blocked such a move, steep losses at some big airlines, including Kingfisher Airlines, Jet Airways and state-owned Air India, seem to be forcing policy makers to reconsider.
A new aviation minister, Ajit Singh, who joined the government in December, has been pushing the foreign investment proposal since a severe cash squeeze at Kingfisher late last year forced the airline to cancel scores of flights and delay paying salaries to pilots and other employees. Many analysts say the company, which is owned and run by the flamboyant liquor baron Vijay Mallya, probably cannot survive unless it finds new investors.
Before Kingfisher's troubles became big news, bureaucrats quibbled for months about whether foreign airlines should be allowed to buy stakes of about 25 percent. Current rules do not allow any investment by foreign airlines in Indian carriers -- although other foreign investors can own up to 49 percent. Soon, the Indian cabinet is expected to consider letting foreign airlines also invest at that level.
In January, the government began allowing retailers that sell just one brand of products, like Gap or Nike, to open wholly owned stores in India -- as long as they buy 30 percent of their goods from Indian artisans and small Indian companies.
The chief executive of Ikea, the Swedish furniture and furnishing retailer that has long hoped to set up stores in India, publicly balked at the 30 percent requirement, saying it might force Ikea to table its India plans. That prompted the Indian commerce minister, Anand Sharma, to meet in Paris with the Ikea chief, Mikael Ohlsson, hoping to allay his concerns.
It is unclear how effective that was, or what potential inducements Mr. Sharma might have offered. But according to the government's account of the meeting, Mr. Ohlsson told Mr. Sharma that he would soon return to India to speak to officials. An Ikea spokesman did not respond to a message seeking comment.
Investors and analysts said they were heartened by the single-brand decision, which was quickly followed by Starbucks's announcement that it would proceed with long-simmering plans to enter India -- even though its initial venture, this year, will be in collaboration with the Indian conglomerate Tata.
But many India watchers say they remain unconvinced that Indian leaders can push through bigger changes -- such as opening India to multibrand retailers like Walmart or revamping government policies that have prolonged market and agricultural inefficiencies by awarding $33.8 billion a year in subsidies for food, fuel and fertilizers.
The steps that have been taken indicate ''some appetite for economic reform,'' said Mark Martyrossian, a fund manager for Tiburon Partners, a London-based firm that has invested in Indian companies. But he predicted the process would be slow and painful because of the ''vested interests at play.''
Skeptics point to the politically disastrous effort by the government late last year to open India's $500 billion retail market to foreign companies.
Less than two weeks after Prime Minister Singh's administration announced that it would admit big retailers like Walmart and Tesco, it indefinitely suspended the decision. The reversal occurred after a Singh government ally -- the Trinamool Congress led by the firebrand politician Mamata Banerjee -- threatened to withdraw its support. Losing Ms. Banerjee's backing could have forced the government to hold new national elections more than two years ahead of schedule.
Ms. Banerjee and other opponents of the retailing plan argued that foreign merchants would hurt small shopkeepers. Proponents, including Mr. Mukherjee, the finance minister, struggled to make the counter argument that foreign supermarkets would help farmers who must sell their produce to an oligarchy of Indian wholesale traders.
''It's really going to be an uphill battle to convince investors that India is the place to come to,'' said Eswar S. Prasad, an economics professor at Cornell University who often advises the Indian government. ''The sense right now is that one politician's whims can very easily close arms that have been opened with great difficulty.''
Professor Prasad argued that India must further liberalize its economy and welcome foreign investors if it is serious about bolstering growth and creating more opportunities for its population of 1.2 billion.
Technocrats like Mr. Basu, the economic adviser to Mr. Mukherjee and also a professor at Cornell, agree with those recommendations in principle. But they have had difficulty convincing India's divided polity of the merits of that approach.
Much will depend on how Indians vote in elections for state legislatures under way in five states including Uttar Pradesh, India's largest, with 200 million people, and one of its poorest. A victory for the Congress Party, which rules in New Delhi but controls only two of the five states voting, could empower the government.
Soon after the elections, the results of which will be announced March 6, Mr. Mukherjee plans to present the government's budget for the coming fiscal year. Based on recent comments by the minister and his aides, some analysts expect him to act to rein in India's deficit, while proposing new economic changes.
Surjit Bhalla, an economist and fund manager in New Delhi who has long been critical of the government, predicted that India's slowing economy and ballooning deficit would force policy makers to change their approach.
''They have learned their lesson,'' Dr. Bhalla said. ''I have not been more optimistic on India than I am now in a long, long time.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 13, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about India's renewed efforts to attract foreign investment misstated the name of the organization that hosted a recent address by India's finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, to American executives. It is the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, not the World Affairs Council of Chicago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, the finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, courts investors in Washington. A store in Jalandhar that is a venture by Walmart and Bharti. Losses at Kingfisher and other Indian airlines led to a plan to let foreigners buy bigger stakes. A Nike store in New Delhi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICHOLAS KAMM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JAGADEESH NV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
AND SAJJAD HUSSAIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
The Bharti Walmart in Zirakpur is among stores supplied by Walmart, which had been barred from owning retail outlets in India. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRASHANTH VISHWANATHAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) CHARTS: Slower Growth . . .: INDIA'S GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT: Annualized rate
 . . . And Higher Inflation: INDIA'S INFLATION RATE: Year-over-year change (Source: International Monetary Fund) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); APPROVALS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); CORRUPTION (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: PRANAB MUKHERJEE (93%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%) PUNJAB, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



313 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and Values

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: It's the economic prospects, stupid. 

 BODY:
Some more about the whole values and the working class thing. You can say this for Charles Murray's ; he did do a fair bit of data crunching, producing results like this:
And he's not the only one to note that marriage rates have fallen sharply among less-educated Americans, whites as well as minorities:
But as David Frum says, it's odd how Murray dismisses the notion that declining opportunities rather than moral turpitude coming from mysterious sources might be responsible. Real wages for less-educated workers have fallen substantially, even as average incomes have continued to rise; maybe you think this shouldn't have had a demoralizing, family-values-undermining effect, but the reality is that it does.
And Larry Mishel points me to an even more striking example of how the payoff to working hard and playing by the rules has fallen off a cliff, the collapse of employment benefits:
So we've created a society in which many young people see no chance of ever achieving middle-class status; then we look at their failure to adhere to middle-class values, and declare that there must be some mysterious force corroding our morality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



314 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: To Envision Dodd-Frank's Future, Look to Its Predecessor

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: When Sarbanes-Oxley was passed in 2002, it was attacked almost exactly like Dodd-Frank is today. But for all the criticism, the law did help clean up American corporate accounting. 

 BODY:
As fears mount that Dodd-Frank, the financial overhaul law, is about to be emasculated, it's worth reflecting on the 10-year anniversary of a major regulatory success.
I'm speaking of the mocked, patronized and vilified Sarbanes-Oxley, the law that cleaned up American corporate accounting.
SOX, as it's known, was a response to an epidemic in corporate accounting fraud that swept American business in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Because the 2008 financial crisis dwarfs that earlier round of scandal, it's easy to forget how rotten things were, said Broc Romanek, editor of TheCorporateCounsel.net, a site devoted to securities law and corporate governance. "Everyone had lost faith in the numbers put out by big public companies," he said.
Cast your mind back. The scandals erupted in some of what were supposed to be the best, most recognizable companies in America. Enron and WorldCom were the two biggest names and the two biggest failures. Tyco and Adelphia were in the second tier. But there were appalling accounting disgraces at HealthSouth, Rite Aid and Sunbeam. Waste Management and Xerox barely survived theirs.
Today, there are certainly debates about stocks and their valuations - and some questionable accounting - but no company that finds itself under scrutiny now is anywhere near as large, respected or celebrated as those were then.
Something else characterized those dark days: the frauds often lasted and lasted. Investors known as short-sellers, who make money when stocks collapse, waged battles for years over certain companies. Today, accounting disputes are finished before they start. An accounting scandal at Groupon, the online coupon company, came and went in a matter of weeks back in the fall - resolved by the regulators before the company went public.
When SOX was passed, it was attacked almost exactly the way Dodd-Frank is today. Sarbanes-Oxley got "horrible press," said Jack T. Ciesielski, who edits The Analyst's Accounting Observer. People mocked it for requiring companies "to flowchart the keys to the executive washroom," he said. But the result is that accounting at American companies is much cleaner today.
The main criticisms of the law haven't panned out. Corporate earnings have soared, and no company has ever missed a quarterly estimate because it was spending too much on its accounting and internal controls.
Critics railed that it would cost small companies too much, which it may have, though the evidenceis debated. They also argued that it would hurt initial public offerings, which it didn't. Yet, there remains vestigial criticism from the right; Newt Gingrich called for its repeal the other day on the campaign trail.
Is Sarbanes-Oxley perfect? Of course not. The financial crisis included accounting problems. The books of the American International Group, Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch misrepresented the true state of the companies. The auditors have managed to skirt blame - even more so than other gatekeepers, like the ratings agencies, have. But at its heart, the financial crisis wasn't an accounting scandal. It was a bubble, albeit one exacerbated by some book-cooking.
But the evidence in SOX's favor is that one big dog didn't bark. Even as the financial panic turned into the Great Recession, corporate America weathered the worst of the downturn without a series of major accounting frauds.
SOX required that chief executives and chief financial officers personally sign off on their companies' financial statements. That seems minor. No doubt a Madoff wouldn't be deterred by a little dissembling signature. But blackhearts aren't the typical accounting fraudsters.
At huge corporations, corruption usually develops slowly, incrementally, starting with a minor crossing of the line. At the end of a quarter, a sale is booked before it was actually ordered - to make the numbers for Wall Street. Over time, the fraud builds on itself and it's easier to keep the game going than to clean it up.
Requiring a step where the top dogs actually have to mark the books as their own territory halts that process. It steels their concentration and improves the culture, preventing those initial halting steps toward fraud.
The accounting industry has been improved as well. The new SOX-created industry overseer, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, has made inroads. Accountants have done a better job, remembering the devastating collapse of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen in the wake of the Enron debacle.
SOX wasn't the only factor in this cleanup, of course. The accounting trials of the early 2000s made a cultural mark. Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling of Enron, the Tyco fraudsters L. Dennis Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz and Bernard J. Ebbers of WorldCom all had their day in court. All the world, including their executive peers, watched them go from their mansions to the big house.
Is there a lesson to draw here for the prospects of Dodd-Frank? The new law is more sweeping, more pilloried and more complicated. It is concentrated on one industry, which allows for a more unified opposition. Importantly, a round of perp walks and prison terms didn't accompany the law. Quite the contrary, the people responsible for the greatest economic collapse since 1929 have all danced away untouched.
But for all of the criticisms of Dodd-Frank, there has been a societal change in our views. Few can sustain an argument in favor of a gigantic, self-serving and rapacious financial sector. Some kind of financial reform law was - and still is - needed.
If lawmakers don't gut Dodd-Frank, then 10 years from now we just might be reflecting on how safe our financial system is.

        
Despite Worries, Serving at the Top Carries Little Risk
        
Punishing Lawyers in Corporate Frauds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (69%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (63%); RETAIL COUPONS (54%) Adelphia Communications; American International Group; Dodd-Frank Act; Enron; Groupon; Lehman Brothers; Merrill Lynch & Co; Newt Gingrich; Sarbanes-Oxley Act; Tyco International; WorldCom; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Legal/Regulatory; The Trade

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (55%); GROUPON INC (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); HLS (NYSE) (55%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (55%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (55%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (55%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



315 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: Walmart says the Great For You icon on some of its products will help shoppers identify more healthful foods. The Center for Science in the Public Interest questions some of the choices. -- Nick Fox
Esquire: Wait. Is the world's best burger being made in ... Japan? -- Jeff Gordinier 
Insatiable Critic: In her largely favorable take on Stephen Starr's new Caffe Storico restaurant in the New-York Historical Society, which she calls "spottily Venetian," Gael Greene wonders why Danny Meyer "wasn't the designated driver here," speculating that "maybe he didn't want to compete with himself at Shake Shack two blocks away." -- Glenn Collins
The Washington Post: How the garlicky, spicy food from Georgia helped the author get through a dreary stint in Moscow. -- Julia Moskin
: The three biggest lies in wine, according to Matt Kramer, who's heard them all. -- Eric Asimov
Epicurious: Eating mindfully (as explained by Jeff Gordinier on our Dining cover this week) may lead to weight loss, but merely measuring your food may not. A study showed that eating of smaller plates didn't translate into eating less. -- Patrick Farrell 
Fork in the Rhode: In Cranston, R.I., the strange yet irresistible "New York System Weiner" is alive and well. -- Julia Moskin
Edible Manhattan: A profile of Jenny Lefcourt, whose company Jenny & Francois, is one of the leading importers of natural wines in the United States. -- Eric Asimov 
Newsweek: Can you guess which part of the world represents a new booming market for inauthentic "American" Chinese food? That's right: China. (One hitch, though: The Chinese seem to have no idea what to make of fortune cookies.) -- Jeff Gordinier
National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition: An interesting view of the upcoming Farm Bill debate, from the vantage of Little Agriculture. -- Nick Fox 
Zagat Buzz: You surely have your own list of New York's most overrated food icons (mine includes bagels). Zagat's features street pretzels, Vanessa's Dumpling, Arthur Avenue and Brighton Beach. ... 
The Washington Post: ... And in its continuing deconstruction of 21st-century lifestyle icons (yesterday it was granite countertops), the Post takes apart the cupcake. -- Patrick Farrell 
The Journal News: The macaron craze has hit suburbia. -- Jeff Gordinier 
ArtsBeat: Wendell Berry, writer, farmer and advocate for sustainability, will deliver the Jefferson Lecture in the Humanities at the Kennedy Center, the most prestigious federal honor for intellectual achievement in the humanities. -- Nick Fox 
The Believer: A fascinating quest for the essence of white bread. -- Jeff Gordinier
The Economist: Seems that the daughters of the chaebol, the plutocratic conglomerates that dominate the Korean economy, are causing no end of controversy by operating high-end cake and cupcake shops across South Korea, competing with existing merchants and hiring their employees. Their intrusion is increasingly being condemned as a "hobby business for rich girls" that threatens the livelihood of poor shopkeepers. -- Glenn Collins 
Eatocracy: Sure, that kitchen pampers its steaks, but how does it treat its staff? A new guide rates restaurants -- mostly national chains -- by their labor practices, from base pay to paid sick days. -- Patrick Farrell
The San Francisco Chronicle: A man is sentenced to 27 years in prison for the arson destruction of a warehouse holding 4.5 million bottles of fine wine. -- Eric Asimov
Details: Do you have an acid body? Expect a glare or two in Hollywood, where the latest celebrity fad is an "alkaline" diet that has something to do with regulating the body's pH levels ... 
Poetry Foundation: ... Meanwhile, William Matthews, the poet, explores the headspace of a man vowing to stick to a diet. Good luck with that, man. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); DIETING (78%); HISTORY (76%); NUTRITION (73%); WRITERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (67%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (62%); AGRICULTURE (62%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR SCIENCE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST (84%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



316 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Hyundai Spins Off Two Elantra Variants at Chicago Auto Show

BYLINE: PAUL STENQUIST


HIGHLIGHT: The Korean automaker continues to fill out its model line with cars that slot below its Sonata sedan. 

 BODY:
Hyundai introduced two new body styles for its brisk-selling Elantra in Chicago on Wednesday: the 2013 Elantra GT four-door hatchback and Elantra Coupe. The offerings will join the Elantra sedan in the cutthroat compact segment, a class that includes the Ford Focus, Honda Civic, Chevrolet Cruze, Volkswagen Golf, Mazda 3 and Subaru Impreza, among others. 
With Elantra sales exceeding expectations, the automaker has had difficulty meeting demand. As such, the Elantra variants will be assembled in South Korea, unlike the sedan, which is built for the North American market at Hyundai's plant in Montgomery, Ala.
The Elantra Coupe is scheduled to arrive at dealerships in spring, with the hatch joining it this summer.
Though the Elantra Coupe shown in Chicago was a new design, the GT was essentially the i30 hatchback shown at the Frankfurt auto show last September. The sedan was introduced at the 2010 Los Angeles auto show and named North American Car of the Year at the Detroit auto show last month.
Shoppers may find that the automaker's so-called fluidic sculpture design language translates particularly well to a coupe. The front fascia sweeps back into a pronounced fender well, which melds with a character line sweeping up toward the rear deck and lip spoiler. A smooth arc is formed by the windshield and roof.
The GT, which replaces the discontinued Elantra Touring wagon, receives a less aggressive fascia treatment, in addition to a beltline dip that allows for larger front side windows and a roofline that dips only barely as it approaches the rear hatch.
With all seats raised, the GT accommodates five, but with the split rear seats folded, the hatchback offers crossover-rivaling cargo space, Hyundai says.
Both coupe and hatchback share the sedan's powertrain, a 1.8-liter 4-cylinder engine that develops 148 horsepower, and the choice of a 6-speed manual or 6-speed automatic transmission. Final fuel economy numbers are not yet available from the Environmental Protection Agency, but Hyundai estimates 28 miles per gallon in city and 39 m.p.g. in highway driving for the hatch and the automatic-equipped coupe. Equipped with the manual transmission, the coupe is expected to achieve 29 m.p.g. city, 40 m.p.g. highway.
All Elantra models are suspended on McPherson struts up front and a torsion beam at the rear. The coupe's suspension calibration has been tuned for sportier driving. Its interior also nods to the car's more sporting pretensions, with deeper side bolsters than those in the sedan or hatchback, to keep driver and passenger snug.
The GT, at 2,784 pounds, is 175 pounds lighter than the Ford Focus, 151 pounds lighter than the Mazda 3 and 222 pounds lighter than Volkswagen Golf, Hyundai says. It is also the shortest of the Elantra trio, at 169.3 inches, while the coupe is roughly a half-inch longer than the sedan, at 178.7 inches. The coupe and sedan share a 106.3-inch wheelbase, but the hatchback rides on a 104.3-inch wheelbase.
Prices will be announced closer to the cars' on-sale dates.

        
Ford Shelby GT500 Convertible: A Summertime Snake in Midwinter Chicago
        
Nissan Unveils Mildly Refreshed 370Z Ahead of Debut at Chicago Auto Show
        
2012 Volkswagen Beetle TDI: Oil-Burning Bug to Have Debut at Chicago Auto Show
        
Wheelies: The Extended Wheelbase Edition
        
Hyundai Elantra Is Car of the Year; Range Rover Evoque Is Truck of the Year

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (74%); SPORTS CARS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (50%) Chicago auto show; Hyundai Elantra; Automobiles; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact and Microcars); Hyundai Motor Co; Chicago (Ill); Auto Shows; New Cars

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Hyundai Motor Co

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (77%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



317 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Supporting Bad Habits With Public Money

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Restricting what recipients of food stamps and other government support may buy doesn't seem to work, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
Florida and a few other states are considering additional restrictions on food stamp and welfare payments to the poor, such as prohibiting the purchases of snacks and sweets with food stamps and prohibiting withdrawals of welfare cash at casinos and strip clubs.
Economists have two basic principles they use in these cases: fungibility and screening, and both point to unintended consequences of the sin-based restrictions.
The principle of fungibility says that dollar bills are equivalent, regardless of their source. If a customer brings in his wallet $100 he received from the government and another $100 from a job, the cashier at the store cannot tell whether the customer is spending his government money or his employer money.
For many years, the Department of Agriculture tried to affect this situation by making the government "money" a different color - that's why they were called food stamps - and merchants were not permitted to accept food stamps for alcoholic beverages, tobacco and other prohibited items.
But there is hardly any difference between giving somebody $20 to buy beer and giving that same person $20 earmarked for food, because the earmarked funds allow her to spend $20 less of her own money on food, leaving $20 left to buy beer, if she wants. Earmarked funds can be as good as unrestricted money.

The only situation when food stamps could really increase food purchases is when the value of stamps exceed what beneficiaries would be willing to spend on food on their own. The Department of Agriculture, which runs the food-stamp program, estimates that only 30 percent of beneficiaries are in this situation.
The same analysis applies to proposed restrictions on snacks and sweet foods. A family receiving a $200 monthly food-stamp benefit that spends $300 a month in total on all food - $200 of food stamps plus $100 of its own - can still buy its usual monthly amounts of snacks and sweet foods under the more restrictive rules, as long as the snacks and sweets part of the monthly food bill is no more than $100.
Perhaps a few food-stamp beneficiaries, absent restrictions, spend a large fraction of their food budget on snacks and sweets (I am not aware of any U.S.D.A. analysis of the frequency of such cases). They would find the food-stamp program less attractive and might even let some of their food stamp benefits go unused. 
The U.S.D.A., or specific states like Florida that put additional restrictions in place, could respond by increasing the total food-stamp benefit, but that brings about another unintended consequence, counterproductive screening.
The principle of screening recommends introducing program attributes that are more attractive to the target population than to the rest of the population or attributes that are less unattractive to the target population than to the rest of the population. 
For example, a public housing project intended for poor members of a particular ethnic group might be built in the poor part of that group's neighborhood, even if there might be other places to build more efficiently, so that the project is more accessible to the target population and less accessible to others.
The food-stamp program, like much of the social safety net, is intended for the poor. Most Americans, even many whose incomes are temporarily low, are not poor. As a result, the program needs methods for distinguishing households that are truly poor from households that are not. It used to have an "asset test" - people with money in the bank and other non-trivial financial assets were not eligible - but most states have eliminated that test in the last few years.
If it were true that preference for snacks and sweets are correlated with poverty - that people who are not poor allocate more of their food budget to "healthy" foods - then the snacks and sweets restriction tends to make food stamps less attractive for the poor, but not less attractive for those not poor. The result could be that the snacks and sweets restriction increases the fraction of beneficiaries for whom the program is not intended.
By definition, the economic principles of fungibility and screening do not account for an important political principle - that the food-stamp program and other safety-net programs must continue to have political support, so that Congress and the states continue to be willing to allocate tax dollars to them. That's the only justification I see for taking aim at the poor with restrictions on purchases of snacks, sweets and other items thought to be bad for you.

        
The Sharp Increase in the Food Stamps Program
        
Testing for Need
        
Welfare Reform Revisited
        
Will the I.R.S. Be Busy Next Year?
        
The Biggest Cut in Unemployment Benefits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; fast food; Food Stamps; politics; Poverty; Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; welfare; Agriculture Department; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Agriculture Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



318 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Expats Flock to India Seeking Jobs, Excitement

BYLINE: SRUTHI GOTTIPATI


HIGHLIGHT: Professionals fleeing slow-growth developed economies are landing in India. 

 BODY:
It's movie night at Thomas Mehwald's house in the Indian capital of Delhi and he's showing a Rainer Werner Fassbinder flick to his eclectic group of friends. The film is perhaps the only German import at his Gulmohar Park house - besides Mr. Mehwald and his family. The 33-year-old economist, who's been living in India for the last two years with his wife and son, has embraced the country since he first set eyes on it.
''You discover in this chaos there's order, which I still haven't understood,'' said Mr. Mehwald, 33, with a laugh and a swig of his Kingfisher beer, a ubiquitous brand in India. Although the chaos contrasts starkly to his life in Germany, he's been able to find his footing here; he recently negotiated with wily brokers to rent a new apartment without getting ripped off -- a surefire sign he's acclimatized.
Mr. Mehwald is an advisor at Sa-Dhan, a nonprofit that works to build community development finance, which is at a critical stage in India. He said his job is a terrific learning opportunity he didn't want to miss.
''The future is here,'' said Mr. Mehwald, who talks with a strong Indian cadence in his voice when he speaks in English. ''I know they'll be many innovations coming out of this country.''
Mr. Mehwald is part of a growing number of expats flocking to India in the last few years eager to tap into the opportunities the country has to offer, witness its rich transformation and sample a way of life often very different from their native countries. Foreigners, of course, have flocked to India for centuries, as colonizers, missionaries, volunteers and escapees from persecution in other countries. This new wave is made up mostly of well-educated migrants from wealthier, more developed countries, leaving behind slow economies in search of job prospects and opportunities they can't find at home.
''I thought it would be a good adventure,'' said Shannon Lee Zirkle-Prabhakar, 27, an American photojournalist who moved to Chennai last April with her husband. She said she had visited India once before, in 2005, but doesn't remember seeing as many expats then. ''I notice more now.''
Although government agencies weren't able to provide figures for the total number of foreigners in India, the Ministry of Home Affairs offered numbers that paint a stark portrait.
At the Indian consulate in San Francisco alone, the number of visas granted to Americans to work in India almost doubled, from 23,085 in 2009 to 47,929 in 2010. And those numbers don't include Americans of Indian origin who have applied for special visas. In the same period in Beijing, there was a 51 percent jump to 32,932 Indian work visas granted. In the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, that increase was 27 percent to 20,550; in Shanghai, a 30 percent rise to 24,382.
Other countries across the globe reflected the same trend. The number of Indian work visas issued in Singapore soared by 33 percent from 21588 in 2009 to 28650 in 2010. In Europe, the Indian visa office in Paris doled out 41 percent more work authorizations in the same period, while Berlin saw 48 percent more Germans clamor to work in India, granting 49,104 visas.
Analysts attribute the relative strength of India's economy and foreign companies continued interest in India, for some of this rise.
''There's been a lot of development in the last three years. India was one of the very few countries insulated from the economic crisis,'' said Dr. Soumya Kanti Ghosh, director, economics and research, at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the nation's premier business lobbying group. He credits strong external demand and robust growth for investors to see potential in the market.
Not all who come to India intend to stay for long periods of time. For instance, in Seoul, where the number of visas granted to South Koreans to work in India tripled from 10,030 in 2009 to 31,440 in 2010, officials say that many only make short trips just to manage their business interests.
Still, most expats are here to stay - at least for a while.
Those who plan to live in India for more than six months need to register themselves in the country with the Foreigners Regional Registration Officers. While 35,973 U.S. citizens (not including those eligible for special visas available for Americans of Indian origin) registered in 2008, 41,938 did so the following year, according to the latest figures available with the Ministry of Home Affairs. Expats from Britain, France, Germany and Korea contributed to a similar rise.
''There's a definite change,'' said Francis Wacziarg, 69, a Frenchman who moved to India in 1970 and has been living here since, and who's seen a surge of foreigners over the last few years who aren't all tourists. ''Now it's more people who want to settle down and work either for a company or set up their own business.''
When Mr. Wacziarg first came to India as the commercial attache of the French embassy, he said there were hardly any foreigners living here. When he tried to set up a consultancy firm advising foreign companies on buying exports from India in 1978, he approached government officials in Mumbai and Delhi to make a case for himself because foreigners weren't allowed to work in many fields or set up business in the country at that time. That changed with the liberalization of the Indian economy in 1991 and India gradually warmed up to foreigners.
Mr. Wacziarg today owns an export agency, a nonprofit music foundation and is co-chairman of the Neemrana hotel chain.
One of the other areas that has seen an influx of expats is the media world. In journalism schools in the US, graduates are encouraged to come to India because of mushrooming media organizations, vigorous newspaper circulations and a relatively free press. Many professionals with a nose for adventure looking to leave saturated Western markets are attracted to India.
''There's really been a sense of limitless horizons. There's very little to restrain you. People's ambitions are set very high and rightly so,'' said Rodrigo Davies, 29, who moved to Mumbai two years ago to work as GQ's online editor after seven years as a journalist in London.
''In terms of opportunities, London is always innovating. But the number of businesses, publications opening there is a fraction of what's opening here. A lot of companies here are going digital straight away.''
With the soaring number of foreigners, Mr. Davies describes what seems almost like a thriving expat subculture in India. He said there's a new restaurant or high-end boutique opening every other week in Mumbai and once a group of expats start talking about it, word spreads through the community quickly.
Belgian chain Le Pain Quotidien, The Table, which serves international cuisine, and French creperie Suzette, are some of the eateries in Mumbai that are familiar to expats, said Mr. Davies.
''You would see a disproportionate number of expats in these places.''
Last year, French Tuesdays, an international club, reportedly drew scores of expats when it held its first event in Mumbai.
Meanwhile in Delhi, a moderated Yahoo group used by expats called Yuni-Net is rife with postings on topics ranging from available apartments to pleas to figure out India's notorious bureaucracy.
It has yet to be seen whether the number of expats pouring into India will continue. The slowing economic expansion in the country this year, as well as new rules introduced by the government could serve as dampeners.
Foreigners must now earn the equivalent of $25,000 per year in order to be considered for employment visas, which they say is often an unrealistic figure, particularly if they don't have much work experience or have a job in low-paying fields like India's huge non-profit "industry." Some, as a result, have to work for free, which limits their ability to stay in India.
The earning requirement is perhaps also a reason why recent immigration to the country has been mostly from the educated, higher economic bracket. India also has poorer immigrants, mostly undocumented, from countries that border it such as Bangladesh and Myanmar.
Expats might stick on though, irrespective of the new regulations. Real estate prices have shot up in Delhi neighborhoods widely considered magnets for expats. In Defence Colony, a South Delhi locality, multi-storey apartments cost 26,884 rupees per square foot in 2010, compared to 19,222 rupees in the same period in 2009, according to the property Web site magicbricks.com.
In the more exclusive area of Jor Bagh, that number rose from 37,541 rupees to 48,561. And apartments which cost 22,978 rupees per square foot commanded a 20 percent higher price tag in Vasant Vihar in just the span of a year.
This may be because there are still many factors that keep India an attractive destination including the prevalence of English and a culture where most people on the streets are willing to be helpful to the bumbling expat.
Mr. Mehwald, the German economist, said he's even found himself becoming more gregarious than he was back in Berlin.
The trick to live in India, he said, is to ''take things as they are.'' That and not to trust brokers too quickly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); MIGRANT WORKERS (71%); FOREIGN LABOR (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (60%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (50%) Fassbinder, Rainer Werner; Migrant and Foreign Workers; Yahoo! Inc; India; Yahoo! Inc|YHOO|NASDAQ

ORGANIZATION: Yahoo! Inc

TICKER: Yahoo! Inc; YHOO; NASDAQ

PERSON: Fassbinder, Rainer Werner

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (64%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



319 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Deep Freeze Brings the Wolf to Europe's Door, Literally and Figuratively

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: The second week of the sometimes murderous cold snap poses the question: which is the greater threat to Europe, fracking or a dependence on Russia natural gas? 

 BODY:
LONDON - Scavenging wolves have been sneaking into hilltop villages in central Italy, with one sighted uncomfortably close to the gates of an elementary school.
Their ominous appearance should not be taken as yet another metaphor for European decline. The lupine intruders, like their human counterparts, have simply been responding to the extreme cold that has swept the Continent in the past week.
The deep freeze caused widespread disruptions and even fatalities, as Rendezvous reported at the weekend.
The effects of the cold have been compounded by shortages of natural gas, particularly from Russia, once again highlighting Europe's dependence on energy from the east. 
Wholesale natural gas prices have reached six-year highs in some markets and officials have announced emergency measures to ensure fuel supplies.
My colleague Andrew E. Kramer in Moscow explained the roots of the supply crunch last Friday, and noted, "The transit of Russian natural gas across former Soviet states to customers in Western Europe is a pivotal economic and security concern for the Continent."
One proposed route to greater European energy independence is tapping local natural gas supplies using the controversial technique known as hydraulic fracturing, which involves pumping vast quantities of water and chemicals into shale deposits in order to extract the gas trapped there.
Even in the United States, where "fracking" has transformed the energy landscape and the administration has welcomed the technology, projects have been held up by concerns about water supplies and chemical contamination. Opponents say that fracking damages the environment and scars the countryside.
In Europe, the introduction of fracking has received a mixed reception. France last year became the first country to outlaw the technology and set about revoking existing shale extraction permits. 
President Nicholas Sarkozy said the ban would remain in place until there was proof that shale gas exploration would not harm the environment or "massacre" the French countryside. 
In Poland, estimated to have the largest European reserves of shale gas, authorities have embraced a new technology that could free it from dependence on both dirty coal and Russian gas.
Proponents in Britain suffered a setback in public perceptions last year when an independent report revealed strong evidence that a series of minor earthquakes felt in the northern seafront resort of Blackpool were caused by fracking.
As the fracking debate heats up in Europe, environmentalists seeking a moratorium until more research is available have found an unlikely ally - Gazprom, the Russian energy giant. 
The very company that figuratively brought the wolf to Europe's door over the past week by trimming gas supplies has been warning about the consequences of fracking as an alternative to Russian natural gas.
As far back as two years ago, Alexander Medvedev, head of Gazprom exports, told a press conference in London: "Not every housewife is aware of the environmental consequences of the use of shale gas. I don't know who would take the risk of endangering drinking water reservoirs."
In Bulgaria, which boasts that it has 100 years of shale gas reserves, Gazprom is accused of putting the squeeze on the authorities to bow to popular demands for a fracking moratorium last month that would perpetuate the country's dependence on Russian supplies.
Traicho Traikov, Bulgaria's economy and energy minister, said street protests had been organized through a large-scale PR campaign, backed by substantial financial interests that constituted an unnamed "motivated elite".
Bulgaria's right-wing Union of Democratic Forces this week said anti-fracking protests were linked to Russian strategic interests, claiming: "It is obvious that Gazprom is serving the same role that the Soviet Army served some decades ago."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); WHOLESALERS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); WATER QUALITY (63%) Hydraulic Fracturing; Natural Gas; Gazprom; Europe; Russia; Energy; View From Europe

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Gazprom

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) EUROPE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); POLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Europe; Russia

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



320 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: A Lawsuit Accuses Relativity Media and Fortress of Fraud

BYLINE: MICHAEL CIEPLY


HIGHLIGHT: The suit charges that a complicated financial transaction involving the producer of "Salt" and "Paul Blart: Mall Cop" and Citibank cut an investor out of $44 million. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - In a lawsuit filed here Wednesday, Aramid Entertainment Fund, a film investor, said Relativity Media and its backer Fortress Investment Group defrauded it of at least $44 million in connection with a slate of past and future films from Sony Pictures Entertainment.
The 48-page complaint was filed with the Los Angeles County Superior Court. It described the inner workings a financial deal under which Citibank, before the 2008 financial crisis, committed $525 million to an investment fund run by Relativity and its chief executive Ryan Kavanaugh, but recently bargained its way out because of pressure from Federal officials to liquidate risky media loans.
Sony and Citbank are not named as defendants in the suit. In an e-mail, Mr. Kavanaugh said he had not yet read the complaint and declined to comment. A spokesman for Fortress did not immediately respond to a query.
In recent years, Relativity has backed dozens of films at both Sony and Universal Pictures through its Beverly investment funds. It has since acquired both the Rogue and Overture film operations, while branching into distribution with films like "Immortals" and "Haywire," and receiving a $14.5 million cash infusion from Fortress.
Fortress simultaneously paid Citibank $113.5 million for notes with a balance of $226 million, according to the suit. In all, according to the complaint, the transactions left Fortress with a profit of about $81.6 million, while wiping out $44 million in loans and accrued interest that were due Aramid as a so-called "mezzanine" lender in a deal that had backed Sony films like "Salt," "Paul Blart: Mall Cop," and the yet-to-be-released "21 Jump Street."
In its filing, Aramid described the Relativity-Fortress alliance as "one of the greatest heist stories ever told in the movie business." It backed the claim with a minute description of dealings in which Mr. Kavanaugh became a major film financier even though his company "did not have its own funds," then collected credits and fees on films that, in the aggregate, fell short of a projected return to Aramid.
As the film slate failed expectations, said Aramid's complaint, Sony rebuffed Citibank's attempt to avoid funding new movies, though Aramid argued that new films might provide major hits that would boost the entire slate.
Ultimately, Fortress persuaded Sony executives to terminate future obligations of the Beverly slate by agreeing to give up $6 million in payments from the first ten years of film sales, and an additional $216 million from the next 20 years of sales to television, home video and digital services.
The reduced terms, said Aramid, wiped out its own prospects for repayment, while enabling Fortress - which had earlier examined the Beverly deal while considering a transaction with Aramid - to cut deals with Citibank and Relativity.

        
Ischia Global Film & Music Festival Gives Award to Relativity Media

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Aramid Entertainment Fund; CitiBank; Fortress Entertainment; Relativity Media; Ryan Kavanaugh; Kavanaugh, Ryan; Movies; Suits and Litigation; Fortress Investment Group L.L.C; Sony Corporation; Universal Pictures; Fortress Investment Group L.L.C|FIG|NYSE; Sony Corporation|SNE|NYSE

COMPANY: FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (58%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Fortress Investment Group L.L.C; Relativity Media; Sony Corporation; Universal Pictures

TICKER: FIG (NYSE) (58%) Fortress Investment Group L.L.C; FIG; NYSE; Fortress Investment Group L.L.C; FIG; NYSE; Sony Corporation; SNE; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (58%)

PERSON: Kavanaugh, Ryan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



321 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Places Big Bets on Troubled Securities

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve Bank of New York sold securities with a face value of $6.2 billion to Goldman Sachs, which beat out four other investment banks in the auction. 

 BODY:
8:43 p.m. | Updated 
Goldman Sachs is picking up some of the pieces from the wreckage of the American International Group.
On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York announced that it had sold assets with a face value of $6.2 billion to Goldman, which trumped four other investment banks for the securities.
The auction - the second such sale this year - signals the renewed interest in mortgage-related investments and other risky securities at the center of the financial crisis. In recent months, banks, hedge funds and other big investors have been snapping up the bonds, betting on a rebound in their prices. 
 "There's a saying: there are no bad bonds, there are just bad prices," said Evan Lorenz, an analyst at Grant's Interest Rate Observer. "If you can get them at the right price, you can make a good amount." The A.I.G. assets, held in an investment vehicle known as Maiden Lane II, were acquired in 2008 as part of the insurer's taxpayer-financed bailout. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York created the vehicle - and financed it with a $19.5 billion loan - to absorb troubled securities sitting on the insurer's books.
In all, the government pumped more than $182 billion into A.I.G. to help stabilize the broader financial system. With the proceeds from this sale and a similar one last month, the New York Fed expects to recoup all of its money on Maiden Lane II by early March. The Treasury Department still owns nearly 77 percent of A.I.G. stock; the New York Fed has other outstanding loans related to A.I.G.
"I am pleased with the continued interest in these assets," William C. Dudley, the president of the New York Fed, said in a statement.
Goldman and other investment banks have been beneficiaries of the government's rescue of A.I.G.
To protect against potential losses on risky securities, Goldman and other firms had purchased billions of dollars of insurance from A.I.G., known as credit-default swaps. With A.I.G. on the brink of collapse in 2008, the New York Fed set up another investment vehicle - known as Maiden Lane III - to buy those troubled assets from the banks. The controversial deal, referred to as a backdoor bailout, allowed the banks to avoid losses on the securities.
Now, some of those banks are looking to profit as A.I.G. recovers.
Last year, A.I.G. tried to buy back $15.7 billion in bonds from the federal government. But the New York Fed rejected the offer in early 2011 in an effort to open up the auction process and bolster the potential return for taxpayers.
"After careful review, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System judged that the public interest in maximizing returns from any sale and promoting financial stability would be better served by an alternative approach to realizing value that is also more consistent with normal market practice," the New York Fed said in a statement at the time.
While the sales process got off to a rocky start amid market turmoil last summer, investor interest has since returned. In January, Goldman approached the New York Fed, offering to buy a chunk of assets from Maiden Lane II that had a face value of $7 billion. The Fed subsequently held an auction for the bonds, with Credit Suisse emerging as the top bidder. 
Credit Suisse quickly sold off the securities to clients, including hedge funds and other banks. Given the strong demand, the Swiss financial firm submitted an unsolicited bid to the New York Fed for another portion of A.I.G. assets, prompting the latest auction.
The auction attracted Barclays Capital, Morgan Stanley and the Royal Bank of Scotland, according to the Fed's statement. Ultimately, Goldman won out with a bid of an unspecified sum.
In a statement, the New York Fed said only that "the winning bid represented good value for the public." Profits from the sale will be reported on April 16 as part of Maiden Lane II's regular reporting schedule.
A Goldman spokesman declined to comment.
Bonds with a face value of roughly $6 billion still sit in the Maiden Lane II portfolio. The New York Fed said it would use BlackRock Solutions, the adviser hired to wind down the portfolio, to run a "a competitive sales process" for the remaining assets.
After the initial Maiden Lane II loan is paid back in March, any further proceeds will be split between A.I.G. and the New York Fed. The first $1 billion or so will go to the insurer's subsidiaries, with the government collecting the bulk of the remainder. The New York Fed's share will flow to the Treasury Department, as part of the normal operating process.

        
Collapse of A.I.A. Deal Would Cost Banks Big Fees
        
Banking on Big Fees From the A.I.G. Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); INSURANCE (87%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) A.I.G.; American International Group; Credit Suisse; Federal Reserve; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Goldman Sachs; Maiden Lane; American International Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (96%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (91%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (96%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (96%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



322 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Fed Delays Vote on Capital One Deal for ING Direct

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve postponed its meeting to vote on Capital One's $9 billion takeover of ING Direct until Monday. 

 BODY:
8:38 p.m. | Updated 
The Federal Reserve has postponed until Monday its plans to vote on Capital One's $9 billion takeover of ING Direct.
The Fed released a brief statementon Wednesday saying it had postponed a closed-door meeting about the deal, though it did not explain the cause of the delay.
According to Capital One, Fed officials attributed the switch to scheduling problems. But it is unclear whether the last-minute delay - announced less than an hour before the board was scheduled to meet - may also indicate dissent among the Fed's governors. Capital One needs support from a majority of the five governors to obtain approval.
"The board has informed us that the planned meeting for this afternoon has been rescheduled for Monday, Feb. 13," a bank spokeswoman said in a statement. "We understand that the delay is due to a scheduling conflict, and we look forward to their decision early next week."
Consumer groups that oppose the deal hit the Fed with about 100 phone calls on Wednesday to express opposition to the takeover, according to the National Community Reinvestment Coalition. The groups have also urged the Fed to make its deliberations public.
"We hope the postponement is a sign that the Federal Reserve is listening to issues they raised, and taking additional time to ensure the public understands how this deal will impact them," John Taylor, chief executive of the coalition, said in a statement.
In June, Capital One agreed to pay $6.2 billion in cash for the Dutch bank ING's online banking business in the United States. Capital One would also issue $2.8 billion worth of new shares to ING, giving it a 9.9 percent stake.
The deal has drawn the ire of community bankers and consumer advocates, who argue that it will create another "too big to fail" banking giant. Critics note that the deal will transform Capital One into the fifth-largest bank by deposits. Currently, it does not rank in the top 10.
Capital One counters that, unlike big banks on Wall Street, it sticks to the basic lending and deposit business.
But under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, the Fed must now weigh whether a bank merger would pose systemic risks to the economy. The central bank can block deals that are likely to cause more harm than good.
The much-anticipated vote on the Capital One deal was seen as the first significant test of that new authority. The Fed's decision could have an important impact on deal-making among banks, and the industry is watching to see whether the Fed spells out for the first time what constitutes a systemically risky acquisition.
The Fed did vote on Wednesday to approve an obscure deal between the Hana Financial Group and the Korea Exchange Bank, though the vote took place by e-mail.

        
Fed to Vote on Capital One Deal for ING Direct
        
Assailed for Subprime Loans, Capital One Defends ING Deal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); MERGERS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNET BANKING (68%); DIVESTITURES (64%); RANKINGS (62%) Capital One; Federal Reserve; ING Direct USA; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Capital One Financial Corporation; Federal Reserve System; ING Groep N.V; Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE; ING Groep N.V|ING|NYSE; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%); ING BANK FSB (58%); HANA FINANCIAL GROUP INC (50%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Capital One Financial Corporation; Federal Reserve System; ING Groep N.V

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); 086790 (KSE) (50%); 004940 (KSE) (50%) Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE; ING Groep N.V; ING; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



323 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Drug Costs Pose Smaller Financial Burden Amid Generic Boom

BYLINE: BRUCE JAPSEN


HIGHLIGHT: Americans are using more prescription drugs, but the financial burden of those drugs on families is falling, according to a new study. A big reason is the rise of generics. 

 BODY:
Thanks to greater use of generic drugs, the financial burden of prescription costs has become less of an issue for families in the United States, according to a new study by the RAND Corporation.
The study shows that the number of Americans living in a family that spent more than 10 percent of its income out of pocket on prescription drugs decreased from 2003 to 2008. The decrease in costs to families is in contrast to the preceding five-year period, from 1999 to 2003, when drug costs rose year after year and were a financial burden for an increasing number of families. 
The study, released Wednesday afternoon, is published in the February issue of Health Affairs, an academic journal.
The study examined people under the age of 65, which is generally when people obtain drug coverage under the Medicare health insurance program for the elderly. Researchers studied uninsured Americans as well as those with public and private insurance, defining families with a "high financial burden" as those that spent more than 10 percent of their income on out-of-pocket costs for drugs.
The number of Americans with this financial burden rose to 4.3 percent of the United States population, or 10.8 million people, in 2003, when researchers said the burden of drug costs peaked. This compares with 2.9 percent of the population, or 7.1 million people, in the same situation in 1999. 
Since 2003, the percentage of people living with a high cost burden fell to 3.1 percent of the population, or 8.3 million people, in 2008, the study showed.
"If prescription spending had not decreased, we'd be talking about an even higher overall burden for health care costs," said the study's lead author, Dr. Walid Gellad, who is a RAND researcher and an internist at the Veterans Affairs Pittsburgh Healthcare System. "There are still more than eight million people living in families with a high burden and drug prices are going up, but more people are being helped by taking cheaper drugs."
The study, which used data from the 1998 to 2008 Medical Expenditure Panel Surveys of the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, said drug costs slowed as employers and health plans began to provide incentives for choosing generics. For example, many health plans placed more expensive brand-name drugs into higher tiers on their preferred list of drugs, known as a formulary. Drugs in higher tiers have higher co-payments or deductibles, pushing consumers and their doctors to consider less expensive generic alternatives.
"The financial incentives put in by the marketplace worked to contain prescription spending, and that is a positive in this study," Dr. Gellad said. "Many insurers and employers went to tiered formularies in the last 10 years."
Americans also began to benefit from widely used brand-name drugs that lost their patent protection in recent years, like the cholesterol pill Zocor, which became open to competition from cheaper generic copies in 2006.
.
The RAND study showed that use of prescription drugs continued to increase even while the financial burden declined from 2003 to 2007. That, researchers say, is partly because of increased use of generic drugs, which can be 30 to 80 percent cheaper than branded ones, analysts say. 
Between 36 and 39 percent of Americans under 65 filled prescriptions with generic drugs from 1999 to 2003. By 2008, that share had risen to more than half, or 56 percent, who filled their prescriptions using generic drugs, the study showed. 
Americans, though, could still have reason to be concerned about future drug costs. For example, the study's authors said that state governments in need of cash have been looking to increase co-payments for people covered by state-run Medicaid health insurance programs for the poor. 
In addition, it remains unclear what kind of drug coverage will be offered by private health plans expected to participate in state-regulated insurance exchanges, which will be the primary choice for uninsured Americans as they look to purchase health benefits under federal health legislation.
"On the exchanges, plans are all going to have essential benefits, but no one has decided how generous the drug benefits are going to be," Dr. Gellad said. 

        
Labor Department Seeks Tougher Rules on 'Multiple-Employer' Plans
        
Inspecting Your Insurance Premiums
        
Obama Pushes More Competition on Biologic Drugs
        
Insurance Premiums Vary Widely Across States
        
Double-Digit Insurance Rate Increases Get More Scrutiny

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (94%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (93%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (92%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PRESCRIPTION FORMULARIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); WRITERS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (62%); PATENTS (50%) formulary; generics; health insurance; RAND Corporation; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic Brands and Products; Health Insurance and Managed Care; RAND Corp; Drug Industry

COMPANY: RAND CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: RAND Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



324 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Some Big Banks Offer Payday-Like Loans

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Some large banks make small loans, similar to payday loans, for customers with direct deposit. 

 BODY:
Some large banks are offering short-term loans akin to those offered by payday lenders, says a report from the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit group.
Payday loans are short-term advances of relatively small amounts, often with hefty fees, that are repaid when the borrower's paycheck arrives. Consumer advocates say the loans are extremely expensive compared with other forms of credit, like credit cards, and can often lead borrowers into a debt spiral they can't escape. The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau recently convened a public forumto gather information about payday lending by both banks and nonbanks.
Concern about payday loans has previously focused on storefront payday lenders where, according to the responsible lending center, fees can translate into annual interest rates of more than 400 percent. But the center's report looks at four big banks (Wells Fargo, U.S. Bank, Fifth Third and Regions) that also offer advances to customers who have their paycheck, or their benefits check, directly deposited into their checking accounts. More banks appear to be interested in offering the service, according to the report from the center, based in Durham, N.C.
The advances can be as large as $500, for which the bank charges a fee -- typically, $10 for each $100 borrowed. When the next scheduled direct deposit arrives, the bank deducts the advance, plus the associated fee. Usually, the advance must be repaid within 30 to 35 days. (In some cases, customers can pay back over a longer period of time).
The banks say the funds are meant to be used as a short-term solution to an emergency cash crunch, rather than a long-term way of managing your money. So what's the problem?
Consumer advocates say the loans are costly and encourage users to overspend. The average annual percentage rate for the bank advances -- assuming a fee of $10 per $100, for a typical loan outstanding for 10 days -- is 365 percent, the center's report says.
The annual rate drops to 120 percent for a loan term of one month, which is the maximum time such loans are typically left outstanding, the center's analysis found. Even so, an annual rate of 120 percent "is significantly more expensive than alternative credit products such as credit cards or consumer finance loans," the report notes. By comparison, the report notes, in the second quarter of last year, the average credit card interest rate was 13 percent.
Two of the banks -- Fifth Third and Regions -- cite an annual percentage rate of 120 percent in explanations on their Web sites. Fifth Thirduses the number, even though there is no interest rate associated with its advance product, its Web site says, "so our customers can compare the cost of using this product" against other forms of credit.
Regions, meanwhile, notes in its disclosure that customers who opt to pay their advance back over time will pay the fee, plus 21 percent interest. But if the fee also is taken into account and presented on an annualized basis, the cost of a cash advance "would be significantly greater than the APR of the periodic-rate interest alone and may be 120 percent or more."
"We are mindful of our responsibility to partner with our customers and we seek to establish an environment that encourages responsible lending and repayment," John Owen, senior executive vice president of consumer services at Regions, said in a statement after testimony at the financial protection bureau's hearing in Alabama last month. The bank started offering the loans, called Ready Advance, last May. (Repayment information from the Regions product is reported to credit bureaus, the bank says, and so may help consumers rebuild credit.)
A Wells Fargo spokeswoman says the bank doesn't provide an APR figure in its disclosures for the advances, which it has offered since 1994, because the associated fee doesn't change over time. If someone borrowed $300, the fee would be $22.50, regardless of when they pay it back. "It's a very transparent fee," she said. "The customer knows when they're getting the service what their charge is going to be."
Still, Wells Fargo, which charges $7.50 per $100 borrowed (which translates to 270 percent APR for a 10-day loan term, the center says), warns customers on its Web site that a direct-deposit advance can be costly. "It is important to note the service is an expensive line of credit intended to assist with short-term borrowing needs and is not recommended as a solution for your long-term financial needs," the site says.
Wells Fargo provides a comparison of the cost of the loan with other forms of credit, she said, so customers can evaluate their options.
A spokeswoman for U.S. Bank, Teri Charest, said in an e-mail that "an extremely small percentage" of its customers use the checking account advance feature, which is intended for emergency needs, like an unexpected medical expense or car repair. The bank limits how long customers can use the advance, to help them avoid becoming overextended, she said. Projecting an APR for advances "is not appropriate," she said, because the fee must be repaid with the next direct deposit. But, she said, each time customers use the advance, they receive a warning that it is "high cost credit" and meant for short-term needs.
Do you think the fees for direct-deposit advances are reasonable?

        
Chase Agrees to Settle Lawsuit on Overdraft Fees
        
Avoiding Monthly Balance Minimums on Checking Accounts
        
Using Dwolla to Send and Receive Money
        
Big Banks Struggle to Help Customers on Twitter
        
Pew Feature Illustrates Banks' Transaction Infractions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (94%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); RETAILERS (71%) Checking Accounts; Banking and Financial Institutions; Credit and Debt; Payday Loans; Fifth Third Bancorp; Regions Financial Corporation; US Bancorp; Wells Fargo & Company; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%) Fifth Third Bancorp; Regions Financial Corporation; US Bancorp; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%) Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (55%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



325 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Goldman's P.R. Chief to Retire

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Lucas van Praag, who oversaw public relations during one of the most tumultuous periods in the history of Goldman Sachs, is stepping down at the end of March. 

 BODY:
It's official - Goldman Sachs's public relations chief, Lucas van Praag, is retiring from the firm next month. 
Goldman's chief executive and chairman, Lloyd C. Blankfein, announced Mr. van Praag's departure on Wednesday morning in a memorandum to the firm.
"Lucas has played a critical role in helping the firm navigate through one of the most difficult and testing environments the firm has faced, particularly during the recent financial crisis and its aftermath," Mr. Blankfein said. "His strategic counsel and deep understanding of complex issues defined his career at the firm as did his warmth, natural inclusiveness and determination in the face of relentless demands."
Mr. van Praag, 62, has been at Goldman for more than a decade and oversaw public relations during one of the most tumultuous periods in the firm's history. During the financial crisis, Goldman's image took a huge hit. The firm, which once had a sterling reputation, became a symbol of greed and was blasted by politicians and Main Street critics alike for profiting from the collapse in housing prices. 
It is unclear who will succeed Mr. van Praag. The firm has been talking to Richard Siewert Jr., a former counselor to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, but Mr. Siewert has yet to be offered a job, according to a person briefed on the matter who was not authorized to speak on the matter. 
Below is a copy of the memo from Mr. Blankfein and Gary D. Cohn: 
After 12 years of outstanding service, Lucas van Praag, global head of Corporate Communications, will retire from the firm at the end of March. We are pleased that Lucas will continue to provide strategic advice as a consultant to Goldman Sachs.
Lucas joined the firm in 2000 as the director of Corporate Communications for Europe and later assumed oversight for Corporate Communications in Asia. He was named managing director in 2000 and partner in 2006. Lucas was a member of the European Management Committee and served on the Firmwide Business Practices Committee. Prior to joining the firm, Lucas was a partner at Brunswick Group, a financial public relations firm. He also spent 10 years as a banker at Bankers Trust Company in New York. He is a member of the board of FACES at New York University's Langone Medical Center and is a visiting fellow at Oxford University's Said Business School.
Lucas has played a critical role in helping the firm navigate through one of the most difficult and testing environments the firm has faced, particularly during the recent financial crisis and its aftermath. His strategic counsel and deep understanding of complex issues defined his career at the firm as did his warmth, natural inclusiveness and determination in the face of relentless demands. The countless hours he spent with external constituencies was matched by the time and attention he committed to all of us, explaining and engaging on important issues and trends. Lucas was a tireless advocate and we are pleased that we will continue to benefit from his judgment and experience. 
Please join us in thanking Lucas for his extraordinary contributions to the firm and wishing him, Miranda and their family the best in the future.
Lloyd C. Blankfein
Gary D. Cohn

        
Goldman at a P.R. Crossroads
        
'Twas the Week After Layoffs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); HOUSING MARKET (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); HOME PRICES (52%) Goldman Sachs; Lloyd Blankfein; Lucas van Praag; Richard Siewert Jr.; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (53%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



326 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: A Star Panel Debates Financial Crisis Prosecutions

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Eliot Spitzer, Lanny Breuer and Mary Jo White discuss at a New York University panel whether authorities had done enough to bring criminal cases in the aftermath of the financial crisis. 

 BODY:
Did felons get a free pass in the financial crisis?
That was the provocative title of a panel discussion at New York University School of Law on Wednesday, featuring a trio of bold-faced names in the white-collar world: Lanny Breuer, the head of the Justice Department's criminal division; Eliot Spitzer, the former governor and attorney general of New York; and Mary Jo White, the former United States attorney in Manhattan and now a white-collar defense lawyer at Debevoise & Plimpton.
Moderated by a New York University law professor, Neil M. Barofsky, a former federal prosecutor and inspector general of the Treasury Department's bank bailout program, the lunchtime session delved into whether authorities had done enough in the aftermath of the collapse.
 Evoking memories of the zealous prosecutor that he once was, Mr. Spitzer took a hard-line stance.
"There was significant deception and fraud that should be prosecuted," he said.
Mr. Spitzer argued, as he has before, that documents from Clayton Holdings, a due-diligence company retained by banks to analyze the credit quality of mortgages, would lead to criminal cases.
"Corporations are not held accountable," Mr. Spitzer said. "Wall Street persuaded us that they could regulate themselves. Self-regulation is complete hokum - it doesn't work, and will never work."
Mr. Breuer, the assistant attorney general, defended the Justice Department's record. He explained that, over the last three years, the government had indicted more than 2,000 people around the country for mortgage fraud.
"I just don't accept the fact that we haven't done anything," said Mr. Breuer, who pointed out that a team of government lawyers was currently in Houston, prosecuting the financier R. Allen Stanford on fraud charges.
As for the big banks, Mr. Breuer said that bringing criminal cases was challenging, as the government must prove every element of a crime beyond a reasonable doubt.
"Viscerally, I understand people want to see Wall Street executives being ushered out in handcuffs," Mr. Breuer said. "While I understand the desire, that's not enough."
Ms. White, the former prosecutor-cum-defense lawyer, echoed the note of caution.
"We must distinguish what is criminal from what is reckless behavior or bad business decisions and not bow to the frenzy," Ms. White said. "And I worry the frenzy overrides reason and judgment sometimes."
Mr. Barofsky asked Mr. Breuer about the new financial fraud task force announced in President Obama's State of the Union address last month. He questioned whether the new initiative, because it followed several prior task forces, amounted to little more than a marketing ploy by the White House.
Mr. Breuer defended the new group, saying that this time around the various law enforcement agencies had redoubled their efforts at cooperation and coordination.
"I spent two days with [New York attorney general] Eric Schneiderman, and candidly I probably wouldn't have had it not been for this task force," he said. "I spent all day at the S.E.C. and talked about these issues."
Ms. White and Mr. Spitzer were skeptical.
"The concern is that they announce the task force and there will be cases," she said. "It gets back to my frenzy concern. You don't want that in the system - that kind of pressure. You don't want the search for scalps to be the metric for success. Politics doesn't belong in this space at all, but it still is in the space."
"Creating a new task force doesn't do anything," Mr. Spitzer said.
Mr. Breuer expressed frustration at the views of his fellow panelists.
"On the one hand we haven't done enough; on the other, task forces are too aggressive," he said. "But you can get it right."
Mr. Barofsky followed up by asking Mr. Breuer why Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, whose office has been out front in bringing securities-fraud prosecutions, wasn't on the task forces.
"Preet is a leader in this space and will continue to be," Mr. Breuer said. "I know he's heartbroken that there are a couple of meetings in Washington that he'd have to miss that might get in the way of his posing for the cover of Time magazine."
Without skipping a beat, Mr. Barofsky seized upon Mr. Breuer's playful jibe. He held up a copy of Time to the audience and read the magazine's cover line in a mock dramatic tone: "He is the man who busted Wall Street."
A previous version of this post misspelled the surname of the New York University professor who moderated the panel on the financial crisis. His name is Neil M. Barofsky, not Barofksy. 

        
The Feds Stage a Sideshow, While the Big Tent Sits Empty
        
A Renewed Focus on a Financial Crisis Crackdown

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (96%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FELONIES (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); EVIDENCE (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); GOVERNORS (56%) Barack Obama; Eliot Spitzer; Financial Crisis; Justice Department; Lanny Breuer; Mary Jo White; Preet Bharara; White-Collar Crime; Breuer, Lanny A; Spitzer, Eliot L; White, Mary Jo; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities and Commodities Violations; New York University; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (91%); CLAYTON HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%) Justice Department; New York University

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (94%); ELIOT SPITZER (93%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Breuer, Lanny A; Spitzer, Eliot L; White, Mary Jo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



327 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Whose Conscience?

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: Catholic hospitals are now claiming a special right to conscience that trumps law. 

 BODY:
 In the escalating conflict over the new federal requirement that employers include contraception coverage without a co-pay in the insurance plans they make available to their employees, opposition from the Catholic church and its allies is making headway with a powerfully appealing claim: that when conscience and government policy collide, conscience must prevail.
The rhetoric in which this claim is put forward grows more inflammatory by the day. "The Obama administration has just told the Catholics of the United States, 'To Hell with you!' " according to Bishop David A. Zubik of the Diocese of Pittsburgh. TheBecket Fund for Religious Liberty, a nondenominational organization that litigates on behalf of religious interests, is circulating a petition under the heading: "The Obama Administration is giving you one year to stop believing" (a reference to the one-year delay the regulation offers to religious employers). Mitt Romney, the likely Republican presidential nominee, joined the chorus this week, calling the regulation "a violation of conscience."
This aggressive claiming of the moral high ground is close to drowning out the regulation's supporters, inside and outside of the Obama administration. Maybe I'm missing something, but I haven't seen a comparably full-throated defense of the regulation, issued last month by the Department of Health and Human Services, except on pure policy grounds. (And there are indications this week that even some in the administration, or at least in President Obama's campaign apparatus, may be getting cold feet.) While the policy grounds are fully persuasive - the ability to prevent or space pregnancy being an essential part of women's health care, one that shouldn't be withheld simply because a woman's employer is church-affiliated - the purpose of this column is to examine the conscience claim itself, directly, to see whether it holds up.
An obvious starting point is with the 98 percent of sexually active Catholic women who, just like other American women, have exercised their own consciences and availed themselves of birth control at some point during their reproductive lives. So it's important to be clear that the conscientious objection to the regulation comes from an institution rather than from those whose consciences it purports to represent. (Catholic women actually have a higher rate of abortion than other American women, but I'll stick to birth control for now.) While most Catholics dissent in the privacy of their bedrooms from the church's position, some are pushing back in public. The organization Catholics for Choice, whose magazine is pointedly entitled Conscience, is calling on its supporters to "tell our local media that the bishops are out of touch with the lived reality of the Catholic people" and "do not speak for us on this decision."
But suppose the counter-factual - that only half, or one-quarter, or five percent of Catholic women use birth control. The question would remain: Whose conscience is it? The regulation doesn't require anyone to use birth control. It exempts any religious employer that primarily hires and serves its own faithful, the same exclusion offered by New York and California from the contraception mandate in state insurance laws. (Of the other states that require such coverage, 15 offer a broader opt-out provision, while eight provide no exemption at all.) Permitting Catholic hospitals to withhold contraception coverage from their 765,000 employees would blow a gaping hole in the regulation. The 629-hospitalCatholic health care system is a major and respected health care provider, serving one in every six hospital patients and employing nearly 14 percent of all hospital staff in the country. Of the top 10 revenue-producing hospital systems in 2010, four were Catholic. The San Francisco-based Catholic Healthcare West, the fifth biggest hospital system in the country, had $11 billion in revenue last year and treated 6.2 million patients.
These institutions, as well as Catholic universities - not seminaries, but colleges and universities whose doors are open to all - are full participants in the public square, receiving a steady stream of federal dollars. They assert - indeed, have earned - the right to the same benefits that flow to their secular peers. What they now claim is a right to special treatment: to conscience that trumps law.
But in fact, that is not a principle that our legal system embraces. Just ask Alfred Smith and Galen Black, two members of the Native American Church who were fired from their state jobs in Oregon for using the illegal hallucinogen peyote in a religious ceremony and who were then deemed ineligible for unemployment compensation because they had lost their jobs for "misconduct." They argued that their First Amendment right to free exercise of religion trumped the state's unemployment law.
In a 1990 decision, Employment Division v. Smith, the Supreme Court disagreed. Even a sincere religious motivation, in the absence of some special circumstance like proof of government animus, does not merit exemption from a "valid and neutral law of general applicability," the court held. Justice Antonin Scalia wrote the opinion, which was joined by, among others, the notoriously left wing Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.
A broad coalition of conservative and progressive religious groups pushed back hard, leading to congressional passage of the tendentiously titled Religious Freedom Restoration Act. It provided that a free exercise claim would prevail unless the government could show a "compelling" reason for holding a religious group to the same legal requirements that applied to everyone else. After a Catholic church in Texas invoked that law in an effort to expand into a landmark zone where no new building was permitted, the Supreme Court declared the Religious Freedom Restoration Act unconstitutional as applied to the states. The law remains in effect as applied to the federal government, although its full dimension remains untested.
Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican, sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder on Monday asserting that the contraception regulation violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, and it's not unlikely that one or more lawsuits may soon test that proposition. The question would then be whether the case for the mandate, without the broad exemption the church is demanding, is sufficiently "compelling." Such a case would pit the well-rehearsed public health arguments (half of all pregnancies in the United States are unintended, and nearly half of those end in abortion - a case for expanded access to birth control if there ever was one ) against religious doctrine.
The court has recently been active on the religion front. In a unanimous decision last month, the justices for the first time recognized a constitutionally-based "ministerial exception" from laws concerning employment discrimination. An employee deemed by a church to be a "minister" - in this case, a kindergarten teacher in a Lutheran school who had received ministerial training and taught some religion classes -cannot sue the church over an adverse employment decision, the court held in Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The plaintiff, supported by the federal government, had argued that the 1990 Employment Division v. Smith decision precluded the recognition of a ministerial exception from generally applicable employment laws. Rejecting that argument in his opinion for the court, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. explained: "But a church's selection of its ministers is unlike an individual's ingestion of peyote. Smith involved government regulation of only outward physical acts. The present case, in contrast, concerns government interference with an internal church decision that affects the faith and mission of the church itself."
That language is certainly suggestive of deference, beyond the employment area, to a church's doctrinal claims to special treatment. But while all nine justices signed the opinion, that doesn't necessarily mean that all nine would agree on its application to the contraception requirement. The question would be whether a church that has failed to persuade its own flock of the rightness of its position could persuade at least five justices.

        
Should Obama Have His Own Plan B?
        
Refused and Confused
        
Born Again in Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); WOMEN (89%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ABORTION (73%); PETITIONS (72%) birth control; Roman Catholic Church; Birth Control and Family Planning; United States; Linda Greenhouse

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



328 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Finally Hearing from the Republican Core

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum's three primary victories make perfect sense. He's the only candidate who truly reflects his party. 

 BODY:
Rick Santorum's three primary victories last night were the first ones in this campaign season that made some sense. At last, conservative voters united behind a candidate who actually resembles the Republican Party that Americans have come to know in the last three years.
The party that so despises government that it repeatedly tried to shut it down last year in Congress - or ruin its credit rating - is not truly represented by Mitt Romney or Newt Gingrich. Mr. Gingrich might enjoy closing Washington's doors out of a sense of pique or domination, but both men are far too invested in the city's power structure to shut it down out of a sense of belief.

Mr. Santorum is the only one of the three who can actually appear heartfelt when asserting, as he did today on Morning Joe, that "the central issue of the day is government oppressing and taking away our economic freedoms." For him, as for the true believers who now dominate his party, this isn't just a cynically crowd-pleasing line at a debate; he actually subscribes to the notion that the federal government is stalking its own citizens and mugging them of free choice, and he has for years.
It was all there in his victory speech last night in a suburb of St. Louis, which was structured in the classic paranoid style. Whether it is health care, the bank bailouts, or the environment, he said, an elitist President Obama deliberately ignored the American people and imposed an oppressive mandate that impoverished the country of its liberty.
"We have a president of the United States," he said, "who's someone who believes he knows better, that we need to accumulate more power in Washington, D.C., for the elite in our country, to be able to govern you because you are incapable of liberty, that you are incapable of freedom. That's what this president believes."
What counts when delivering this kind of nonsense, of course, is whether you can appear to share the same bone-chilling fear of government held by so many of the Republican voters in Missouri, Minnesota and Colorado. Mr. Santorum, unlike his rivals, clearly does. And he is the best in the field at suggesting that government authority is particularly noxious because it dares to replace religious authority.
"When the government gives you rights, unlike when God gives you rights, the government can take them away," he said. "When government gives you rights, the government can tell you how to exercise those rights."
But when the Catholic Church tells its tens of thousands of employees that they do not have the right to easy access to birth control, that is simply religious liberty, in his view. The church stands for freedom of conscience, he said, while Mr. Obama, in requiring access to contraceptives, "would roll over that and impose his secular values on the people of this country."
Churches telling people how to live: liberty. Government disagreeing: oppression. Like his followers, Mr. Santorum sees no contradiction there.
Mr. Santorum still lacks Mr. Romney's money and organization, but his fervency may at least have pushed aside one of the two conservative poseurs, Newt Gingrich. He deserves to become a real threat to Mr. Romney, because he better represents the extreme strain of his party that every day alienates a few more Americans who see some value in the collective effort known as government.

        
Rick Santorum's Adventures on the Loony Right
        
None Dare Call It Leadership
        
Rick Santorum and the Three Bears
        
And the Official Winner in Iowa Is ... Who Cares?
        
Class Warfare

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (88%); RELIGION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BAILOUTS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); CONTRACEPTION (60%); BANK FAILURES (50%) Rick Santorum; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (75%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



329 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Saying 'Ciao' to Italy's New Leader

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: The Obama administration, and the rest of Washington, is delighted to welcome Prime Minister Mario Monti after years of arms-length dealings with Silvio Berlusconi. 

 BODY:
What a difference a new face makes.
For three years, President Obama held Silvio Berlusconi at arm's length, treating Italy's flamboyant prime minister- he of the bunga bunga parties and the well-parsed sexual exploits- with a somewhat frozen correctness. While President Nicolas Sarkozy of France got cozy dinners with the Obamas at the White House and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany got a full state visit including a black-tie extravaganza at the White House, Mr. Berlusconi got a lone brisk visit to the Oval Office. And that was back in 2009, when Italy held the Group of Eight presidency, so meeting with Mr. Berlusconi was not exactly something Mr. Obama could avoid.
But now Italy has a new prime minister. Mario Monti is a darling of the international stage, viewed widely as a tough economist who just might be capable of instilling the global confidence that Italy needs to help pull it out of its financial crisis. What's more, Mr. Monti is, by all accounts, a staid European bureaucrat who appears to have no skeletons in the closet.
Washington is welcoming him with open arms. Italian officials have been fending off requests from the media and the diplomatic circuit, all looking for a piece of Mr. Monti. The hottest ticket in town this week is a dinner with the new prime minister planned for Thursday night at the glittering Villa Firenze, home to the Italian ambassador. 
On Thursday, Mr. Obama will welcome Mr. Monti to the White House with a formal bilateral session and a photo op. White House officials say the two men will talk about the global economy, structural reform, the debt crisis and Italy's "continuing leadership" in Afghanistan. Expect to hear a lot about the close personal relationship between the two countries.
Maybe Mr. Obama will even finally thank Mr. Monti for Italy's contribution to the Libya effort last year; something he noticeably failed to do while talking about Libya at the United Nations last September, an omission that had Mr. Berlusconi's aides fuming.
But it's a new day. "This is an important meeting," said Tommy Vietor, senior director at the National Security Council. "There are critical economic issues to be discussed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%) Monti, Mario; Italy; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%) Monti, Mario

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Italy

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



330 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: In Colorado, a Struggle Between Pragmatism and Passion

BYLINE: KIRK JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: For Mitt Romney, turnout was low in regions that would tend to favor him. 

 BODY:
GOLDEN, Colo. -- Enthusiasm for a candidate is often what swings a caucus, with its small number of voters. But in Colorado's Republican Party, the divide between traditional party pragmatists and the forces of passion - a local and potent brew of evangelical religion, antitax fervor and suspicion of anointed establishment front-runners - has become institutionalized.
Rick Santorum caught that wave on Tuesday. He did well where the ideological corner of the party is strong - notably Colorado Springs/El Paso County and Grand Junction/Mesa County in the West. Mr. Romney did well in places where traditional Republicans hold sway - notably the suburbs of Denver.
Turnout in the areas Mr. Santorum where did well held steady or was up slightly compared with turnout at the 2008 caucuses. In the bedrock areas of support for Mr. Romney that helped him win the 2008 caucus, by contrast, turnout declined. In the Denver suburbs, a Romney stronghold, turnout was down to 3,249 votes, versus 4,071 four years ago, blunting the edge for him.
Bad weather in Denver? Lukewarm support for Mr. Romney? Some combination that made sitting by the fire or watching reruns of "Glee," more appealing? Conditions on the roads and in school parking lots were certainly treacherous, and slips on the ice were observed in many places.

But there's also history: In 2010, the Republican Party's hand-picked nominee for the Senate, Jane Norton, was derailed, with a Tea Party favorite, Ken Buck, winning to the nomination. Mr. Buck was subsequently defeated by Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat.
In 2005, Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, drew the wrath of the party's ideological core by supporting a state referendum creating a time-out for a Taxpayer's Bill of Rights, a state constitutional amendment that strictly controls taxation and spending. Grover Norquist, the anti-tax crusader, called Mr. Owens politically dead.
"This guy stood in front of a train,'' Mr. Norquist said at the time.
Mr. Owens, a co-chairman of the Romney campaign in Colorado, said Wednesday that divisions in the party were temporary. The opposition to President Obama, which runs high, will be enough to reunite the party here around a Romney ticket, he said. "There are those who vote with their heart and those who vote with their head," he said.
"I'm a William F. Buckley conservative," Mr. Owens added. "He said, 'I'm for the most conservative candidate who can be elected.' "
He said, "In the end, Romney will be our nominee."
Other Republicans said they saw in Tuesday's results a kind of shot across the bow in a looming battle for unaffiliated voters, about 30 percent of the state's electorate. In 2008, the unaffiliated vote broke in Colorado for Mr. Obama, and some Republicans say winning them back will not be about playing it safe.
"One thing consultants have always told Republicans is that we have to move to the center to win elections. I don't think that's true anymore," said Representative David G. Balmer, a Republican state representative from the suburbs of Denver. "I think the electorate in Colorado is anxious to see Republicans stand up for conservative principals."
Mr. Balmer is running for a state Senate seat and made no endorsement in the caucuses. "If an unaffiliated voter wants moderate positions," he said, "we're probably not going to get that voter anyway, but there will be those who migrate because we are standing up for the right things."
Religion, especially conservative Christianity, is probably the wildcard force. In El Paso County, that voice spoke loudly for Mr. Santorum, politicians and analysts said, but whether in skepticism or hostility to Mr. Romney's Mormon beliefs or in embrace of Mr. Santorum's Catholicism was less certain.
"Probably if you ask an El Paso County citizen, what was the number one issue in their minds, they might say the economy, but I find it interesting that their lead discussion is more on faith and religion," said Bill Roy, the chief operating officer for the El Paso County Republican Party.
Mr. Roy said he had only anecdotal evidence that religious beliefs had swayed caucus goers toward Mr. Santorum.
"Someone would walk up to the desk and say, 'Hey that Rick Santorum, he's Catholic, man of faith, I'm liking him, he's got good values,' " Mr. Roy said. "Instead of saying, 'Boy, his conservative statements on immigration, and job creation and the nation debt appeal to me.' "
John A. Straayer, a professor of political science at Colorado State University in Fort Collins, said he thought that in a way, Mr. Romney perhaps did himself in in Colorado with the attacks on Newt Gingrich in recent days elsewhere on the campaign trail. With Mr. Gingrich's appeal diminished, Professor Straayer said, many Republican caucusgoers looked around for another choice, perhaps at the last minute.
"Where they are going to go?" he said. Among many evangelical voters, he said, Representative Ron Paul of Texas, with his libertarian views on social issues like drugs, was not a viable choice, however they felt about Mr. Romney and his faith. And many Tea Party activists have similarly opposed Mr. Romney, who they have said is too moderate or too closely linked to the Massachusetts health care plan that became the template for the federal health care overhaul.
"What Santorum probably picked up was some portion of the Tea Party crowd and evangelical crowd that had been willing to swallow Gingrich," he said.
Professor Straayer said the Colorado General Assembly was probably the best place to look for how the Republican Party has changed over time, but even in the four years since Mr. Romney won the Republican caucuses.
"I sometimes characterize the party as a marriage between Grover Norquist and James Dobson," he said, referring to the founder and former head of the conservative Christian group, Focus on the Family, based in Colorado Springs. "You've got the kind of libertarian, antigovernment, antitax orientation," he said, "and then you've also got the religious element, heavy in El Paso County. But it's not just El Paso County, it's all over the state, and they not only merge in numbers, but they merge in individuals."
Mr. Balmer, the state representative, said Tuesday's results were all about rooting for the underdog.
"Colorado loves the underdog," he said. In 2008, that was Mr. Romney, in his fight against the eventual party nominee, Senator John McCain. But none of that will matter, he said, once the dust settles and a nominee is named to go up against Mr. Obama. Then forget the splits.
"President Obama has been the great Republican Party unifier," he said.

        
Romney Memo Tries to Lower Expectations for Contests
        
As Rivals Blast Romney, Santorum Offers Milder Criticism
        
Romney Campaign Tries to Put an Optimistic Face on a Disappointing Night
        
A Secret Donor Revealed
        
Readers: Help Us Discover a Secret Donor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); RELIGION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%) Colorado; romney; Santorum; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (79%); MICHAEL BENNET (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (93%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (73%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (58%) COLORADO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Colorado

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



331 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: A Rosier Jobs Outlook From Obama's Advisers

BYLINE: THE CAUCUS


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's team of economic advisers are revising their forecasts on the nation's unemployment rate. 

 BODY:
Jackie Calmes reports that advisers to President Obama, drawing on a string of improved economic data, have updated their forecasts in recent days and now project that the economy will create two million jobs this year, reducing the unemployment rate to about 8 percent by year's end.
Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, confirmed the revised projection for the economic figure that is the most important one to Mr. Obama's re-election prospects.
Mr. Krueger said the forecast was updated because the projection that will be published in the president's annual budget, to be released on Monday, was already "stale and out of date."

        
10 Questions for Gene Sperling
        
'Keep It Going,' Obama Says of Economic Recovery
        
Primary Race Moves to Economically Strapped States
        
The Economy Isn't Obama's Only Challenge
        
The Value of Foreign Policy Victories for Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); POLITICS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) economy; president obama; Unemployment; Krueger, Alan B; Obama, Barack; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; White House Council of Economic Advisers; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (91%) White House Council of Economic Advisers

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Krueger, Alan B; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



332 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Sex and the Secularists

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The outrage of Republican presidential candidates over a "war on religion" shouldn't distract us from the real possibility of compromise on health care insurance and contraception. 

 BODY:
In my old neighborhood in a patch at the north end of Spokane, Washington, not only was John F. Kennedy a saint, but the family from which he came was viewed as the norm - that is, a brood of nine or more kids, each a year or so apart. Birth control in the mid-1960s was the rhythm method, and its failed efficacy was evident in the size of the clans. "The I-got-rhythm method," my dad called it.
Today, it's the rare Roman Catholic family in America that produces enough children to field its own baseball team. What that tells you is that most young parents in good standing with the church are practicing a method of birth control abhorred by the clerical elite. Specifically, according to a survey by the respected Guttmacher Institute, 98 percent of sexually active Catholic women have used birth control other than church-approved natural methods (rhythm!).
It's worth keeping this figure in mind as we parse the latest campaign trail grenade thrown by Republican leaders, ever eager to cast the opposition party as militant secularists. The phony political outrage is one thing. But the policy at the core of the issue - a federal rule that insurance plans, including those at many Catholic-run hospitals and universities, cover birth control - is a step too far. There are ways to resolve this delicate struggle between conscience and accepted medical practice.
The administration has already granted an exemption to institutions that cover a strictly religious employee pool. Perhaps a larger resolution can come from that kind of flexibility, in the same way that churches in states where same-sex marriage is legal can take a pass.
First, the politics. Newt Gingrich, who became a Catholic after violating the church's age-old sanction against adultery, says the new provision is evidence that the Obama administration is waging a "war on the Catholic Church." Mitt Romney is late to the parade, but is now using some of the same language, even though he was never able to prevent his Massachusetts plan from offering birth control. Rick Santorum, and the dopey dropout from the race, Rick Perry, have consistently accused the president of fighting a "war on religion."
This is an unfortunate and expedient dumbing down of a word weighted with genuine tragedy.
A war on Christians is certainly being waged from West Africa to parts of Egypt, where vigilantes have murdered worshipers and burned churches. The Iraq war, started by a president who wore his religion on his cowboy boots, resulted in upward of 600,000 Christians having to flee their longtime homes, as sectarian hatreds flared with the conflict. Those are wars on Christians - people slaughtered, or displaced, for their faith. A rule in the new health care act that mandates access to birth control methods already used by most Catholics does not a war make.
Those who worship in the church of their ancestors yet ignore much of its outdated and even medieval dogma are dismissed as "cafeteria Catholics," cruising the theological food court to pick and choose their beliefs. But the reality, backed by survey after survey, is that most Americans in the church are in fact cafeteria Catholics.
The latest snapshot of the faithful, brought out last year by the National Catholic Reporter, found that most members of the church believe in the core theological constructs, but ignore the church's teachings on sex - always the great hang-up. Only one in five Catholics said that church leaders were the proper arbiters in such matters as divorce, abortion, sexual conduct, homosexuality and abortion. Even fewer people, only 10 percent of Catholics, believe that the church should have the final say about contraceptive use.
By contrast, almost 70 percent believe that "helping the poor" is very important to being a Catholic.
The church position on birth control is tied, in its modern incarnation, to Pope Paul VI's 1968 Humanae Vitae, in which he said that contraception was "intrinsically wrong." All the evidence now suggests that on this issue, American Catholics believe it is the church's position that is intrinsically wrong.
American Catholics love the tradition, the sense of community and the cultural ties that connect them to distant struggles from Ireland to Africa. They are going to ignore church rulings on birth control and homosexuality, and continue to show up at Mass, to baptize their children, cheer at weddings and weep at funerals, no matter what the bishops tell them.
Eventually, the church position will catch up to the beliefs and practices of 21st-century Catholics. This transition is already under way. Witness Pope Benedict's suggestion in 2010 that condom use is acceptable in some cases.
But the point is that the living church will change from within, by the will of its faithful. And that's why the Obama administration should allow the church to find a third way. The change shouldn't come from the government.
Roughly one in six patients in the United States are cared for in a Catholic hospital. Millions of those patients are not Catholic. So why should they be denied birth control, which doctors and social scientists say is a proper tool for healthy living? It gets even trickier when religious institutions take government money, and dole out policies at odds with the Constitution's establishment clause.
There must be a third way. When I lived in Italy, my kids could opt out of the religion class at the local public school by learning about road signs (or deconstructing John Lennon's "Imagine," as they did once).
Last month, the administration extended the time until August of 2013 for religious institutions to comply with the law. In that window, surely a workable balance can be found.
In 2008, Obama won the Catholic vote, with 54 percent. He should carry it again this year, given that his governing philosophy of economic fairness and help for the poor is consistent with the majority sentiment of most Catholics. It would be a pity if this one issue got in the way.

        
Fair Is Fair
        
The Bully Populist
        
Overmisunderestimating Rick Perry
        
There They Go Again
        
The Silver Medalists

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICS (87%); HEALTH CARE (86%); MARRIAGE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); DISPLACED PERSONS (66%); IRAQ WAR (61%); BASEBALL (55%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Catholicism; contraceptives; President Obama; presidential election of 2012; Roman Catholic Church; the Affordable Care Act; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Santorum, Rick; Birth Control and Family Planning; Presidential Election of 2012; United States

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (56%) Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); RICK PERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (70%); RICK SANTORUM (70%) Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Perry, Rick; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (90%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



333 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Barneys, Debt-Laden, Is Weighing Restructuring

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Despite recent sales gains, the New York fashion retailer has hired advisers to help manage an unwieldy debt load that is to mature this fall. 

 BODY:
Barneys New York, one of New York's temples of high fashion, has hired restructuring advisers to help the retailer deal with $200 million in debt maturing this fall, people briefed on the matter said Wednesday.
The company has long been known as one of the world's top purveyors of fashion, having introduced Americans to Giorgio Armani more than three decades ago. But it has labored for years to emerge from a hefty debt load taken on in a 2007 leveraged buyout.
Barneys hired the law firm Kirkland & Ellis, one of the top law firms for restructuring work, in recent weeks, said the people, who were not authorized to speak publicly. Kirkland joins a coterie that includes longtime Barneys adviser Perella Weinberg Partners and the consulting firm AlixPartners.
The hiring of these advisers does not necessarily presage any sort of bankruptcy filing, since the company may be able to reach agreements with its small group of lenders and debtholders. They include Citigroup, Wells Fargo and the investment firms Perry Capital and Ronald W. Burkle's Yucaipa Companies, these people said.
"Barneys New York is actively engaged in discussions with the company's small group of lenders to improve its balance sheet and further position Barneys New York for sustainable, long-term growth and success," a company representative said in a statement.
"We are focused on resolving this matter as expeditiously as possible, and it will remain business as usual at Barneys New York."
Barneys executives are optimistic, in part, because of improving sales figures. The company representative said that the retailer's sales rose 18 percent in December, and that the company's full-year earnings rose 40 percent over 2010.
Barneys has shaken up its executive lineup in recent years, including the hiring of a former Gucci executive, Mark Lee, in 2010 after two years without a chief.
It was founded as a discount menswear shop in 1923 by Barney Pressman, who raised the money by selling his wife's engagement ring. Mr. Pressman's son, Fred, built the company into a mecca for fashion, introducing scores of high-end designers - from Prada to Proenza Schouler - to the American public.
The company has run into hard times before. It filed for bankruptcy in 1996, emerging from court protection three years later.
The Pressman family sold Barneys to the Jones Apparel Group in 2004. Three years later, Jones sold it to Istithmar, a Dubai-based private equity firm, for about $942.3 million, a deal that added about $500 million in debt.
That burden has hurt Barneys, as had the global recession that sapped demand for luxury goods like $1,700 shirt-dresses. It has also had to contend with a proliferation of competitors: Beyond Neiman Marcus and Saks, the company's rivals include online retailers like Net-a-Porter and the discounter Gilt Groupe.
Barneys has a $200 million credit line that matures in September, with about $90 million of that already drawn down, according to the people briefed on the matter. Barneys is hoping to refinance that facility, as well as ease the terms of other debt.
Istithmar has supported the retailer and sought to keep it out of bankruptcy, including by investing $20 million in the company in 2010.
News of Kirkland & Ellis's hiring was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.

        
Dubai Inc.'s Holdings May Go Up for Auction
        
Burkle Said to Offer to Take Control of Barneys

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BONDS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) AlixPartners; Barneys; Barneys New York; Citigroup; Kirkland & Ellis; Perella Weinberg Partners; Perry Capital; Ronald W. Burkle; Wells Fargo &; Yucaipa; Bankruptcies; E-Commerce; Shopping and Retail; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring/Bankruptcy; Retail/Leisure; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); YUCAIPA COS LLC (69%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); JONES GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Barneys New York; Kirkland & Ellis

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); JNY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); RON BURKLE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



334 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: $26 Billion Deal Is Said to Be Set For Homeowners

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
After months of painstaking talks, government authorities and five of the nation's biggest banks have agreed to a $26 billion settlement that could provide relief to nearly two million current and former American homeowners harmed by the bursting of the housing bubble, state and federal officials said. It is part of a broad national settlement aimed at halting the housing market's downward slide and holding the banks accountable for foreclosure abuses.
Despite the billions earmarked in the accord, the aid will help a relatively small portion of the millions of borrowers who are delinquent and facing foreclosure. The success could depend in part on how effectively the program is carried out because earlier efforts by Washington aimed at troubled borrowers helped far fewer than had been expected.
Still, the agreement is the broadest effort yet to help borrowers owing more than their houses are worth, with roughly one million expected to have their mortgage debt reduced by lenders or able to refinance their homes at lower rates. Another 750,000 people who lost their homes to foreclosure from September 2008 to the end of 2011 will receive checks for about $2,000. The aid is to be distributed over three years. 
The final details of the pact were still being negotiated Wednesday night, including how many states would participate and when the formal announcement would be made in Washington. The two biggest holdouts, California and New York, now plan to sign on, according to the officials with knowledge of the matter who did not want to be identified because the negotiations were not completed.
The deal grew out of an investigation into mortgage servicing by all 50 state attorneys general that was introduced in the fall of 2010 amid an uproar over revelations that banks evicted people with false or incomplete documentation. In the 14 months since then, the scope of the accord has broadened from an examination of foreclosure abuses to a broad effort to lift the housing market out of its biggest slump since the Great Depression. Four million Americans have been foreclosed upon since the beginning of 2007, and the huge overhang of abandoned homes has swamped many regions, like California, Florida and Arizona.
In New York State, more than 46,000 borrowers will receive some form of benefit, with an estimated 21,000 expected to see what they owe reduced through a principal reduction, according to estimates by the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The five mortgage servicers in the settlement -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally Financial -- have largely set aside reserves for the expected cost of the accord and investors are likely to cheer its announcement because it removes one more legal worry for the industry, analysts said.
''I wouldn't say it's a panacea for the housing industry but it is good for the banks to get this behind them,'' said Jason Goldberg, an analyst with Barclays.
As more and more states signed on this week, the negotiations with the banks became especially intense, said one participant, who wasn't authorized to speak publicly. Two bank officials, Frank Bisignano of JPMorgan Chase and Mike Heid of Wells Fargo, played a critical role in the talks with Shaun Donovan, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and Thomas J. Perrelli, the associate attorney general at the Justice Department. Bank of America, which will make the largest payout as the nation's biggest mortgage servicer, moved more cautiously, the participant said.
The settlement money will be doled out under a complicated formula that gives banks varying degrees of credit for different kinds of help. As a result, banks are incentivized to help harder-hit borrowers with homes worth far less than what they owe.
While the $26 billion figure is the one being cited in the negotiations, federal officials said they hope the eventual value for homeowners reaches up to $39 billion. However, mortgages owned by the government's housing finance agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, will not be covered under the deal, excluding about half the nation's mortgages.
About one in five Americans with mortgages are underwater, which means they owe more than their home is worth. Collectively, their negative equity is almost $700 billion. On average, these homeowners are underwater by $50,000 each.
A recent estimate from the settlement negotiations put the average aid for homeowners at $20,000.
''I just don't think it's going to be a life-changing event for borrowers,'' said Gus Altuzarra, whose company, the Vertical Capital Markets Group, buys loans from banks at a discount.
Several billion dollars would cover the direct cash payments to foreclosure victims and provide money for states' attorneys general to services like mortgage counseling and future investigations into mortgage fraud.
Though many economists identify the moribund housing market as the greatest drag on the recovery, it is not clear how much the settlement will help.
Christopher J. Mayer, a housing expert at Columbia Business School, said the accord could give banks more certainty that they can clear their large backloads of seized homes, restoring the flow of those homes into the market.
''It may be good for individual homeowners, but if you don't do something to help the foreclosure process, it's not going to help the housing market,'' he said.
Mark Zandi, the chief economist for Moodys Analytics, said that while the settlement looked small compared with the scope of the problem, it was not necessary to erase all, or even most, of the nation's negative equity to turn the market around.
About a third of houses on the market now are distressed, or have been through foreclosure, he said, and reducing that percentage by just a small amount could be enough to put a floor under housing prices.
More than the dollar figures, the settlement had been held up amid concern by New York's attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, that it provided too broad of a release for banks for past misdeeds, making future investigations much more difficult.
Mr. Schneiderman was able to win significant concessions from the banks in recent days.
In the agreement's expected final form, the releases are mostly limited to the foreclosure process, like the eviction of homeowners after only a cursory examination of documents, a practice known as robo-signing.
The prosecutors and regulators still have the right to investigate other elements that contributed to the housing bubble, like the assembly of risky mortgages into securities that were sold to investors and later soured, as well as insurance and tax fraud.
Officials will also be able to pursue any allegations of criminal wrongdoing. In addition, a lawsuit Mr. Schneiderman filed Friday against MERS, an electronic mortgage registry responsible for much of the robo-signing that has marred the foreclosure process nationwide, and three banks, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, will also go forward.
Along with how broad the releases would be, California's attorney general, Kamala Harris, also pushed for her state to be able to use the state's False Claims Act. That would enable state officials and huge pension funds like Calpers to collect sizable monetary damages from the banks if officials could prove mortgages were improperly packaged into securities that later dropped in value.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EVICTION (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



335 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1826 words

HEADLINE: In Dire Need of Design

BYLINE: By EMILY WEINSTEIN

 BODY:
AS the national unemployment rate starts to fall, signaling a strengthening economy, some bullish Americans may buy something especially sweet for their sweethearts this Valentine's Day. Others who are feeling the economic thaw may spend money on something notoriously expensive, if less romantic, which they have been putting off: a divorce.
Among the battalion of specialists who will meet them on the other side of their split -- real estate agents, mortgage brokers, financial planners -- is a relatively new member of the ranks, one Susan Manrao.
Charming and funny, with an infectious laugh, Ms. Manrao, a 35-year-old interior designer in Los Angeles, found her niche after realizing there was one kind of client she preferred over all others: the divorced man. Her ''aha'' moment came about two years ago, she said, when she was doing a walk-through of a house that belonged to one such client in his 40s whose children often came to stay. It was basically empty. 
''I realized my role in this project wasn't simply to design a space,'' she said, ''but to help rebuild a home.''
In Ms. Manrao's experience, working with men alone is easier than working with couples or women, because they tend to be more hands-off, affording her greater creative freedom.
Divorced fathers, especially, often want their homes done quickly, to make the transition as smooth as possible for their children, which means they are apt to agree with her design decisions.
And though there have been couples she enjoyed working with, there were many more, she said, whose ''relationship literally goes into turmoil because of silly things like choosing wall covering.''
But what truly distinguishes her divorced male clients, she said, is how appreciative they are.
''It's a much more rewarding experience,'' Ms. Manrao said. ''They are thrilled to have a new home that actually feels like a home.''
Like other designers with numerous divorced clients, Ms. Manrao has honed insights into what the newly divorced (particularly newly divorced heterosexual men) want and need as they create a new home for themselves.
And that knowledge may be increasingly in demand, as there are likely to be more of them soon, said Andrew Cherlin, a sociology professor at Johns Hopkins University who has written extensively about American marriage.
Since 2008, he said, divorce rates in the United States have dropped, as they did during the Great Depression. Once the economy began improving back then, however, divorce rates rose significantly, something that is bound to happen again, Dr. Cherlin predicted, when the current economic recovery becomes more dramatic.
''Without a doubt, there are unhappy couples out there looking for the resources to separate,'' he said.
And when they do, at least half of the newly divorced will need a new place to live, a new sofa and rug, new towels and coffee cups and prints to hang on the walls, and all the other trappings that make an apartment or a house into a home. If they have children, they may need it urgently. And if they were in a marriage in which their spouse did the decorating, they will need help.
Men coming from heterosexual marriages are more likely to move out of the family home than women are, said Steven Mintz, a historian at Columbia University who studies families and children. They are also, generally speaking, ill prepared for divorce, he added. ''They are wedded to marriage as an institution,'' he said. ''It provided structure in their lives.''
The instability of divorce, and the difficulty of making that transition, Dr. Mintz said, help account for the relative speed with which many men remarry.
Deirdre Dyment, a Toronto designer, who, like Ms. Manrao, has shifted her business to focus on divorced men, said, ''A huge percentage of them leave the matrimonial home and live in dumps.''
''They've got the old hand-me-down furniture that was in the basement,'' Ms. Dyment said. ''They've got their grandmother's dining room table and mismatched this and that. And they really miss the warmth their home had. And they don't have a clue how to pull it together.''
Of course, today's divorced man is a more evolved creature than his counterpart of a generation or two ago. For one thing, he is more likely to care what his home looks like, Dr. Mintz said. For another, he is more likely to seek joint custody of his children.
His home, then, is not a Hefner-like bachelor pad with a round bed and a conversation pit, nor is it Don Draper's dark, drab apartment on ''Mad Men,'' which the show's creator, Matthew Weiner, has described as looking ''like it was decorated by Edward Hopper.'' Instead, it tends to be a place that balances cheerful comfort for the children with a scary new reality: Dad is a single guy.
And he is starting from scratch.
Kimberlee Paige Hanson, 41, the founder of the New York firm Interior Bliss Design and an offshoot called Sexy Bachelor Pad, said: ''They've left her everything. They've got one trophy and a mix tape.''
Ms. Hanson has worked with at least two dozen divorced men in the last five years, she said, offering services that go well beyond interior design, to include pantry stocking, cooking lessons and more. But when it comes to decor, leather chairs are one of the most common requests, she said, along with 60-plus-inch flat-screen TVs.
Sharon Staley, an interior designer in Houston who has worked with many divorced men, said that most of them want wet bars. ''And they don't want little towels,'' she added. ''They want the big bath towels -- bath sheets.'' That is, in addition to mounted animal heads, a comfy chair and ''the biggest TV we can get them,'' she said.
Speed is also important, said Joe Nahem, an interior designer in New York with a number of divorced clients. Last year, he said, he had one client in his 30s who had to move immediately after he and his wife decided to part. ''He had not lived by himself since he was in a college dorm,'' Mr. Nahem said with a sigh.
The designer's team began by installing the man in a SoHo rental with nothing but a box spring, a chair and a TV. In short order, they had fully outfitted the apartment down to the books, dishes, sheets, towels and toys for his son. ''We even found him a housekeeper,'' Mr. Nahem said.
MS. Dyment, 43, said it was the state of her husband's new home after they separated five years ago that inspired her to focus her business on divorced men.
''He told me it was the worst time of his entire life,'' she said. ''And it was the worst time of my life, but I still got to sleep in my own bed. For the first six months, we both didn't want the kids to see his space because it was a basement, and it was dark, and it was awful.''
When he moved again, she volunteered to decorate the apartment. ''As a mother and an ex-wife, I want to know that my children will be in a clean, cozy, organized place,'' she said.
But the challenge is creating a place that feels welcoming not just to children but also to potential romantic partners.
The five-bedroom Los Angeles house Ms. Manrao decorated for Tim Geddes, 46, who works in private equity, attempts to walk that line: it's comfortable for a family, but it is not a family home. ''If you took a woman there, you wouldn't necessarily know there are kids,'' Ms. Manrao said. ''It's not designed the way you would design a family's house.''
Still, she took pains to include elements that she knew would appeal to Mr. Geddes's son and daughter, who were 8 and 6 years old at the time, like wallpaper with a picture-frame print on which they could draw and paste their own photos.
As Mr. Geddes said, ''People would say this house is a man's house, but there is still a softness to it.''
And that helps when it comes to dating. A rental apartment he lived in after his divorce, he said, ''was not too much of a hit with dates. It wasn't like I had jerseys framed and hanging from the wall, but it was definitely an alpha-male-type place.''
Ms. Manrao has plenty of experience when it comes to setting the mood. After serving as the director of design and brand experience for a group of Starwood Hotels, including the W, the St. Regis and the Luxury Collection, she started her own firm. She knows what quickens the pulse: a bar or a place to have a nightcap, layers of lighting and, most important, a double chaise or an ottoman large enough for ''canoodling,'' she said.
''You need to have places to have sex other than the bed,'' she clarified. ''I don't mean to sound brash, but that's what people want.''
In fact, she would approach almost any space, for either couples or single clients, in the same manner, she said, though her design philosophy does seem particularly germane for a divorced client hoping to re-enter the dating world.
''I never discuss it with them in these terms, but if you're transitioning into this lifestyle, this is what you need,'' she said. ''I try to always get them to let me do their whole bedding package, and do really good down duvets, the whole thing,'' she added. ''You have a lady friend over -- in this age bracket, you should have nice stuff.''
Ms. Hanson offers similar advice to her clients, counseling them on what will, and won't, appeal to women. (A multipack of toilet paper sitting on top of the kitchen cabinets: unappealing, Ms. Hanson said.)
Sometimes, in fact, she acts more like a therapist than a designer. When she first walked through Nickolas Petrini's new apartment in Hell's Kitchen, she asked so many questions that ''he said it felt like a combination of therapy and speed-dating,'' she recalled. ''It was very endearing.''
Mr. Petrini, 38, a wine importer who bought his one-bedroom duplex in October, said he was ''counseled and scolded at the same time'' over things like photos he wanted to hang on the wall.
''I thought, wouldn't it be cool to have a picture of me on the peak of the mountain,'' he said. Ms. Hanson disagreed; women might be put off by that sort of thing, she told him. Instead, she gave his apartment a masculine aesthetic that she thought would appeal to women, exposing brick walls in the living room and filling the space with dark woods and industrial details.
On occasion, clients have been known to see the designers themselves as potential dates. A few clients have asked Ms. Hanson out for a drink. And in the case of Ms. Manrao and Mr. Geddes, his daughter seemed to hope romance would blossom between them. ''My daughter was always asking about Susan,'' Mr. Geddes said. ''She was kind of bummed out when Susan finished the job.'' (Ms. Manrao, who is to be married this weekend, said she makes a point of wearing her engagement ring when she meets with clients.)
As for Mr. Petrini, he is ''cautiously dating'' (but not Ms. Hanson) and seems pleased just to be settled in his new home.
''It was meant to be a departure from my previous life,'' he said. ''It's a good place to be after the craziness of a divorce.''
Better still, he added, ''my former wife wouldn't have liked any of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR THE KIDS: Clockwise from above: Tim Geddes in his Los Angeles home
his living room
Susan Manrao, his decorator, said her my role ''wasn't simply to design a space, but to help rebuild a home''
detail in the master bedroom
Mr. Geddes's children can fill in the frames on the bathroom wallpaper
homey touches in the master bedroom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURE JOLIET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FOR THE LADIES: Clockwise from above: Nickolas Petrini's Manhattan apartment
Kimberlee Paige Hanson helped him decorate it
 she thought that masculine but not macho touches like exposed brick walls in the living room would be attractive to women. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIAN WASS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN STAUFFER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MEN (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERIOR DECORATING (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); SOCIOLOGY (63%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (56%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



336 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Places Big Bets on Troubled Securities

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
8:43 p.m. Updated
Goldman Sachs is picking up some of the pieces from the wreckage of the American International Group.
On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York announced that it had sold assets with a face value of $6.2 billion to Goldman, which trumped four other investment banks for the securities.
The auction - the second such sale this year - signals the renewed interest in mortgage-related investments and other risky securities at the center of the financial crisis. In recent months, banks, hedge funds and other big investors have been snapping up the bonds, betting on a rebound in their prices. 
''There's a saying: there are no bad bonds, there are just bad prices,'' said Evan Lorenz, an analyst at Grant's Interest Rate Observer. ''If you can get them at the right price, you can make a good amount.'' The A.I.G. assets, held in an investment vehicle known as Maiden Lane II, were acquired in 2008 as part of the insurer's taxpayer-financed bailout. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York created the vehicle - and financed it with a $19.5 billion loan - to absorb troubled securities sitting on the insurer's books.
In all, the government pumped more than $182 billion into A.I.G. to help stabilize the broader financial system. With the proceeds from this sale and a similar one last month, the New York Fed expects to recoup all of its money on Maiden Lane II by early March. The Treasury Department still owns nearly 77 percent of A.I.G. stock; the New York Fed has other outstanding loans related to A.I.G.
''I am pleased with the continued interest in these assets,'' William C. Dudley, the president of the New York Fed, said in a statement.
Goldman and other investment banks have been beneficiaries of the government's rescue of A.I.G.
To protect against potential losses on risky securities, Goldman and other firms had purchased billions of dollars of insurance from A.I.G., known as credit-default swaps. With A.I.G. on the brink of collapse in 2008, the New York Fed set up another investment vehicle - known as Maiden Lane III - to buy those troubled assets from the banks. The controversial deal, referred to as a backdoor bailout, allowed the banks to avoid losses on the securities.
Now, some of those banks are looking to profit as A.I.G. recovers.
Last year, A.I.G. tried to buy back $15.7 billion in bonds from the federal government. But the New York Fed rejected the offer in early 2011 in an effort to open up the auction process and bolster the potential return for taxpayers.
''After careful review, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System judged that the public interest in maximizing returns from any sale and promoting financial stability would be better served by an alternative approach to realizing value that is also more consistent with normal market practice,'' the New York Fed said in a statement at the time.
While the sales process got off to a rocky start amid market turmoil last summer, investor interest has since returned. In January, Goldman approached the New York Fed, offering to buy a chunk of assets from Maiden Lane II that had a face value of $7 billion. The Fed subsequently held an auction for the bonds, with Credit Suisse emerging as the top bidder.
Credit Suisse quickly sold off the securities to clients, including hedge funds and other banks. Given the strong demand, the Swiss financial firm submitted an unsolicited bid to the New York Fed for another portion of A.I.G. assets, prompting the latest auction.
The auction attracted Barclays Capital, Morgan Stanley and the Royal Bank of Scotland, according to the Fed's statement. Ultimately, Goldman won out with a bid of an unspecified sum.
In a statement, the New York Fed said only that ''the winning bid represented good value for the public.'' Profits from the sale will be reported on April 16 as part of Maiden Lane II's regular reporting schedule.
A Goldman spokesman declined to comment.
Bonds with a face value of roughly $6 billion still sit in the Maiden Lane II portfolio. The New York Fed said it would use BlackRock Solutions, the adviser hired to wind down the portfolio, to run a ''a competitive sales process'' for the remaining assets.
After the initial Maiden Lane II loan is paid back in March, any further proceeds will be split between A.I.G. and the New York Fed. The first $1 billion or so will go to the insurer's subsidiaries, with the government collecting the bulk of the remainder. The New York Fed's share will flow to the Treasury Department, as part of the normal operating process.
Azam Ahmed contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William C. Dudley, the New York Fed president, said he was pleased with interest in the assets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); INSURANCE (87%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (96%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



337 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Fed Delays Vote on Deal To Combine Two Banks

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
8:38 p.m. Updated
The Federal Reserve has postponed until Monday its plans to vote on Capital One's $9 billion takeover of ING Direct.
The Fed released a brief statement on Wednesday saying it had postponed a closed-door meeting about the deal, though it did not explain the cause of the delay. 
According to Capital One, Fed officials attributed the switch to scheduling problems. But it is unclear whether the last-minute delay - announced less than an hour before the board was scheduled to meet - may also indicate dissent among the Fed's governors. Capital One needs support from a majority of the five governors to obtain approval.
''The board has informed us that the planned meeting for this afternoon has been rescheduled for Monday, Feb. 13,'' a bank spokeswoman said in a statement. ''We understand that the delay is due to a scheduling conflict, and we look forward to their decision early next week.''
Consumer groups that oppose the deal hit the Fed with about 100 phone calls on Wednesday to express opposition to the takeover, according to the National Community Reinvestment Coalition. The groups have also urged the Fed to make its deliberations public.
''We hope the postponement is a sign that the Federal Reserve is listening to issues they raised, and taking additional time to ensure the public understands how this deal will impact them,'' John Taylor, chief executive of the coalition, said in a statement.
In June, Capital One agreed to pay $6.2 billion in cash for the Dutch bank ING's online banking business in the United States. Capital One would also issue $2.8 billion worth of new shares to ING, giving it a 9.9 percent stake.
The deal has drawn the ire of community bankers and consumer advocates, who argue that it will create another ''too big to fail'' banking giant. Critics note that the deal will transform Capital One into the fifth-largest bank by deposits. Currently, it does not rank in the top 10.
Capital One counters that, unlike big banks on Wall Street, it sticks to the basic lending and deposit business.
But under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, the Fed must now weigh whether a bank merger would pose systemic risks to the economy. The central bank can block deals that are likely to cause more harm than good.
The much-anticipated vote on the Capital One deal was seen as the first significant test of that new authority. The Fed's decision could have an important impact on deal-making among banks, and the industry is watching to see whether the Fed spells out for the first time what constitutes a systemically risky acquisition.
The Fed did vote on Wednesday to approve an obscure deal between the Hana Financial Group and the Korea Exchange Bank, though the vote took place by e-mail.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Capital One plans to take over ING's online banking business in the United States. Some consumer groups oppose the move. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); MERGERS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERNET BANKING (68%); RANKINGS (61%)

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); ING GROEP NV (92%); ING BANK FSB (58%); HANA FINANCIAL GROUP INC (50%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (50%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%); INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); 086790 (KSE) (50%); 004940 (KSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



338 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Malloy, in Address, Urges New Teacher Tenure Rules

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
HARTFORD -- Gov. Dannel P. Malloy proposed a broad set of education initiatives, including major changes to teacher tenure, on Wednesday in his second State of the State address, a speech that found his efforts split between unfinished business from his first year in office and a new agenda for his second.
Mr. Malloy, a Democrat, cast himself as a governor focused on educational innovation in a state with the nation's largest achievement gap between largely white suburban students and largely minority urban ones, even if that put him at odds with traditionally supportive constituencies, like teachers' unions. 
He said teachers could get tenure just by showing up for work, which he called unacceptable.
''Today tenure is too easy to get and too hard to take away,'' he said in a joint legislative session at Connecticut's ornate House chamber.
But Mr. Malloy's concern for education is complicated by a budget in which nearly all of his projected surplus has already evaporated, mostly because of disappointing revenues and despite a $1.5 billion package of tax increases last year.
Over all, his $20.7 billion budget proposal for the fiscal year that starts in July calls for $329 million in new spending, largely for education and housing, partly offset by $120 million in spending cuts. The governor's original projection of a $438 million surplus in the next fiscal year has been revised to $1.6 million.
So while Mr. Malloy's speech drew largely positive reactions from both parties in a legislature where Democrats control both houses, the response from Republicans was muted by concerns about the state's finances.
Lawrence Cafero, the House minority leader, said Mr. Malloy's remarks ''took a lot of guts'' and his education agenda would resonate with residents.
Nevertheless, Mr. Cafero said: ''It's all based on the fact that we've turned the corner in being a state that doesn't have an economic crisis. I wish he was right, and I hope he's right, but all the indices now are that he's not.''
Mr. Malloy and Democratic lawmakers said they would carry out whatever cuts were needed.
''Make no mistake about it,'' Mr. Malloy said in his address. ''We will end this year in the black.''
His budget address kicked off what is scheduled to be a 13-week legislative session. Other topics that could come up in the session include proposals to allow Sunday liquor sales and to repeal the death penalty.
Mr. Malloy devoted the first half of his speech to Connecticut's economic prospects, saying that a year ago the state was ''staring into the abyss'' and now it had a stable, fiscally prudent budget.
Mr. Malloy is seeking an additional $128 million for education, including $50 million in aid to local school districts, with the money going largely to the 30 districts with the poorest achievement records. The additional funding would be contingent on districts' adopting specific reforms. He also proposed $12 million more for early-childhood programs and $13 million for recruiting and developing teachers, particularly for low-performing schools.
He proposed adding 500 preschool seats in at-risk areas and setting up a ''Commissioner's Network,'' in which the state would become a temporary trustee overseeing the worst-performing schools.
He said the state needed to overhaul its standards and procedures for teacher preparation, training and evaluation, including the tenure revision, but the speech included few specifics.
Mr. Malloy's plan, which echoes moves in a number of other states, would provide tenure to teachers within three years only if they earn exemplary ratings, based in large part on their students' success. Those who do not receive tenure in three years would have two more years to do so; after five years, they would be ineligible for tenure. And even after becoming tenured, teachers would need to continue to show satisfactory student achievement or risk losing their jobs.
''Tenure will have to be earned and re-earned,'' Mr. Malloy said. ''If you want to keep that tenure, you should have to continue to prove your effectiveness in the classroom as your career progresses.''
Mary Loftus Levine, executive director of the Connecticut Education Association, the state's largest teachers' union, disputed Mr. Malloy's characterization that teachers can get tenure just by showing up, and she said the union supported efforts to improve training, certification and evaluation procedures for teachers.
''Tenure is not a job for life,'' Ms. Loftus Levine said. She said the governor's speech was consistent with the union's support of effective evaluation systems that are already being used, effective professional development and a more streamlined system to deal with teachers who do not get appropriate results.
''I think we have a lot in common, but the devil is in the details,'' she said.
Patrick Riccards, head of Conncan, a group that advocates change in the state education system, said that a tenure overhaul was needed and that the governor's education remarks were all on the right track. ''For too long we've done nothing,'' Mr. Riccards said. ''If taxpayers truly want to see that every child has access to great public schools, this is the direction we need to head.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TENURE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); SUBURBS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



339 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: In Finance, Past Hints At Future

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. E-mail: jesse@propublica.org Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
As fears mount that Dodd-Frank, the financial overhaul law, is about to be emasculated, it's worth reflecting on the 10-year anniversary of a major regulatory success.
I'm speaking of the mocked, patronized and vilified Sarbanes-Oxley, the law that cleaned up American corporate accounting.
SOX, as it's known, was a response to an epidemic in corporate accounting fraud that swept American business in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Because the 2008 financial crisis dwarfs that earlier round of scandal, it's easy to forget how rotten things were, said Broc Romanek, editor of TheCorporateCounsel.net, a site devoted to securities law and corporate governance. ''Everyone had lost faith in the numbers put out by big public companies,'' he said. 
Cast your mind back. The scandals erupted in some of what were supposed to be the best, most recognizable companies in America. Enron and WorldCom were the two biggest names and the two biggest failures. Tyco and Adelphia were in the second tier. But there were appalling accounting disgraces at HealthSouth, Rite Aid and Sunbeam. Waste Management and Xerox barely survived theirs.
Today, there are certainly debates about stocks and their valuations - and some questionable accounting - but no company that finds itself under scrutiny now is anywhere near as large, respected or celebrated as those were then.
Something else characterized those dark days: the frauds often lasted and lasted. Investors known as short-sellers, who make money when stocks collapse, waged battles for years over certain companies. Today, accounting disputes are finished before they start. An accounting scandal at Groupon, the online coupon company, came and went in a matter of weeks back in the fall - resolved by the regulators before the company went public.
When SOX was passed, it was attacked almost exactly the way Dodd-Frank is today. Sarbanes-Oxley got ''horrible press,'' said Jack T. Ciesielski, who edits The Analyst's Accounting Observer. People mocked it for requiring companies ''to flowchart the keys to the executive washroom,'' he said. But the result is that accounting at American companies is much cleaner today.
The main criticisms of the law haven't panned out. Corporate earnings have soared, and no company has ever missed a quarterly estimate because it was spending too much on its accounting and internal controls.
Critics railed that it would cost small companies too much, which it may have, though the evidence is debated. They also argued that it would hurt initial public offerings, which it didn't. Yet, there remains vestigial criticism from the right; Newt Gingrich called for its repeal the other day on the campaign trail.
Is Sarbanes-Oxley perfect? Of course not. The financial crisis included accounting problems. The books of the American International Group, Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch misrepresented the true state of the companies. The auditors have managed to skirt blame - even more so than other gatekeepers, like the ratings agencies, have. But at its heart, the financial crisis wasn't an accounting scandal. It was a bubble, albeit one exacerbated by some book-cooking.
But the evidence in SOX's favor is that one big dog didn't bark. Even as the financial panic turned into the Great Recession, corporate America weathered the worst of the downturn without a series of major accounting frauds.
SOX required that chief executives and chief financial officers personally sign off on their companies' financial statements. That seems minor. No doubt a Madoff wouldn't be deterred by a little dissembling signature. But blackhearts aren't the typical accounting fraudsters.
At huge corporations, corruption usually develops slowly, incrementally, starting with a minor crossing of the line. At the end of a quarter, a sale is booked before it was actually ordered - to make the numbers for Wall Street. Over time, the fraud builds on itself and it's easier to keep the game going than to clean it up.
Requiring a step where the top dogs actually have to mark the books as their own territory halts that process. It steels their concentration and improves the culture, preventing those initial halting steps toward fraud.
The accounting industry has been improved as well. The new SOX-created industry overseer, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, has made inroads. Accountants have done a better job, remembering the devastating collapse of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen in the wake of the Enron debacle.
SOX wasn't the only factor in this cleanup, of course. The accounting trials of the early 2000s made a cultural mark. Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling of Enron, the Tyco fraudsters L. Dennis Kozlowski and Mark H. Swartz and Bernard J. Ebbers of WorldCom all had their day in court. All the world, including their executive peers, watched them go from their mansions to the big house.
Is there a lesson to draw here for the prospects of Dodd-Frank? The new law is more sweeping, more pilloried and more complicated. It is concentrated on one industry, which allows for a more unified opposition. Importantly, a round of perp walks and prison terms didn't accompany the law. Quite the contrary, the people responsible for the greatest economic collapse since 1929 have all danced away untouched.
But for all of the criticisms of Dodd-Frank, there has been a societal change in our views. Few can sustain an argument in favor of a gigantic, self-serving and rapacious financial sector. Some kind of financial reform law was - and still is - needed.
If lawmakers don't gut Dodd-Frank, then 10 years from now we just might be reflecting on how safe our financial system is.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President George W. Bush in 2002 with Michael Oxley and Paul Sarbanes, right, authors of Sarbanes-Oxley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (64%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (55%); GROUPON INC (53%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); HLS (NYSE) (55%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (55%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (55%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (55%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



340 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Marketing Risk Management, To Both Client and Provider

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
QUITE a few people have likened the effects of the financial crisis to getting punched in the face. Now, a campaign is using some ''Pow, right in the kisser'' moments to promote ways to minimize risk.
The campaign, now under way, is on behalf of the Global Association of Risk Professionals, a nonprofit organization known as Garp (particularly to fans of John Irving). The campaign, with a budget estimated at $3 million to $5 million, encourages professionals to take the organization's examinations to become certified as a financial risk manager, or F.R.M. 
The campaign, by the Gate Worldwide agency in New York, is centered on striking photographs, in both senses of the word. The photos depict men in business garb recoiling as if they had been socked seconds before their pictures were taken. No fists are shown; they are filled in by the mind's eye.
The photos, by Marcus Hausser, a Brazilian commercial photographer, appear beneath headlines like ''How Can a Financial Institution Avoid Getting Blindsided?'' and ''Business Has Suffered a Serious Blow. Join the Recovery Team.''
The campaign includes print, online and mobile ads; social media; search; and radio commercials (minus the photos, of course). The ads are running in the United States, Britain, China, India and Singapore.
According to Garp, there are more than 21,000 certified financial risk managers around the world. Becoming certified requires two years of experience, in addition to passing the exam, and costs $800 to $1,200.
The campaign is aimed more broadly than previous ads from Garp, which were directed to risk managers wanting to achieve certification to improve their career prospects. The new ads are also being addressed to organizations, institutions and employers, asking them to regard certification as a seal of approval.
Although ''it is a challenge'' to raise awareness among both potential audiences, said Kathleen Alcorn, managing director and global head of marketing and membership at Garp in Jersey City, ''there has always been a need to expand the conversation.''
''This year, our goal was to try to find that common ground,'' she added, and the campaign is ''a direct call, a call to arms, if you will, to get certified or hire someone who's certified.''
The Gate Worldwide, which has worked with the organization for about a year and a half, proposed ''three very different campaigns,'' Ms. Alcorn said, and the one with the images that evoke boxing matches ''certainly was the one of the three that got the most attention and the most discussion.''
''The reason we chose it was that it's rooted in an emotionally charged truth,'' she added, of ''what's felt when an institution is not prepared'' for problems like ''rogue trading, mismanagement of funds and sovereign debt crises.''
''The point is that the industry is getting hammered, but there's a solution,'' Ms. Alcorn said. ''It's a positive message: 'We have qualified people out there you can hire.' ''
The text of the print ads expands on that message.
''Unforeseen risk is everywhere,'' one ad begins. ''You can find it within an organization or throughout the global economy.''
''That's why more companies are turning to certified financial risk managers,'' the ad continues. ''Every F.R.M. has mastered the specialized knowledge that's sought after by banks, consultancies, corporations and asset management firms.''
Another ad begins: ''In a world of financial risk, organizations can never be too prepared. That's why more global companies are relying on certified financial risk managers.''
''As an F.R.M., you'll be recognized for mastering the complexities of credit, market and operational risks,'' the ad continues. ''You'll also play a critical role in the financial well-being of banks, consultancies, corporations and asset management firms.''
The ads all end by pointing readers to the Garp Web site, at garp.org. The ads also include a QR (quick response) code, which can be scanned to learn more about the organization.
''We're all experiencing this financial crisis,'' said David Bernstein, executive creative director at the Gate Worldwide, adding he knows that ''as a veteran of a lot of advertising agencies that no longer exist.''
''In the past, we've done advertising telling people to get the certification by saying, 'You'll be more qualified, you'll have a better career, you'll make more money,' '' Mr. Bernstein said, an approach that is ''logical for any credential.''
''Now, we're also telling employers, 'Hey, these are the kind of people you need, credentialed,' '' he added.
Although the concept for the campaign ''did make the palms sweat'' of some executives at Garp, Mr. Bernstein said, something ''so visceral'' was just what was needed.
He described the point of the campaign with a nod to the economist Adam Smith: ''The invisible hand, it packs a punch.''
That has a double meaning, Mr. Bernstein acknowledged, in that the hand delivering the punch in each ad is invisible, too.
''We don't want to show someone getting hit,'' he said. ''We want to show the result: what it feels like, what you look like.''
''Movies do this all the time,'' he added. ''Instead of seeing the house on fire, you see the crispy doll.''
In trying to raise awareness for the certification exam, the campaign is timely.
''In 2009, we had our largest year in registrations'' for the exam, Ms. Alcorn said, which rose 70 percent compared with 2008.
The campaign is running in several media outlets owned by Bloomberg, including magazines, Bloomberg Radio and the Bloomberg terminals.
In social media, Garp has a presence on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter.
''Social has been a good vehicle for us,'' Ms. Alcorn said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A campaign for the Global Association of Risk Professionals compares the effect of the global financial crisis to a punch in the face. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RISK MANAGEMENT (91%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOXING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); RADIO ADVERTISING (67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



341 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Surplus Surprises Michigan, But Is It Safe to Spend Again?

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
Over most of the past decade, budget deliberations in Michigan have taken on a glum and familiar monotony: What do we cut now?
But the state that experienced an economic downturn earlier, deeper and longer than most of the rest of the country has made an unlikely discovery as its officials closed out its latest financial books: Michigan has a $457 million surplus.
Even more surprising: Revenues, which had sunk or had been mostly flat for all but one year since 2000, have grown. Not a lot, but grown.
Michigan is the most unlikely example of a phenomenon that was unimaginable in most states in recent years. Though nearly all states are required by law to balance their budgets, most have been able to do so only through rounds of painful spending cuts to make up for deep shortfalls in revenue. 
Now, however, as a majority of states have begun collecting tax revenues that are on par with or even above expectations, they face some measure of Michigan's situation -- trying to sort out whether the worst is really over, whether it is safe to start spending again, or whether a rainy day fund may be the prudent course.
''Revenues are definitely improving, but it's just unsure where it's going to head from here,'' said Todd Haggerty, an analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures, who noted that although revenues in many states have not returned to pre-recession levels, 17 states exceeded their expected personal income tax collections in the first quarter of the current budget year, and 18 states got more in sales tax than they had anticipated.
Even the federal government has seen an encouraging boost in revenues. After declining sharply (17 percent) in the 2009 fiscal year and rising only 3 percent in 2010, federal revenues rose 6 percent in 2011, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
In Michigan, a state that has cut so much so often that in the words of a former state budget director, ''we were so far down that the floor looked like up to us,'' nearly everyone is now clamoring desperately for a piece of the extra cash. As Gov. Rick Snyder, a first-term Republican, prepared to propose a new budget on Thursday, he and his budget team were hearing from seemingly every imaginable department, agency and interest group.
The attorney general wants 1,000 new police officers after 3,200 were cut around the state over the last decade. Schools leaders say they need to offset cutbacks that have left teachers laid off and schools closed. Child advocates want money for early education for toddlers from poor families; construction workers want money for Michigan's crumbling roads; and on and on.
For years in Michigan, the only certainty seemed to be a vanishing state budget. The auto manufacturing industry, so central to the state's existence, was believed to be fading, then collapsing. At various times, Michigan officials had to offset more than $10 billion in expected shortfalls -- closing prisons, eliminating state departments and cutting funds to libraries, day care programs, crime laboratories, zoos and more. By 2010, Robert L. Emerson, the budget director under Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a two-term Democrat who preceded Mr. Snyder, said he found himself working with general fund revenues that had dropped to levels last seen in the early 1990s (or the 1960s, when adjusted for inflation).
While the state had closed the books in the black in some previous years, too, its surpluses on paper were often instantly overtaken by larger projected deficits for the year ahead. Lately, though, signs have shifted. Manufacturing jobs, often declared dead by frustrated workers, have picked up. United States automakers have increased production, saying sales are up, and General Motors, only a few years after a federal rescue and bankruptcy, recaptured in 2011 a crown some thought was merely a dusty memory -- that of the world's largest automaker.
In part, as a result, the unemployment rate in Michigan, which reached 14.1 percent in 2009 and had regularly been among the worst several states in the nation, has lately been among states showing the most significant and continuing rates of improvement, though at 9.3 percent in December it is still above the national average.
By the close of the state's 2011 budget year, in September, Michigan had collected $8.8 billion in general fund revenues -- more than $1 billion less the amount collected in, say, 2000, but noticeably up from the $7.6 billion in Michigan's coffers in 2010, thanks to growth in state income and sales tax revenues. Officials are now projecting $632 million more in revenues over the next two years than they had been expecting.
''After a decade of declining revenues, it's pretty doggone good news,'' John E. Nixon, Mr. Snyder's state budget director, said in an interview. ''Things have turned.''
The state's economic growth comes even as its largest city, Detroit, is in financial turmoil. While city officials are scrambling to avoid running out of money this year, a state review team is expected to decide soon whether the city requires an outside financial manager to take control. Detroit's circumstances are somewhat unusual, but cities generally may revive at a slower rate than states, since they depend largely on property taxes, still stalled in many places.
Mr. Nixon attributed the improved state budget outlook to the state's broader economic uptick, but also, in part, to tax and policy changes Governor Snyder pressed. The state replaced a business tax with a corporate income tax that is expected to save businesses $1.5 billion a year, though that change did not take effect until January.
To make up lost dollars, lawmakers agreed to tax public workers' pensions, reduce the state's Earned Income Tax Credit for the working poor, and remove or reduce other tax exemptions and deductions -- moves Mr. Snyder's critics point to as evidence that even if Michigan's businesses start feeling better, its ordinary families may feel worse.
''A lot of people want us to backfill the cuts we made last year, and we're not doing that,'' Mr. Nixon said. ''We're not going to have a record recovery here -- we're going to have a long, drawn-out recovery.''
The prospect of now building up some savings cushion came as unwelcome news to people like Peter Spadafore, of the Michigan Association of School Boards, who said the schools, drastically cut last year, were in desperate need. ''If you're talking about putting it in a rainy day fund, it's raining,'' he said.
But others seemed reluctant to start thinking about buying things again. Not yet. ''Now is not the time to start throwing more money at program areas that haven't necessarily gone through the real reform that they need to,'' said Tricia Kinley, an official from the Michigan Chamber of Commerce. ''While our members have a confidence and renewed optimism, we've also seen a decade of real turmoil in our state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Snyder must decide what to do with the surplus in Michigan, which has had an increase in revenue as well as in jobs. Years of cuts forced many agencies to scale down. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGELA J. CESERE/ANNARBOR.COM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
REBECCA COOK/REUTERS
 REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); RECESSION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); CHILDREN (63%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (63%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (54%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



342 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Judge Finds Ex-Motorola Employee Stole Secrets

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Hanjuan Jin, a former Motorola software engineer, was found guilty on Wednesday of stealing trade secrets from the company but was acquitted of economic espionage to benefit a foreign government. 
In a separate case, a California businessman was charged with attempted economic espionage, accused of trying to obtain trade secrets from DuPont for Chinese companies.
In the Motorola case, Ms. Jin was tried in November before Judge Ruben Castillo of Federal District Court in Chicago after being indicted on three counts of stealing trade secrets and three more counts of economic espionage. She waived her right to a jury.
Judge Castillo found her guilty of stealing trade secrets and acquitted her on the three counts of economic espionage.
He allowed Ms. Jin to remain in home confinement and scheduled sentencing for April 18.
Ms. Jin, 41, faces as much as 10 years in prison on the trade secrets conviction. She faced as much as 15 years in prison on each of the economic espionage counts.
She was indicted in 2008, a year after she returned to Motorola after a yearlong medical leave of absence and immediately stepped down.
She was accused of simultaneously working for Motorola and for a Beijing-based company, the Kai Sun News (Beijing) Technology Company, also known as SunKaisens, which was affiliated with China's military.
In California, Walter Liew and the Pangang Group of China were charged with conspiring to steal trade secrets about titanium dioxide technology from DuPont, according to the Justice Department and a revised indictment.
Mr. Liew also was charged with attempted economic espionage, according to the indictment filed in federal court in San Francisco. Pangang's titanium and steel units were named in the indictment as well. Mr. Liew's wife, a Chinese citizen, and two others were also charged.
The defendants were involved in a ''long-running effort'' to obtain United States trade secrets for Chinese companies, Melinda Haag, the United States attorney for the Northern District of California, said in a statement.
China had sought to develop the ability to produce titanium dioxide, and state-owned companies including Pangang conspired to steal the technology developed over many years by DuPont, she said.
DuPont, based in Wilmington, Del., is the world's largest manufacturer of titanium dioxide, a white pigment commonly used in coatings, plastics and paper.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (94%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (91%); JUDGES (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ACQUITTAL (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INORGANIC CHEMICALS MFG (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); SENTENCING (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HOUSE ARREST (77%); LAWYERS (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); LARCENY & THEFT (72%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (72%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



343 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
CONTRACT JOBS IN ISRAEL
SPUR NATIONWIDE STRIKE
Israel's main labor union began a general strike, shutting airports, government offices, the stock exchange and parts of some hospitals in a dispute over nonunion contract workers. Page A6
MALDIVES STILL IN TURMOIL 
The Maldives remained gripped by political unrest, with violent clashes between the police and protesters, as well as claims by the nation's former president that he was forced to resign at gunpoint. Page A7
EGYPT TO CONTINUE TRIALS
The military-appointed prime minister of Egypt vowed that the country would defy Washington's pressure to halt the criminal prosecutions of 19 Americans, as prosecutors suggested that the suspects' activities were close to espionage. Page A9
National
LAWMAKERS SECURED
MONEY FOR CONSTRUCTION
Dozens of local and regional construction projects, which the Obama administration did not include in this year's budget, received special financing through money set aside by lawmakers, according to official documents. Page A13
BRACED FOR NEW MILLIONAIRES
San Francisco and the nicer parts of Silicon Valley are already among the most expensive parts of the country and are bracing themselves for an influx of the first Facebook millionaires. Page A12
New York
EFFORTS TO AVERT FORECLOSURE
HIT A STALEMATE IN COURTS
Four years into the foreclosure crisis, New York state's courts are largely at a stalemate and face tens of thousands more cases than expected. Courts statewide have been mired in often hopeless cases involving loans that have left people owing $700,000 or more on homes that have fallen in value. Page A18
Business
WALL STREET BETS BIG
ON TROUBLED SECURITIES
In recent months, there has been renewed interest in mortgage-related investments and other risky securities at the center of the financial crisis. Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, hedge funds and other big investors have been snapping up the bonds, betting on a rebound in their prices. Page B4
HONDA FIGHTS FOR LUSTER
Honda is trying to claw its way back from its troubles of the last year, when a series of natural disasters in Asia caused sales to plunge, and an important model, the revamped Civic, got such a poor reception that the company rushed to make changes. Page B1
3 NEW ANDROID PHONES
Among Android phones there is a lot of choice, but also a lot of fragmentation. The three biggest players are Samsung, Motorola and HTC, and all three are offering beautiful marquee Android phones, all of which are Verizon 4G phones. David Pogue, State of the Art. Page B1
Sports
LITTLE MYSTERY FOR YANKEES
AROUND THEIR LATEST PITCHER
For the Yankees, there is little mystery surrounding their acquisition of Japanese pitcher Hiroki Kuroda. He established himself by going 41-46 with a 3.45 E.R.A. during his four seasons with the Dodgers, and he is seen as a starter who battles relentlessly. Page B11
REJUVENATION ON A BUDGET
The Mets' acquisitions over the past 17 months provide a stark narrative of just how much the club's financial issues have restricted Sandy Alderson in his job as general manager. Page B11
Arts
AN OUTSIDER GIVES VOICE
TO THE SLUMDOGS OF MUMBAI
Katherine Boo's new book, ''Behind the Beautiful Forevers: Life, Death and Hope in a Mumbai Undercity,'' is a nonfiction account of 3,000 or so people who live in a slum on the outskirts of the Mumbai airport. Ms. Boo allows this story of poverty to tell itself, involving herself as little as possible, writes Charles McGrath. Page C1
Home
IN A CONNECTICUT GARDEN,
A STROLL THROUGH WINTER
The Broken Arrow nursery in Connecticut, which only recently began shipping plants and grows 65 percent of the plants it sells, has long been a guide to keeping a beautiful garden through the winter. Page D1
Style
FAME ATTAINED, A ROOKIE
SEEKS INDUSTRY APPROVAL
Thanks to a star turn in ''Project Runway,'' Christian Siriano is a star in the eyes of the broader public and his collection is carried by Neiman Marcus alongside big names in evening wear. But now he's trying to appeal to the fashion crowd and he has set out to change the way he is perceived. Page E1
OP-ED
Gail Collins PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); SMARTPHONES (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); BONDS (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); 4G WIRELESS (60%); ESPIONAGE (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%); MSI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); MALDIVES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



344 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Investor Confidence Keeps Dow Near 4-Year High

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks closed flat in a thinly traded session on Wednesday as Greece remained at a standstill over accepting reforms in exchange for a bailout crucial to avoiding a default.
Underlying confidence kept the Dow Jones industrial average near an almost four-year high reached on Tuesday, though trading has been quiet since last week's stellar employment report. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq are both up 0.3 percent so far this week while the Dow is about unchanged.
Greek party leaders gathered on Wednesday to consider reforms demanded by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund after delays. 
''We would take a hit if Greece is unable to come to a deal, but lately we've been decoupling from Europe as markets catch up to how strong the economy appears to be,'' Randy Frederick, director of trading for Charles Schwab in Austin, Tex., said.
The Walt Disney Company, a Dow component, rose 0.7 percent to $41.27 a day after it reported quarterly profit that topped expectations.
Of the 315 companies in the S. & P. 500 that have reported earnings to date, 61 percent have come in above analysts' expectations, a rate below that of previous quarters.
Cisco Systems, another Dow component and a bellwether for the networking industry, rose 2.4 percent to $20.93 in extended trading after reporting adjusted second-quarter earnings that beat expectations. Shares of Groupon, the daily deal company, fell 7.6 percent to $22.70 after the bell when it unexpectedly posted an adjusted quarterly loss, even as revenue almost tripled from the prior year.
The Dow rose 5.75 points, or 0.04 percent, to 12,883.95. The S. & P. 500 was up 2.91 points, or 0.22 percent, at 1,349.96. The Nasdaq composite index was up 11.78 points, or 0.41 percent, at 2,915.86.
The Dow had its highest close on Tuesday since May 2008; stocks have rallied from late last year on central bank action and signs of an improving economy.
On Wednesday, some prominent players raised eyebrows with their endorsement of stocks.
Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of BlackRock, the world's largest money manager, told Bloomberg Television that investors should be 100 percent in stocks.
That followed bullish comments from the staff of the renowned market bear Nouriel Roubini. Gina Sanchez, Mr. Roubini's director of equity and allocation strategy, told CNBC that the rally ''has some legs.''
The Dow has gained 21 percent since early October and has retraced more than 80 percent of its bear market slide from 2007 to early 2009. The blue-chip index is now about 10 percent away from the all-time high it hit in October 2007, while the S. & P. and Nasdaq are both on track for a sixth week of gains.
The speed and magnitude of the gains have some suggesting a pullback could be imminent. While major indexes are slightly higher for the week, the CBOE Volatility index, which is considered a gauge of investor fear and generally moves inversely to the S. & P., has risen 6.3 percent.
Polo Ralph Lauren, the clothing maker, surged 9.2 percent to $171.49 after reporting better-than-expected results for the holiday quarter.
Energy shares were the biggest decliners, as Brent and crude oil futures in the United States pared gains after a report showed a buildup in crude inventories in the United States. The S. & P. energy index fell 0.5 percent. Exxon Mobil was one of the biggest losers on the Dow, falling 0.6 percent to $85.32.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 2/32, to 100 5/32, and the yield was unchanged at 1.98 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (69%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (69%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); GROUPON INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (69%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (54%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (54%); LAURENCE D FINK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (79%) EUROPE (91%); GREECE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



345 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Gay Marriage, in U.S. Courts and Statehouses

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''California Ban on Gay Unions Is Struck Down'' (front page, Feb. 8): 
The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit said Tuesday that Proposition 8 violates the constitutional rights of same-sex couples, and I applaud its decision.
Make no mistake: Proposition 8's defenders will continue to fight to make sure that fear and oppression win the war. They've already begun urging donors to step up the campaign to ensure that the Supreme Court upholds Proposition 8.
This is a turning point for California. Proposition 8 is upended, but it's not over yet. It's up to those of us who oppose Proposition 8 to see this battle through and stand together for equality.
DAVID C. BOHNETT Los Angeles, Feb. 8, 2012
The writer is a philanthropist and social activist.
To the Editor:
Re ''Java and Justice,'' by Frank Bruni (column, Feb. 7):
It's great that former State Representative Betty Sue Morris of Washington dropped her opposition to gay marriage after her daughter came out, but still, we elect representatives to consider the needs of everyone, not just those of their families.
Memo to elected officials: we all have friends or family members who are gay, unemployed, handicapped, poor, sick, elderly and so on. Please look out for our loved ones as assiduously as you look out for your own.
WILLIAM COLE Sitges, Spain, Feb. 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COHABITATION (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); WRITERS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



346 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Regulatory Approval Is Expected for New Reactors in Georgia

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For the first time in over three decades, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is expected to decide to grant a license to build a nuclear reactor -- a milestone for an industry whose long-hoped-for renaissance is smaller and later than anticipated.
The vote, set for Thursday, is on two new reactors at the Southern Company's Alvin W. Vogtle plant near Augusta, Ga. It would be the first vote on a construction license since 1978, a year before the Three Mile Island accident in Pennsylvania. 
In anticipation of approval, the company has already invested hundreds of millions of dollars in digging a foundation, laying pipes for cooling water and other steps at the site, where two reactors have been operating since the late 1980s.
Southern and its partners are swimming against the tide, betting that even with the project's approximately $14 billion price tag, nuclear power will prove cheaper than using coal, natural gas or any other source over the estimated 60-year lifetime of the reactors. Few other companies are willing to take the gamble, given the current economic and political picture.
Natural gas prices are at low levels, and pressures to address global warming by putting a price on carbon emissions have faded, diminishing hopes that nuclear energy will be championed as a cleaner alternative to fossil fuels.
''In the current environment, we have the combination of low natural gas prices, abundant supplies of natural gas, relatively modest electricity demand growth coming out of the recession and the lack of a price on carbon,'' said James K. Asselstine, managing director of Barclays Capital, who served on the regulatory commission from 1982 to 1987. ''It's probably unlikely we'll see other plants move to construction in the very near term.''
Vogtle 3 and 4 were supposed to be the first in a wave of new projects after the Bush administration set aside $17.5 billion in loan guarantees for nuclear projects. But the nuclear rebirth has been so puny that much of that money is still available. The Energy Department has promised an $8.3 billion loan guarantee for the two reactors.
Mr. Asselstine and others say that the only other reactors that conceivably could be built in the next few years are two planned at the V.C. Summer plant in South Carolina.
Both Georgia and South Carolina regulate their utilities in the traditional way, allowing them to collect whatever they prudently invest, plus a profit margin, from their customers through electricity rates.
Georgia Power, the Southern Company subsidiary building the plant, said in a 2008 filing with the state Public Service Commission that electricity generated by Vogtle 3 and 4 could cost customers $6.5 billion less than power generated by coal or natural gas in the lifetime of the reactors.
In much of the Northeast and Midwest and in California, power plants are mostly built by third parties that sell the electricity in daily auctions on the open market, a setup that makes a long-term bet against natural gas difficult for a private company to swallow. For example, Constellation Energy, based in Baltimore, gave up on a third unit at its Calvert Cliffs site in 2010 after the federal government sized up the economics and demanded a huge fee in exchange for a loan guarantee.
Some industry experts and antinuclear groups argue that the Vogtle project poses major risks. ''The potential is high for cost overruns, regulatory problems, outage issues, competing water needs in the state, drought situations, radioactive waste management issues and a range of ratepayer issues,'' the Southern Alliance for Clean Energy, an advocacy group, said in a filing with the Georgia Public Service Commission.
The new reactors would produce electricity at a cost of 7 to 9 cents per kilowatt-hour when Southern instead could be reducing demand by investing in efficiency at a cost of 3 cents per kilowatt-hour, the group said.
Nine organizations, including the Southern Alliance, said on Wednesday that they would sue to try to block the license because the commission had not adequately analyzed the new reactors' design for hazards in response to last year's disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan. The commission has ordered existing plants to adopt some safeguards in response to the Fukushima calamity and is considering others.
But other analysts say the decision could look quite smart in retrospect, depending on market and regulatory factors. ''What happens if we get fracking legislation?'' said Eric Beaumont, an analyst at the firm Copia Capital, referring to pressure for tougher limits on a drilling technique that has depressed natural gas prices and greatly expanded reserves.
''Natural gas isn't going to remain cheap forever,'' he said.
Carbon policy is another wild card, Mr. Beaumont said, suggesting that the political pendulum could shift back toward imposing a tax on emissions of greenhouse gases. With a few changes, ''lo and behold, it can make sense'' to build the reactors, he said.
Aside from the 34-year hiatus in approval of construction, the commission's action will be a milestone in some other ways.
If the reactors are completed, the Vogtle plant, in Waynesboro, Ga., will become the largest nuclear complex in the United States. And the two reactors are of a kind that has never been built before, the AP1000, a model by Westinghouse that is supposed to withstand earthquakes and plane crashes and be less vulnerable to operator error or to a loss of all electricity, the last of which caused the triple meltdown at Fukushima.
Nuclear advocates point out that the design is virtually complete. By contrast, designers of reactors in the last round of construction, in the 1960s, '70s and '80s, were usually half a step ahead of the builders, resulting in repeated redesigns and cost increases.
Another plus is that China has four AP1000s ahead of Vogtle in the pipeline, enabling Southern to dispatch teams to watch those plants being built.
The company estimates that 3,400 workers will be on site in Waynesboro at the peak of construction, up from 1,500 now.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In anticipation of the approval of two new reactors, Southern Company is preparing a site at its Alvin W. Vogtle plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOUTHERN COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BOILER MFG (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); UTILITY RATES (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (85%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (85%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (85%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (92%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (65%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



347 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: An Outsider Gives Voice To Slumdogs

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
Unlike many journalists Katherine Boo aspires to invisibility. She hates publicity and talks about herself with about as much ease as someone trying to wriggle from a thicket -- stopping, pausing, retracing her sentences and looking for a better way out. In her new book, ''Behind the Beautiful Forevers: Life, Death and Hope in a Mumbai Undercity,'' the word ''I'' doesn't appear until an author's note on page 247, and by then it's a little jarring. 
One result is that ''Beautiful Forevers,'' a nonfiction account of the 3,000 or so people who live in Annawadi, a ''sumpy plug of slum'' on the outskirts of the Mumbai airport, reads almost like a novel: a true-life version of ''Slumdog Millionaire'' without the Bollywood ending. The characters include various thieves and Dumpster divers; the neighborhood ward boss and her prized daughter, who is earning a college degree by rote, memorizing word for word the plots of ''Mrs. Dalloway'' and ''The Way of the World''; and a man who makes a living of sorts by racing a carriage drawn by horses painted to look like zebras. The plot turns on a seemingly petty feud in which a disgruntled woman sets herself on fire and then blames her neighbors, two of whom wind up jail, where they are brazenly extorted by a legal system that thrives on corruption.
Joseph Lelyveld, a former executive editor of The New York Times who has written extensively about India, wrote in an e-mail message that ''Beautiful Forevers'' is ''the best piece of reporting to come out of India in a half century at least'' and compared it to another groundbreaking book about poverty, George Orwell's ''Road to Wigan Pier.''
In her early visits to Annawadi, which began in 2007, Ms. Boo, who is small, blond and delicate looking and knew none of the half dozen or so languages spoken there, was anything but invisible. There are, or used to be, two main landmarks in the slum: a concrete wall with ads for Italian tiles (''Beautiful Forever'') that give the book its title, and a foul-smelling sewage lake: a junk-rimmed pool of excrement, monsoon runoff and petrochemicals. While videotaping one day, Ms. Boo fell in, and when she came out her feet were blue.
''At first it was a circus act,'' she said in New York the other day. ''It was, 'Look at that crazy white woman!' '' But she spent so much time in Annawadi, reporting almost daily for four- or five-month stints over a span of four years, that eventually she became a fixture and was taken for granted. ''The people got bored with me,'' she said, ''and they started laughing when others thought I was interesting. I think some of them even felt sorry for me.''
In 2009 Ms. Boo wrote an article for The New Yorker, where she has been a staff writer since 2003, describing the Mumbai premiere of ''Slumdog Millionaire'' and contrasting its lavishness with the lives of some of her slum dwellers. The story was picked up and translated by a Marathi-language newspaper. This got her in hot water with the local police, who were irritated by her suggestion that they had covered up a murder of a young slum dweller, but also gave her credibility with the Annawadians. ''They saw that I was really doing what I said I was doing,'' she said. ''They saw that I even got the jokes.''
Ms. Boo was introduced to Mumbai by her husband, Sunil Khilnani, a former Johns Hopkins University professor who spends part of every year there and thought she could write about India in a way less condescending than many Westerners. Initially she was hesitant: there was the language barrier, and also her shaky health.
Since her late teens Ms. Boo, who is now 47, has suffered from rheumatoid arthritis and several related immunological disorders. She walks a little slowly and sometimes has trouble with her eyes. Her fingers are gnarled and bent. That she is still able to type is owing in large part to a 2002 MacArthur grant, which helped pay for surgery on her right hand.
For someone in her condition the best treatment is drugs that suppress the immune system, and these do not make such a person an ideal candidate for spending time in a slum where tuberculosis is practically epidemic. But one night Ms. Boo tripped over an unabridged dictionary in her own apartment, puncturing a lung and breaking three ribs, and decided home wasn't much safer. ''I thought if I don't work, I'm risking my mental health,'' she said.
For as long as she has been a writer, Ms. Boo has only wanted to write about the poor and the disadvantaged. In 2000, while at The Washington Post, she won a Pulitzer Prize for a series about the mistreatment of the mentally retarded in the Washington area. ''I think I grew up with a healthy respect for volatility, all the things you can't control,'' she said. ''And I became aware of the ways in which people who write about the disadvantaged often underestimate its psychological contours, the uncertainty -- economic or whatever.''
Ms. Boo is herself both a late bloomer and a prodigy. She grew up in and around Washington, where her parents, both Minnesotans, moved when her father became an aide to Representative Eugene McCarthy. (The family name is Swedish, an Americanized version of Bo.) After high school, by her own account a ''confused late adolescent,'' Ms. Boo took the civil service exam and became a clerk typist for the General Services Administration. When she discovered she was ill, she quit and stayed at home for a while, just reading, and then went to night school while typing again, this time for the Federal Election Commission.
Ms. Boo graduated from Barnard in the late '80s, still typing -- for The Columbia Daily Spectator, for which she wrote editorials -- and was hired by Jack Shafer, then the editor of the Washington City Paper. Mr. Shafer, now a columnist for Reuters, said recently that he was impressed less by her writing then by her voluminous reading and her ability to think on her feet, and was amazed by how accomplished her first article was. ''She had the soul of a poet but the arm strength of an investigative reporter,'' he recalled.
Soon afterward he made Ms. Boo his No. 2, responsible not just for writing but also for editing the work of others, and from there she moved up the ladder to The Washington Monthly and then The Post, where she became known for the way she combined investigative digging, on-the-street reporting and brilliant writing. But she was never comfortable with interviewing official sources, she said, and is still proud she has never had lunch with one.
Another thing that makes her uncomfortable is policy wonkery, and by design ''Beautiful Forevers,'' a book as depressing as it is memorable, has no summing-up chapter full of recommendations. ''I respect the division of labor,'' she said. ''My job is to lay it out clearly, not to give my policy prescriptions.'' She added: ''Very little journalism is world changing. But if change is to happen, it will be because people with power have a better sense of what's happening to people who have none.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Katherine Boo, a Pulitzer Prize winner who delved into the slums. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); BURN INJURIES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); EXTORTION (64%); PETROCHEMICALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Behind the Beautiful Forevers (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



348 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: The White Underclass

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Persistent poverty is America's great moral challenge, but it's far more than that.
As a practical matter, we can't solve educational problems, health care costs, government spending or economic competitiveness so long as a chunk of our population is locked in an underclass. Historically, ''underclass'' has often been considered to be a euphemism for race, but increasingly it includes elements of the white working class as well.
That's the backdrop for the uproar over Charles Murray's latest book, ''Coming Apart.'' Murray critically examines family breakdown among working-class whites and the decline in what he sees as traditional values of diligence. 
Liberals have mostly denounced the book, and I, too, disagree with important parts of it. But he's right to highlight social dimensions of the crisis among low-skilled white workers.
My touchstone is my beloved hometown of Yamhill, Ore., population about 925 on a good day. We Americans think of our rural American heartland as a lovely pastoral backdrop, but these days some marginally employed white families in places like Yamhill seem to be replicating the pathologies that have devastated many African-American families over the last generation or two.
One scourge has been drug abuse. In rural America, it's not heroin but methamphetamine; it has shattered lives in Yamhill and left many with criminal records that make it harder to find good jobs. With parents in jail, kids are raised on the fly.
Then there's the eclipse of traditional family patterns. Among white American women with only a high school education, 44 percent of births are out of wedlock, up from 6 percent in 1970, according to Murray.
Liberals sometimes feel that it is narrow-minded to favor traditional marriage. Over time, my reporting on poverty has led me to disagree: Solid marriages have a huge beneficial impact on the lives of the poor (more so than in the lives of the middle class, who have more cushion when things go wrong).
One study of low-income delinquent young men in Boston found that one of the factors that had the greatest impact in turning them away from crime was marrying women they cared about. As Steven Pinker notes in his recent book, ''The Better Angels of Our Nature'': ''The idea that young men are civilized by women and marriage may seem as corny as Kansas in August, but it has become a commonplace of modern criminology.''
Jobs are also critical as a pathway out of poverty, and Murray is correct in noting that it is troubling that growing numbers of working-class men drop out of the labor force. The proportion of men of prime working age with only a high school education who say they are ''out of the labor force'' has quadrupled since 1968, to 12 percent.
In 1965, Daniel Patrick Moynihan released a famous report warning of a crisis in African-American family structures, and many liberals at the time accused him of something close to racism. In retrospect, Moynihan was right to sound the alarms.
Today, I fear we're facing a crisis in which a chunk of working-class America risks being calcified into an underclass, marked by drugs, despair, family decline, high incarceration rates and a diminishing role of jobs and education as escalators of upward mobility. We need a national conversation about these dimensions of poverty, and maybe Murray can help trigger it. I fear that liberals are too quick to think of inequality as basically about taxes. Yes, our tax system is a disgrace, but poverty is so much deeper and more complex than that.
Where Murray is profoundly wrong, I think, is to blame liberal social policies for the pathologies he examines. Yes, I've seen disability programs encourage some people to drop out of the labor force. But there were far greater forces at work, such as the decline in good union jobs.
Eighty percent of the people in my high school cohort dropped out or didn't pursue college because it used to be possible to earn a solid living at the steel mill, the glove factory or sawmill. That's what their parents had done. But the glove factory closed, working-class jobs collapsed and unskilled laborers found themselves competing with immigrants.
There aren't ideal solutions, but some evidence suggests that we need more social policy, not less. Early childhood education can support kids being raised by struggling single parents. Treating drug offenders is far cheaper than incarcerating them.
A new study finds that a jobs program for newly released prison inmates left them 22 percent less likely to be convicted of another crime. This initiative, by the Center for Employment Opportunities, more than paid for itself: each $1 brought up to $3.85 in benefits.
So let's get real. A crisis is developing in the white working class, a byproduct of growing income inequality in America. The pathologies are achingly real. But the solution isn't finger-wagging, or averting our eyes -- but opportunity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WOMEN (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MEN (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); HEROIN (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: Coming Apart (Book); Better Angels of Our Nature, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



349 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Wealth; SPECIAL SECTION: WEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Color the 1 Percent 99 Percent Conflicted

BYLINE: By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
SOON after the Occupy Wall Street encampment was set up at Zuccotti Park in Manhattan last fall, 26-year-old Ryan Quick told his father, Leslie C. Quick III, a financier, that he might drop by the site.
''Don't you even let me see you over there,'' the father replied.
The senior Mr. Quick later said that he and his son were both ''half-kidding'' each other. But he need not have worried about any class rebellion. According to Mr. Quick, his son came back from his visit and said: ''It just looks like a Phish concert. It's difficult to get engaged by something that doesn't really have a purpose.''
As scions of a family that co-founded Quick & Reilly, a pioneering discount brokerage firm acquired for $1.6 billion by another company in 1997, the Quicks are undoubtedly among the ''1 percent'' -- the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans targeted by the Occupy Wall Street movement. Indeed, having made their fortune in finance, the Quicks might be particular targets. 
According to census data, the 1 percent -- a label that became common after a much-cited 2003 study of American income inequality -- have an annual household income of about $380,000 a year. Federal tax data shows that the average was $957,000. And in an election year, anger at them persists, even though Zuccotti Park and other flagship encampments in Boston, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and San Francisco are now shut down.
The ''1 percenters'' themselves have a mix of reactions to the outrage directed at them, including annoyance, skepticism, anger, fear, lack of interest and guilt. Some at the low end of the 1 percent threshold may not even feel all that wealthy, especially if they live in expensive places like Manhattan. Some have deliberately scaled back their lifestyles, while others have used the headlines to start family discussions of wealth and moral values.
Most of all, the superrich seem puzzled. Many clients asked Teresa Leigh, owner of Household Risk Management, a North Carolina-based advisory service for wealthy households, to explain just what all the headlines are about. ''It's on the front page of the paper, they see me -- it's lunch conversation,'' she said. Whether they are entrepreneurs who feel they earned their 1 percent, or liberals who have donated time and money to the same causes that the Occupy Wall Street protesters support, they are asking: Why target me?
''Almost all my clients are self-made,'' said Christopher J. Cordaro, chief executive of RegentAtlantic Capital, a wealth management firm based in Morristown, N.J., whose clients have at least $2 million in investable assets. ''They're saying, 'We worked hard, we went to college, we tried to better our lives. Isn't that what I'm supposed to do?' ''
That is also the Quick family's history. When he joined the year-old family firm after graduating from college in 1975, Leslie Quick recalled, ''we didn't know if my father was going to declare bankruptcy or this discount brokerage thing was going to work.''
He added, ''I look at Occupy Wall Street and say, 'But for the grace of God, I wouldn't be close to the 1 percent.' ''
Ross Levin, president of Accredited Investors in Edina, Minn., which represents 400 clients with at least $2 million to invest, suggested that their reactions to the Occupy movement had much to do with their own individual politics. ''Conservatives can look at the tattoo-wearing, drum-beating people and say, 'Of course they're not going to get jobs,' '' he said. Meanwhile, ''the progressives tend to be more conflicted, because they have a difficult time juggling their own success with the inequality.''
Joel B. Zweibel might seem to fit the protesters' stereotype of a 1 percenter: A retired senior partner at the law firm O'Melveny & Myers, he spent his career representing big banks seeking to preserve their investments in companies that filed for bankruptcy.
Yet Mr. Zweibel might be just as easily found among the demonstrators: He participated in ''ban the bomb'' marches in the 1960s and has donated to such Democratic politicians as President Obama and Bill Clinton and the banking critic and consumer advocate Elizabeth Warren, now running for the United States Senate from Massachusetts (like the former two, herself a member of the 1 percent, according to reports of her recent financial disclosures).
Mr. Zweibel said the Occupy movement made him furious, not at the protesters but at some of his wealthy colleagues. ''There is no reason why the 1 percent can't donate, not just money, but ideas, learning skills, mentoring,'' he said. He talks passionately about the career and personal mentoring program he co-founded at Baruch College.
Whatever their emotional reaction, few people seem to have made any significant changes in their daily lives. Mr. Levin noticed that five or six clients bought hybrid cars rather than more expensive, less fuel-efficient Mercedeses. And in buying a new home, one couple eschewed the most prestigious neighborhood in Minneapolis, near the Guthrie Theater, settling for a second-best location across the Mississippi River.
In all these cases, Mr. Levin said, the clients specifically told him that ''they don't want to make that kind of statement'' about their wealth ''because of what's going on.''
But such examples are a rarity. If the rich have cut back a bit on spending, many experts said, it was more likely because of the recession.
Rather than downsizing their lifestyles, ''they're spending more money on protecting their homes,'' said Paul M. Viollis Sr., the chief executive of Risk Control Strategies, a security advisory firm based in New York City, whose clients have an average net worth of more than $100 million.
Ever since the Occupy protests began, Mr. Viollis said, his clients -- many of them high-level financial executives -- have noticed an increase in ''harassment'' in, for example, e-mails and phone calls saying, in essence, ''I lost my job, so who the hell do you think you are having a bonus like this?'' In response, he said, demand for bodyguards, security-trained drivers, home security guards and other personal protection quadrupled from the beginning to the end of 2011. Mr. Cordaro also said some of his clients who work on Wall Street complained that the marches and police security had ''made their commuting a real pain.''
But on a more philosophical level, the protests' biggest impact on 1 percenters may be to spur discussions with the next generation.
When the extended family of three brothers who built a major Southern construction company gathered for Christmas dinner last year, the teenagers and young adults asked the parents, ''What do you think of Occupy Wall Street?'' according to Nathan Dungan, a Minneapolis-based author and consultant on the topic of families and wealth who has advised this family.
He said the parents replied: ''We don't take exorbitant salaries, and we give a lot of people in our community jobs. We worked hard to be in this place.'' Then, he noted, the family went to the local food pantry, as it does every year, to donate food and help serve dinner.
Even many of the most skeptical 1 percenters acknolwedge that the Occupy movement has some valid points about the nation's huge wealth disparity and questionable banking practices that led to the financial crisis. ''They get why people are upset,'' Mr. Cordaro said. ''They know it's incredibly difficult to make it as the middle class.''
For his part, Mr. Zweibel said he was in total sympathy. ''If I was younger, I would be out there,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GIVING BACK: Joel Zweibel, who is in the 1 percent category, mentors students at Baruch College. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (68%); CENSUS (68%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); LIBERALISM (61%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



350 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Deal Beneficial To Hotel Union Is Seen by Some As Special Case

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
By summer 2018, thousands of people who spend their days changing sheets and towels in hotel rooms across New York City could be the envy of the blue-collar world, earning nearly $60,000 a year with a promise of full medical benefits for their families and pensions when they retire.
The proposed labor contract covering 30,000 members of the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council, A.F.L.-C.I.O., is so beneficial to workers that it seems born from a different era. 
Wages would rise by more than 29 percent over the next seven years. A housekeeper, now making a little more than $25 an hour, would have her annual pay rise to $59,823 in mid-2018. She would continue to receive full medical, dental and eye-care benefits, and her employer's contribution to her pension would rise each year.
Officials of other unions enviously dismissed the proposed contract as a special case that was not likely to be replicated in the private sector anytime soon. Still, some of them wondered, how were those terms even on the table in an era of dwindling union clout, frozen pensions and unpaid furloughs?
The simple answer was emblazoned on flashing billboards surrounding Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in Times Square two months ago. Record numbers of tourists have flocked to New York -- more than 50 million last year, the mayor said -- filling its growing list of hotels at higher and higher tariffs.
Last year, the average hotel in Manhattan charged $275 a night and filled 85 percent of its available rooms, according to data compiled by PKF Consulting USA. In other words, the typical hotel room in Manhattan brought in more than $85,000 last year, before its occupants spent an additional dollar on room service or on souvenirs in the lobby gift shop.
''They know the industry's doing very well and has for the last two or three years,'' said James Parrott, chief economist for the pro-union Fiscal Policy Institute, referring to the council's leaders. Still, he added, the negotiation that led to the proposed deal was ''not influenced by the broader currents at work in the economy that have been bearing down on both business and labor, particularly labor.''
Another factor is that health-care costs, the bugaboo of most labor negotiations, was not at issue here. Officials of the hotel union say their costs are held down because they provide care through four clinics that the union and the association jointly operate. The union's members go to those clinics -- two in Manhattan, one in Brooklyn and one in Queens -- for their basic medical, dental and optical services.
By comparison, the union representing the workers who clean offices throughout the city, Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, ratified a contract last month that was not as rich. The office workers, who make about $2 an hour less than hotel housekeepers now, accepted wage increases of just 5.6 percent over four years. By the last year of that contract, the office workers will be earning about $4.50 an hour less than the housekeepers, though they also receive health coverage with no out-of-pocket costs.
The hotel contract is more in line with the last contract the New York Police Department worked out with the city; it called for annual raises of 4 percent for each of its four years. Under that contract, the base pay of a police officer with two years on the job is only about $2,000 more than a housekeeper makes. But the police pay rises at a much faster rate as an officer gains experience, while the hotel workers earn the same hourly rate regardless of how long they have worked.
John Turchiano, a spokesman for the hotel union, said the housekeepers, who clean 12 to 14 rooms a day, were ''the backbone of our union,'' making up about half of the employees of the hotels. The proposed contract, he said, ''allows many of our members to afford to live in the city where they work.''
Though there has not been a citywide strike by hotel workers in 25 years, officials of the city's hotel industry seemed pleased to have come to terms with the union with minimal animosity. The president of the hotel association, Joseph E. Spinnato, said the terms were in line with those the workers had previously received.
''Historically, the contracts have provided fully paid medical benefits and have set forth periodic increases in the contributions that hotels make to the pensions,'' Mr. Spinnato said.
The contract, already approved by the Hotel Association of New York City, is expected to be ratified by the union members on Monday.
Mr. Parrott, while acknowledging how well the hotel workers fared, said he hoped that the proposed deal was not an anomaly but a herald of better prospects for workers in other industries. ''Maybe that's a leading indicator for the economy, that things are improving,'' he said, sounding as if he was trying to convince himself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK HOTEL & MOTEL TRADES COUNCIL (57%); AFL-CIO (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



351 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: The Piracy Problem: How Broad?

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM and AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
When Fred Wilson, a prominent New York venture capitalist who has backed Twitter and Zynga, wanted to watch the Knicks game last month, he got an unpleasant surprise. Time Warner Cable was not showing the game because of a contract dispute.
Frustrated, he turned to the Internet for help. Within minutes he was streaming the game illegally on his big-screen TV.
''It's not that we don't want to pay for our sports entertainment,'' Mr. Wilson wrote on his blog after the fact. ''But last night we were turned into 'pirates,' as the entertainment industry likes to call us.''
Plenty of Knicks fans can sympathize with Mr. Wilson's plight. And his rationale makes perfect sense to people in tech circles, who increasingly expect to have almost everything available on demand, and resent it when media companies stand in their way. 
That is not how media companies and the entertainment industry see it. From their perspective, tapping into pirate streams and file-sharing sites is no different from shoplifting in the supermarket.
''Copyright violations are a serious business and we don't condone that in any way,'' said Alexander Dudley, a Time Warner Cable spokesman, when asked about Mr. Wilson's desperate measures.
The recent highly publicized fight over two bills aimed at cracking down on online piracy threw a spotlight on this same disconnect between the Internet industry and the media giants of Hollywood and New York. Despite lobbying by big players like the Motion Picture Association of America, lawmakers abandoned the bills after tech companies and groups, and ordinary Internet users, mounted a frenzy of protests, saying the bills would hurt Internet freedom and innovation.
Now the challenge is for the two sides to find common ground on how to combat the piracy problem -- though they can't even come to terms on how big a problem it is.
''The fundamental issue is whether or not the sky is falling and the entertainment industry is being decimated by technology,'' said James Burger, a lawyer who specializes in intellectual property and entertainment content licensing.
Seeking out an illicit stream of a game that you should be able to watch legitimately is one thing. But media companies say they are facing a relentless barrage of far less defensible thefts involving movies, television shows and music.
In a letter in December announcing its support for stronger antipiracy legislation, the motion picture association said that ''$58 billion is lost to the U.S. economy annually due to content theft, including more than 373,000 lost American jobs, $16 billion in lost employees' earnings, plus $3 billion in badly needed federal, state and local governments' tax revenue.'' A spokesman for the association, Howard Gantman, said the $58 billion figure came from an economic model that estimated piracy's impact on a range of tangentially related industries -- florists, restaurants, trucking companies and so on.
Many outside the industry are skeptical of its analysis. ''The movie business is fond of throwing out numbers about how many millions of dollars are at risk and how many thousands of jobs are lost,'' said Art Brodsky, who works for Public Knowledge, a digital rights group. ''We don't think it correlates to the state of the industry.''
In one of the most public steps forward since last month's fight, Mr. Brodsky's group pulled together a coalition of more than 70 tech companies and advocacy groups, including Amnesty International, Consumers Union, Reddit and the Electronic Frontier Foundation, that sent a letter to Congress on Monday calling for lawmakers to rethink their approach.
''Now is the time for Congress to take a breath, step back, and approach the issues from a fresh perspective,'' the letter says. It urges Congress to quantify the extent of piracy and its economic effects ''from accurate and unbiased sources, and weigh them against the economic and social costs of new copyright legislation.''
Some in the Internet world, including Tim O'Reilly, a noted investor and chief executive of the tech-books publisher O'Reilly Media, go so far as to question whether illegitimate downloading and sharing is such a bad thing. In fact, some say that it could even be a boon to artists and other creators.
''The losses due to piracy are far outweighed by the benefits of the free flow of information, which makes the world richer, and develops new markets for legitimate content,'' he wrote in a blog post. ''Most of the people who are downloading unauthorized copies of O'Reilly books would never have paid us for them anyway.''
That free flow of information, media companies worry, is making consumers accustomed to getting something for nothing. Privately, several senior media executives said technology companies wanted to devalue copyrighted media content because it ultimately benefited the technology companies' business.
''If intellectual property developed by creative people and covered by copyright was as respected as intellectual property developed by engineers and protected by patents, this problem would greatly improve,'' said a Viacom executive who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.
Viacom is currently appealing a copyright infringement case against YouTube. In 2010 a federal judge ruled in favor of YouTube's owner, Google, which Viacom accused of seeking to profit from thousands of clips from shows like ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart,'' posted by users.
Media executives have a particular beef with Google. Some claim it started the online fervor over the antipiracy bills to advance its own business interests. Michael O'Leary, a senior executive vice president at the motion picture association, put it this way: ''I'd ask Google, 'How many jobs do we have to lose before they start taking this seriously?' ''
A Google spokeswoman, Samantha Smith, said the company was ''heavily invested in the fight against piracy,'' noting that last year it took down five million infringing Web pages and spent more than $60 million to root out ''bad ads,'' including those for illegal or pirated goods.
Google also says it has developed ways to address the piracy problem on its own sites, pointing to Content ID, a system put in place after the Viacom suit was filed that helps copyright holders find material they own on YouTube and remove it or leave it up and share in the ad revenue.
Media companies have no plans to immediately revisit the antipiracy legislation. Instead, several entertainment executives said they planned to reorganize and talk to labor unions, pharmaceutical companies and other backers of the legislation about a unified message so the antipiracy and anticounterfeiting movement was not just associated with Hollywood. These executives, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the issue is so heated, also said they wanted to look at how they could better harness the Web to educate the public about piracy.
Of course, as consumers embrace online video and music in both legal and illegal forms, media companies have also been learning new tricks. Warner Brothers, for example, now offers a digital locker, part of an industrywide push to let customers who buy a DVD or Blu-ray disc obtain access to the movie on many different devices.
''We're trying to create a compelling option for consumers, but at the end of the day, unlike the pirates, we're charging them,'' said Kevin Tsujihara, the president of home entertainment for Warner Brothers.
The locker is the latest effort to stem the decline in home entertainment revenue, driven largely by Netflix and Redbox rentals, but also by piracy. The research firm SNL Kagan estimates that industry revenue from video rentals and sales fell 10.5 percent to $18.5 billion in 2010.
Media companies are also making more content available online. In 2007, Erik Flannigan, now the executive vice president for digital media at the Viacom Entertainment Group, did a Google search for ''South Park'' on a giant screen at Viacom's Times Square headquarters and took senior executives on a tour of sites offering pirated episodes.
Today, Comedy Central makes every episode of ''South Park,'' ''The Daily Show'' and ''The Colbert Report'' available free online. The efforts, Mr. Flannigan said, put a big dent in piracy. As for the television industry as a whole, Mr. Flannigan said: ''You might not like the windows, or that shows go up and come down, but it's a far cry from where we were.''
Still, Comedy Central shows do not make billions in syndication or in DVD sales like some TV series. Shows like CBS's ''The Big Bang Theory,'' which sold for $2 million an episode to Time Warner's TBS and Fox, are not as easy to stream legitimately. That makes piracy a tempting option.
''If they don't make content available where consumers are, they're just shooting themselves in the foot,'' said Ron Conway, a Silicon Valley investor and the head of the SV Angel investment fund.
Online Correction: February 8, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the motion picture association's estimate of lost employees' earnings as $16 million, rather than billion. The earlier version also misspelled James Burger's surname as Berger.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hundreds protested antipiracy bills in New York last month. Congress later abandoned the bills. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); FILM (86%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (86%); ONLINE PIRACY (77%); INTERNET CRIME (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); COPYRIGHT (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); LOBBYING (69%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); SHOPLIFTING (68%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



352 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Youths Are Watching, But Less Often on TV

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Television is America's No. 1 pastime, with an average of four hours and 39 minutes consumed by every person every day.
But more and more young people are tuning in elsewhere.
Americans ages 12 to 34 are spending less time in front of TV sets, even as those 35 and older are spending more, according to research that will be released on Thursday by Nielsen, a company that tracks media use.
The divide along a demographic line reveals the effect of Internet videos, social networks, mobile phones and video games -- in short, all the alternatives to the television set that are taking up growing slices of the American attention span. Young people are still watching the same shows, but they are streaming them on computers and phones to a greater degree than their parents or grandparents do.
It has long been predicted that these new media would challenge traditional television viewing, but this is the first significant evidence to emerge in research data. If the trends hold, the long-term implications for the media industry are huge, possibly causing billions of dollars in annual advertising spending to shift away from old-fashioned TV. 
Gary Carr, a senior vice president for TargetCast TCM, which buys ad time for companies, said that while the dip was ''not cause for panic,'' it merited concern and careful monitoring. ''Young people are always the first group to be doing other things, trying other things,'' Mr. Carr said.
Echoing those sentiments, executives at several major media companies said their proprietary research affirmed that there had been a dip in overall youth viewership in recent months, though they said it had not yet led to a meaningful effect on the ratings for individual channels.
The television industry has been expecting -- and dreading the day -- that TV viewing peaks, and then either plateaus or slowly declines in the face of encroaching Internet and phone use. According to data that Nielsen will release on Thursday, television viewing as a whole is steady, in part because older Americans -- particularly those over the age of 65 -- are watching more than ever before. Digital video recorders deserve some of the credit for the uptick, since they let people stockpile shows.
But for three straight quarters, there have been declines in viewing among Americans under 35, even when DVR viewership is factored in, according to Nielsen data analyzed by The New York Times.
Adults ages 25 to 34, for instance, watched about four and a half fewer hours of television in the third quarter of 2011 than at the same time in 2010 -- the equivalent of about nine minutes a day. Viewers ages 12 to 17 also watched about nine fewer minutes a day. The demographic in between, those ages 18 to 24, watched about six fewer minutes a day.
Pat McDonough, a senior vice president at Nielsen, said this week that the company was watching youth viewing behavior ''very closely,'' and acknowledged in an interview that she had seen ''a little bit'' of a drop-off in youth viewership. She cautioned, however, that there had been fluctuations in the past, and noted that traditional television viewership in 2010 was very high. (This is possibly a reflection of economic circumstances, since television viewing tends to grow when the American economy does not.) The shorter National Football League preseason in 2011 may have also influenced year-over-year comparisons, she said.
As behaviors shift, there is likely to be a scramble to identify winners and losers. Viacom, the owner of Nickelodeon, criticized Nielsen last fall after ratings showed that the channel suffered from a sudden drop in children's viewing.
According to data for the first nine months of 2011, children spent as much time in front of the television set as they did in 2010, and in some cases spent more. But the proportion of live viewing is shrinking while time-shifted viewing is expanding.
Zach Dulli, a director of operations for the National Council for Geographic Education in Washington, has noticed that his children, Max and Huck, like the TV set, but they like laptops and cellphones more. Now that Huck has mastered the finger swipe to turn on an iPad, Mr. Dulli and his wife, Stephanie, prepare ''Baby Einstein'' for him to watch on the device. Huck is eight months old.
''To us, TV is separate from the other media we use,'' Mr. Dulli said. ''To my sons, it's not.''
To a child, television shows on the iPad are still television, but to Nielsen, it's not: the company counts computer and mobile streams of shows separately, making it difficult for the television industry to get a handle on changing habits.
On Sunday, for the first time, the Super Bowl was broadcast online as well as on television, but the ads were sold separately and the ratings were reported separately. About 2.1 million unique users watched the live stream at some point during the game, while about 111.3 million people watched on television at any given time during the game. NBC says there was some overlap, but that it was hard to know how much. But the network has said that the game was the ''most-watched single-game sports event ever online.''
Accordingly, there is a growing sense of urgency within the industry to make online and mobile viewing as measurable as traditional couch-bound viewing. Ad-buying agencies are gradually moving some client money to the Web to reach the 20- and 30-somethings who are becoming harder to reach with traditional television.
''Television still reaches young audiences in a major, major way,'' said Billie Gold, the director of programming research for Carat USA, an ad-buying agency.
That said, just before a phone interview on Wednesday, Ms. Gold ran the preliminary numbers for the first few weeks of 2012, and she saw a dip in youth viewing compared with the same period last year. ''This is why we're incorporating more digital and online video'' into our advertising plans, she said. ''We know it's a place to replace some of the young audience that is leaving television.''
Just ask Jay Rishel, a system administrator in York, Pa., whose son Cory, 4, has become accustomed to watching television via Roku, a small box that streams shows through the Internet. On Tuesday night, Cory asked his dad if he had watched television via Roku growing up. When his dad said no, Cory then asked, ''So you could only watch DVDs?''
''Since it was bedtime, I didn't try to explain we had four channels available when I was growing up,'' Mr. Rishel, 31, said. ''I don't think he knows what a channel even is.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a downward trend in younger Americans' television-watching time misstated in some copies the given name of the wife of Zach Dulli, who commented on his sons' affinity for laptops and cellphones, and gave the wrong age for one of his sons. His wife is Stephanie, not Minky, and his son Huck is 8 months old, not 11 months old. The article also misstated the age of Jay Rishel, who commented on his son's TV-watching habits. Mr. Rishel is 31, not 41.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: More young people are turning to devices besides TVs, like tablets, to watch video. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (79%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (79%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (79%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (79%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (79%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); TRENDS (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); MOBILE MEDIA (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); CD & DVD DRIVES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



353 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: For Kyl, One Last Stand in the Crossfire

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona hustled through the Capitol on Wednesday to huddle with fellow Republicans trying to head off the next political train wreck for their party, another crisis over the expiring payroll tax cut.
Weary and frustrated, he was not optimistic. ''We've got about a week to get a lot of work done,'' he said.
Mr. Kyl helped create the two-percentage-point payroll cut in late 2010 in a deal with President Obama that also extended President George W. Bush's tax cuts. Now, as he has been since Mr. Obama reached the White House, Mr. Kyl is the Republicans' man in the middle, trying to keep the tax cut alive. Democrats smell blood in the water and are trying to drive the hardest possible bargain. House Republicans are itching for a fight. And Mr. Kyl is losing patience.
''I wouldn't call these negotiations,'' he grumbled, ''yet.'' 
The payroll tax talks may be the last chance for Mr. Kyl, 69, who will retire next January, to salvage his deal-making reputation. That took a beating after the collapse of his last negotiations, with the bipartisan ''supercommittee'' charged with reaching a major deficit reduction deal in the fall. Mr. Kyl was also the chief Republican negotiator in the effort to prevent the expiration of the Bush tax cuts, the party's point man on the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, and the Republican leadership's voice in a succession of fruitless deficit reduction talks before the committee was created.
By Wednesday afternoon, as he walked into the meeting just off the House chamber, Mr. Kyl had become a challenge for his fellow negotiators: Leaders from both parties say no deal can be reached without his assent, but getting that assent has become next to impossible.
''I don't think it means anything about my negotiation skills,'' Mr. Kyl said about the string of failed talks. ''But Congress has a hard time getting things done. That's true.''
After a quarter-century in Congress -- four terms in the House and then three in the Senate -- the Arizonan is not easing into retirement. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, has made Mr. Kyl, the No. 2 Senate Republican, his No. 1 negotiator. In that role, he is the emissary of the Republican leadership, a gatekeeper of conservatism, and a bridge between his party's most ardent conservatives and more pragmatic centrists. He is a small-government conservative doing all he can to head off military cuts. He is an antitax crusader who at first argued against the payroll tax cut, then successfully demanded that it be paid for, even though he says extended cuts in income taxes need not be.
And now he is the man pressing for a quick, politically painless resolution to a payroll tax fight that left his party divided and suffering politically in December.
''Mitch McConnell has a deep-seated hatred of me, and this is his punishment,'' he joked in an interview in his Senate office.
In 2007, Mr. Kyl led Republicans in negotiations for an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws. As those talks approached a ''grand bargain,'' the conservative grass roots revolted, singeing Mr. Kyl badly. The talks collapsed, but ever since, both parties have recognized that he may be the rare member of his party who combines the trust of conservatives, policy smarts and forcefulness that are needed to secure deals that can pass.
''Jon Kyl combines policy knowledge with an understanding of where the political fault lines are for Republicans,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, who has spent countless hours with him in tax and budget talks.
Senator Patrick Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, said: ''I wouldn't want to suggest that after his retirement all hope is lost. That would be overstating it. But he has been something close to the essential man.''
Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican who was on the deficit reduction committee, agreed. ''Jon has the ability to work with all parts of our conference, with Olympia Snowe and with David Vitter,'' he said naming one of the most moderate Senate Republicans and one of the most conservative. ''There has to be someone who at end of day says, 'This may not be perfect, but it moves the country forward,' and there has to be respect for that voice.''
Mr. Kyl's record and importance counter the image of him as a deal killer, caricatured amid the recent flurry of negotiating sessions as a Prince of Darkness deployed by Mr. McConnell to make sure more impressionable Republicans do not get lured into side deals with Democrats that would violate Republican principles on taxes and spending.
That emerged especially from the bipartisan supercommittee, formally the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. From the first day, Democrats say, Mr. Kyl set a negative tone. Publicly, he warned his colleagues against further military cuts. Privately, he pressed to keep the committee's deficit-cutting ambitions modest, in part to avoid any real tax increases. In the end, the committee failed, and many Democrats pointed at Mr. Kyl as a major source of the difficulty.
High-profile failures like that one, the immigration talks, and private deficit negotiations with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican, have received much of the attention. But Mr. Kyl also led talks in December 2010 that secured a two-year extension of income tax rates put in place by Mr. Bush along with the cut in the payroll tax, a yearlong extension of unemployment benefits and other tax deals Mr. Obama wanted.
Mr. Van Hollen, who was also involved in those tax talks, marveled at Mr. Kyl's triumph, a temporary compromise on the estate tax that left estates of up to $5 million per individual or $10 million for married couples untaxed, with the value of estates above that taxed at 35 percent. Mr. Van Hollen called it ''a huge sweetheart deal for the very wealthiest estates in the country.'' It was the culmination of years of effort by Mr. Kyl to roll back the tax.
Mr. Kyl said the seeds of the collapse of the deficit reduction talks had been planted from the very beginning by ''a fatal misunderstanding'' between the two parties about their goals. When the deficit reduction committee first met, Mr. Kyl warned of what he could not accept, defense cuts. Yet at the first meeting of payroll tax negotiators two weeks ago, he struck a more upbeat, more urgent tone.
''We have time to do it,'' he said of reaching a deal, addressing 20 House and Senate negotiators around a wide table on Capitol Hill, ''but not any time to waste.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Jon Kyl with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, left, who made Mr. Kyl his go-to intermediary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US CONGRESSIONAL SUPER COMMITTEE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INCOME TAX (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: JON KYL (93%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



354 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Tough Words From Iran As Sanctions Cut Deep

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Artin Afkhami contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Iran's top leaders displayed a public mix of bravado and defiance on Wednesday in the face of the West's tightened antinuclear sanctions, using the impending 33rd anniversary of the Islamic Revolution to denounce the United States, the European Union and Israel as colonialist bullies.
But beneath the bombast, strains on Iran's economy from the sanctions showed further signs of deepening, with the government looking for ways to avoid the use of dollars in international oil trade, new reports of problems importing food, and a Gallup poll that suggested a majority of Iranians were worried about financial pain from the penalties already imposed. 
Statements by Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the speaker of Parliament, Ali Larijani, who some believe could become the next president of Iran, all echoed themes of Iranian self-reliance and resentment toward the West in advance of the anniversary this Saturday of the 1979 revolution that toppled the shah.
Iran's Fars News Agency reported that Mr. Ahmadinejad, in a speech to an Islamic conference in Tehran, called the West's version of democracy ''the humiliation of mankind because it is only serving the interests of capitalists and Zionists in the name of the people.''
Fars quoted Mr. Larijani as saying Iran's enemies ''aim to weaken the revolutionary people and promote the spirit of their puppet rulers.'' Ayatollah Khamenei, in a speech to air force members, called Iran the model for the uprisings elsewhere in the Middle East and proof that ''the Islamic Revolution has flourished and is dynamically moving forward.''
Their statements did not address the latest pain from shortages, inflation and a plunging currency, which come less than four weeks before Iran's parliamentary election. Some of Iran's new problems appeared to reflect the impact of the latest sanctions leveled by the United States and Europe, which are aimed at Iran's financial system and oil industry, even before they take full effect later this year.
The semiofficial Mehr news agency reported, for example, that Iran is discussing with China a way to find a substitute for dollars as payment for Chinese purchases of crude oil from Iran, a major supplier. Reuters reported that Malaysian exports of palm oil, critical to Iran's food industry, had been halted because sellers were not getting paid. The development followed accounts that Iran had been unable to pay for rice supplies from India and that Ukrainian wheat exporters had halved their shipments to Iran because of payment problems.
Iranian leaders have sought to portray the sanctions as psychological warfare by the United States and European Union, and have exhorted Iran's 74 million people to show stoicism. In his first public address of the year, Ayatollah Khamenei said Friday that the country had a history of withstanding acute deprivations, notably the eight-year Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s, that were far worse.
But some Iranian historians say that the ayatollah's analogy is flawed and that the country was more cohesive in purpose then and had revolutionary zeal.
''What is different today is that you don't have the level of unity you had during the Iran-Iraq war, and the revolution had just taken place,'' said Alireza Nader, an Iran specialist at the Washington office of the RAND Corporation, a research group.
''Right now a lot of Iranians lack faith in their government,'' he said. ''This is their vulnerability.''
The Gallup poll suggested that many Iranians were fearful over the sanctions. It found that nearly two-thirds of Iranians thought the sanctions would hurt their livelihoods. The poll also found that almost half of Iranians said there were times in the past year when they lacked enough money to buy food their families needed -- triple the level from 2005. The survey, based on telephone interviews with 1,000 adults from Dec. 16 to Jan. 10, had a sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Mohammad Khazaee, Iran's ambassador to the United Nations, acknowledged that the sanctions were a problem. ''The good news is that we have learned very much how to manage with sanctions,'' he told a group of editors from The New York Times on Tuesday. ''But nobody can say that the sanctions are not hurting.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (79%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); AIR FORCES (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (61%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (89%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (74%); ALI LARIJANI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UKRAINE (79%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



355 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Profited in Quarter, Despite Hacking Scandal

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
Cable television dramas and movies helped raise News Corporation's revenues by 2 percent in the second quarter, offsetting the growing costs related to a phone hacking scandal at the company's British newspaper unit.
The company on Wednesday beat Wall Street's expectations, reporting $1.06 billion in net income, or 42 cents a share, in the three months that ended Dec. 31, compared with $642 million, or 24 cents a share, in the same period a year ago. Revenue grew slightly, to $8.98 billion, up from $8.76 billion in 2010.
News Corporation said an ongoing investigation into phone hacking and the closing of the News of the World tabloid had cost the company $87 million in the quarter, or 3 cents a share. 
Chase Carey, the company's president and chief operating officer, declined to forecast how much the hacking scandal, including legal settlements with victims, could cost News Corporation. ''We're not going to predict or target it. We're going to do what it takes to make things right,'' he said Wednesday on a conference call with analysts and reporters.
Mr. Carey said entertainment ''continues to drive overall company results.'' Leading the growth was cable network FX. Hit dramas like ''American Horror Story'' led to a 20 percent increase in prime-time viewers ages 18 to 49. Operating income at FX and News Corporation's other cable networks, including perennial performer Fox News, jumped 20 percent to $882 million.
Movies like ''Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked'' and ''The Descendants'' contributed to $393 million in operating income at the company's filmed entertainment unit, more than twice what it was in 2010.
That growth ''clearly validates our strategy to develop and distribute superior wide-ranging content,'' Rupert Murdoch, chief executive at News Corporation, said in a statement. He added: ''I am particularly pleased with the success of our business strategies in spite of the uncertain economic conditions that we continue to face.''
But profits at the business closest to Mr. Murdoch's heart continued to ebb. The company's publishing unit, which includes newspapers in Australia, Britain and the United States, saw a 43 percent decline in profit, due to a weak advertising market in Australia and the cost of closing the News of the World.
The declines in print publications were ''exacerbated by a very tough economy,'' Mr. Carey said. The exception was The Wall Street Journal, which performed well in the quarter, he said (the company does not break out revenue figures for individual newspapers).
Mr. Carey said Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, Barron's and the Dow Jones newswires, will expand its reach into financial services and other digital initiatives under the leadership of a new chief executive, Lex Fenwick, formerly of Bloomberg L.P., who was named last week.
Operating income at the Fox broadcast network jumped 25 percent to $189 million, largely because of a strong fall season anchored by Major League Baseball and shows like ''The X Factor'' and ''The New Girl.'' Mr. Carey's efforts at renegotiating steeper carriage fees with cable and satellite operators paid off with retransmission consent revenues up more than 100 percent from the previous quarter.
News Corporation released its quarterly results after the markets closed, with shares ending the day up 0.62 percent at $19.62.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''American Horror Story,'' with the actress Jessica Lange, on FX is a success for News Corporation, which reported a rise in revenue Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRASHANT GUPTA/FX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (92%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); WIRETAPPING (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (53%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (85%); DOW JONES & CO INC (84%); DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (60%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: CHASE CAREY (77%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



356 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Obama Advisers Raise Forecast for Job Creation

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Drawing on a string of improved economic data, advisers to President Obama have updated their forecasts in recent days and now project that the economy will create two million jobs this year if stimulus measures are extended, which could reduce the unemployment rate to about 8 percent by year's end.
Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, confirmed the revised projection for the economic figure that is the most important one to Mr. Obama's re-election prospects. 
Mr. Krueger said the forecast was updated because the projection that will be published in the president's annual budget, to be released on Monday, was already ''stale and out of date.''
The budget will project an average unemployment rate of 8.9 percent for 2012 and 8.6 percent for next year, based on economic conditions that prevailed in mid-November. But unemployment in January surprisingly dropped to 8.3 percent, for the fifth straight monthly decline, suggesting a downward trend that would have to reverse sharply to produce an annual average of 8.9 percent.
Since the initial forecast last November, Mr. Krueger said, ''we learned that the unemployment rate has fallen by an impressive 0.8 percentage point over the last six months and other job market indicators have improved.''
He added, ''Private sector forecasters have shaved about half a percentage point from their 2012 unemployment rate forecast in response to the improvement in the job market since we made our forecast.''
One such private forecaster, the chief economist at Moody's Analytics, Mark M. Zandi, said he now expected unemployment to be near 7.9 percent at the end of the year and 7.3 percent at the end of next year. And the co-founder of Macroeconomic Advisers, Chris P. Varvares, said his firm had reduced its forecast for the year's average to an 8.2 percent unemployment rate from 8.9 percent.
Mr. Krueger said the administration's new outlook depended on the passage of Mr. Obama's economic stimulus proposals, chiefly an extension through the year of a temporary payroll-tax cut and assistance for the long-term unemployed. Those measures expire at the end of the month, and negotiations to extend them have been at a near-impasse between Democrats and Republicans in Congress.
Private sector forecasters have said that ending the two percentage point reduction in payroll taxes and the emergency jobless aid could subtract about 1 percent from economic growth.
The administration forecast also depends on the country avoiding the sort of global headwinds that have stalled the recovery in each of the last two years, including another flare-up of the European debt crisis or war in the Middle East.
''If the president's job creation proposals are passed in full, and if we can avoid the types of shocks that slowed the recovery in early 2011, the unemployment rate could easily be below 8 percent a year from now,'' Mr. Krueger said.
The two million jobs that the administration will project for 2012 compares with a net addition of 2.2 million jobs in the last 12 months, and 3.7 million added in 23 months of net job growth. But, with more than eight million jobs lost since the recession began in December 2007, stronger growth is needed to restore employment to precrisis levels.
For the White House, the improved forecast since November recalls the Obama economic team's opposite experience four years ago -- a miscalculation then that has haunted the administration politically ever since. When Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, his advisers did not update the projections they made the previous November -- when few economists knew how severe the recession actually was becoming.
The administration said then that unemployment would peak at 8 percent if Congress passed Mr. Obama's two-year stimulus package. Congress did, but -- as Republicans often recall -- unemployment peaked at 10 percent and has inched down slowly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, said an earlier job forecast was ''out of date.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); TAX LAW (65%); EURO CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



357 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Queens Wonders, Does One Borough Need Two Convention Halls?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The 250 muffler shops, tire installers and other grease-stained businesses that make up the tumbledown quarter of Queens known as Willets Point have long known that they could be wiped out to make way for a gleaming new convention center, New York City's first outside Manhattan.
In December, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg broke ground for sewer mains and storm drains for Willets Point to open the way for the neighborhood's transformation, the city's Web site trumpeted a convention center, citing it as helping to create ''New York's next great neighborhood.''
But a month ago, the businesses learned to their surprise and bewilderment that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was proposing another, far grander convention center -- at more than three million square feet, it would be the nation's largest -- as part of a mammoth gambling hall that would rise at the Aqueduct racetrack, six miles to the south. 
Does Queens, they wondered, need two convention centers?
Jake Bono of Bono Sawdust Supply, which for almost 80 years has sold sawdust to circuses and horse farms, said that if the Aqueduct convention center was built, ''that point-blank means there's not even a need for a convention center at Willets Point.''
As Mr. Bono sees it, local politicians have been staging a ''charade,'' wielding a convention center at Willets Point as a politically palatable enticement to justify the destruction of what is, to some eyes, an unsightly warren of car-repair shops that now greets fans patronizing the nearby Citi Field.
The city has always spoken of a convention center as part of a retail, hotel, office and apartment complex that would be close to two highways, an airport, a bay and train and subway connections. But Mr. Bono said he believed the convention center had always been the city's ''main selling point.''
Queens officials have also regarded the city's redevelopment plan as intimately intertwined with a convention center. Helen M. Marshall, the borough president, was reportedly taken aback when she heard of the governor's Aqueduct proposal.
''What happened to Willets Point?'' was the way Dan Andrews, her spokesman, described her reaction. ''Oh my God, there's going to be two!''
He said Ms. Marshall had since embraced the idea that there could indeed be two convention centers, the one at Aqueduct and a smaller space of fewer than 400,000 square feet at Willets Point for smaller trade shows and for local and regional conferences of, say, the Queens medical and dental societies. Events at such a center may be too big to fit into a hotel ballroom but not big enough for the proposed Aqueduct center. And the Queens Chamber of Commerce emphasizes that ''an exhibition hall or conference center'' was only a single feature in the overall plan.
''Willets Point right now looks like something in a third-world nation, and if we're going to be able to maximize economic opportunities it's going to require full redevelopment,'' said Jack Friedman, the chamber's executive director.
The city's Economic Development Corporation, which is spearheading the Willets Point overhaul, did not respond directly to questions about the governor's Aqueduct proposal. Despite that proposal, Jennifer Friedberg, a spokeswoman for the corporation, said, ''our plans have not changed.''
City officials do, however, seem to be less wedded to the convention center as part of a reborn Willets Point. For example, officials take pains to point out that any convention center is years away from being built and is not included in the first phase of the project, which covers 20 of the roughly 61 acres. That phase imagines 400 apartments, 35 percent of which will be for people of limited income, a hotel and 680,000 square feet of retail space.
The corporation is poring over proposals for the first phase from a half-dozen developers and should select a winner in coming weeks. It is also close to acquiring 90 percent of the needed land and is prepared to condemn the rest through eminent domain.
Both Mr. Cuomo's push for an enormous convention center in southern Queens and the convention center plan for Willets Point come at a time when the centers are losing their appeal.
Heywood Sanders, a professor of public administration at the University of Texas at San Antonio who is writing a book on convention centers, said attendance had been declining for more than a decade, and started to drop even before the current economic downturn. He said the trend was a result of tighter spending by businesses and the Internet's ability to let clients examine new products and communicate with far-flung peers.
Attendance at McCormick Place in Chicago, the nation's largest center at more than two million square feet, plummeted from three million in 2001 to two million in 2010. The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan recorded 1.92 million attendees in 1990, but 633,000 in 2009, according to official figures.
Thus, building two centers in Queens, or even one, ''makes no sense whatsoever,'' Professor Sanders said.
''You're talking about building more space in a market that's oversupplied,'' he continued.
Alfredo Franza, vice president of United Steel Products in Willets Point, which since 1977 has made rolling security doors and other iron works for clients including Yankee Stadium, said he was surprised to learn about the plans for two convention centers. ''I started laughing,'' he said. ''It's like the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing.''
Beyond the convention center, there are a number of other issues roiling the debate. Willets Point United, an association of 22 businesses that oppose the city's redevelopment plan, says the city, to support its case for condemnation, keeps calling the area blighted when instead it is a vibrant industrial area that employs about 2,000 people.
Its neglected appearance, Mr. Bono said, is a result of the city's failure to put in sewer lines and storm sewers and repave the streets. Mr. Bono said the city had been unfairly picturing the neighborhood as a contaminated brownfield when the association's testers had found no evidence of dangerous pollution.
''Is this area really blighted, or is it an industrial area that had been deprived of essential municipal services?'' said Michael Rikon, the lawyer for Willets Point United, who is fighting condemnation in court.
Mr. Bono concedes that many business owners are surrendering to eminent domain offers, but only because they see no chance of beating the Bloomberg administration and would rather not be trapped in a limbo that makes it difficult to invest in their businesses.
''You want to be a civil rights crusader,'' he said, ''and spend your life fighting City Hall?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Willets Point, Queens, the focus of a city plan that includes a convention hall. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo wants another nearby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (77%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (76%); MAYORS (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (71%); GAMING (68%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (72%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



358 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Israel Split on Speed Of Iran Threat

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Amid mounting tensions over whether Israel will carry out a military strike against Iran's nuclear program, the United States and Israel remain at odds over a fundamental question: whether Iran's crucial nuclear facilities are about to become impregnable.
Israel's defense minister, Ehud Barak, coined the phrase ''zone of immunity'' to define the circumstances under which Israel would judge it could no longer hold off from an attack because Iran's effort to produce a bomb would be invulnerable to any strike. But judging when that moment will arrive has set off an intense debate with the Obama administration, whose officials counter that there are other ways to make Iran vulnerable.
Senior Israeli officials, including the foreign minister and leader of the Mossad, have traveled to Washington in recent weeks to make the case that this point is fast approaching. American officials have made reciprocal visits to Jerusalem, arguing that Israel and the West have more time and should allow sanctions and covert actions to deter Iran's plans.
The Americans have also used the discussions to test their belief, based on a series of public statements by Israeli officials, that an Israeli strike against Iran could come as early as spring, according to an official familiar with the discussions. 
President Obama tried to defuse arguments for military action in a telephone call last month with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, the substance of which was confirmed by an Obama administration official who spoke only on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to describe the conversation. While the two men have had an often contentious relationship over Middle East diplomacy, American officials emerged from that exchange persuaded that Mr. Netanyahu was willing to give economic sanctions and other steps time to work.
The difference of opinion over Iran's nuclear ''immunity'' is critical because it plays into not just the timing -- or bluffing -- about a possible military strike, but the calculations about how deeply and quickly sanctions against Iran must bite. If the Israeli argument is right, the question of how fast the Iranians can assemble a weapon becomes less important than whether there is any way to stop them.
'' 'Zone of immunity' is an ill-defined term,'' said a senior Obama administration official, expressing frustration that the Israelis are looking at the problem too narrowly, given the many kinds of pressure being placed on Tehran and the increasing evidence that far tougher sanctions are having an effect.
The Israelis have zeroed in on Iran's plan to put much of its uranium enrichment near Qum in an underground facility beneath so many layers of granite that even the Pentagon acknowledges it would be out of the reach of its best bunker-busting bombs. Once enrichment activities are under way at Qum, the Israelis argue, Iran could throw out United Nations inspectors and produce bomb-grade fuel without fear the facility would be destroyed.
At its core, the official said, the argument the Israelis make is that once the Iranians get an ''impregnable breakout capability'' -- that is, a place that is protected from a military strike -- ''it makes no difference whether it will take Iran six months or a year or five years'' to fabricate a nuclear weapon, he said.
The Americans have a very different view, according to a second senior official who has discussed the concept with Israelis. He said ''there are many other options'' to slow Iran's march to a completed weapon, like shutting off Iran's oil revenues, taking out facilities that supply centrifuge parts or singling out installations where the Iranians would turn the fuel into a weapon.
Administration officials cite this more complex picture in pressing the Israelis to give the latest sanctions a chance to inflict enough pain on the Iranian leadership to force it back to the negotiating table, or to make the decision that the nuclear program is not worth the cost.
Iran's currency has plunged, they note; its oil is piling up in storage tanks because it cannot find buyers, and there is growing evidence of fissures among the country's leadership.
After a period of doubt about Israel's intentions at the end of last year, administration officials said the two sides were now communicating better. Mr. Obama, they said, reflected that when he said in an interview on Sunday with NBC News, ''I don't think that Israel has made a decision on what they need to do.''
This is not the first time that the Israelis have invented a phrase that suggests a hard deadline before an attack. At the end of the Bush administration, they said they could not allow Iran to go past ''the point of no return.'' That phrase was also ill-defined, but seemed to suggest that once Iran had the know-how and the basic materials to make a bomb, it would be inevitable.
While nuclear experts believe Iran now has enough uranium to fuel four or more weapons, it would have to enrich it to bomb-grade levels, which would take months. Beyond that, Iran would have to produce a warhead that could fit atop an Iranian missile -- a process that could take one to three years, most experts say.
Still, Mr. Barak's theory of ''immunity'' has gained a lot of attention in recent weeks, complicating a debate charged with bellicose language -- in Israel and Iran and among Republicans on the presidential campaign trail, where Mitt Romney and other candidates have pledged Israel full support in any military confrontation with Iran.
Disputes between the United States and Israel are inevitable, according to experts, given the radically different stakes of a nuclear Iran for a distant superpower and for a neighbor whose very existence the leaders in Tehran have pledged to eradicate.
''No end of consultations can remove that asymmetry,'' said Martin S. Indyk, a former ambassador to Israel and director of the Foreign Policy Program at the Brookings Institution.
Next month, Mr. Netanyahu is scheduled to visit Washington to address the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a powerful pro-Israeli lobbying group, to whom he and other Israeli leaders have regularly spoken about Iran's ''existential threat.'' The White House has not yet announced whether Mr. Netanyahu will meet with Mr. Obama, though officials say it is likely.
Officials said that for all the friction between the United States and Israel over issues like Jewish settlements in the West Bank, it had not spilled over into the dialogue over Iran, in part because Mr. Obama has ordered it ''walled off'' from politics.
Administration officials also noted a distinction in the tone of Mr. Barak and Mr. Netanyahu, who does not publicly favor the phrase ''zone of immunity.'' This week, an American official noted, Mr. Netanyahu declared that on the topic of Iran, officials should just ''shut up.''
''I think that's good advice,'' the American official said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama tried to defuse arguments for military action in a call with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, above. The two leaders may meet in Washington next month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 AMIR COHEN/REUTERS) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); POWER PLANTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (78%); EHUD BARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



359 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Security Bills Bruised by Lingering Fight

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

 BODY:
The ghosts of two doomed antipiracy bills hang over a new and unrelated issue on Capitol Hill: proposed legislation to help secure the nation's nuclear plants, water systems and other essential infrastructure from hackers and terrorists.
In both houses of Congress, legislation is gaining steam that would authorize the federal government to regulate the security of privately owned critical infrastructure, much of which is controlled by Internet-connected systems and susceptible to being hacked. The legislation is already riven by competing interests and fears.
National security interests want the government to be able to collect and analyze information from private companies about how they protect themselves from attack. Those companies are skittish about government regulation generally. Civil liberties advocates warn against excessive information-gathering by the state in the name of computer security. 
And members of Congress are wary of taking any steps that could infuriate the Internet lobby, which scored a surprise victory against would-be antipiracy laws last month.
Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, who recently introduced a computer security bill, acknowledged that Capitol Hill had learned some lessons about the new political muscle of technology companies and their users.
''One of the things we learned is that we have to raise the debate such that no one believes things are being done behind closed doors,'' Mr. Lungren said in a phone interview.
A Congressional aide who did not want to be named because he was not authorized to speak to the media, put the lessons of the antipiracy efforts more bluntly. Some members, the aide said, ''were kind of scarred by that experience and don't want to go down any road where they are viewed as regulating the Internet.''
In fact, the latest network security bills do not regulate the Internet, and it is not clear whether they will gain popular traction, either for or against.
The Senate computer security bill is expected to be introduced as early as Friday by Joseph I. Lieberman, Susan M. Collins and John D. Rockefeller IV. It would give the Department of Homeland Security regulatory authority over those essential services companies where an attack could jeopardize human life or national security. It would compel critical infrastructure companies and government agencies to share information about threats and breaches, and would give the government power to impose sanctions on companies that run afoul of the law.
Details of the bill are still being negotiated. A hearing on it is scheduled for next week.
The House version of the bill, which Mr. Lungren proposed in December and is expected to come before a full committee in coming weeks, allows Homeland Security to lay out performance standards on security, but does not give it explicit powers to regulate.
Kevin Richards, vice president for government affairs at TechAmerica, a trade group that represents large government contractors like Lockheed Martin, said its members were wary of the government's telling them what to do. ''When it comes to the tech community and Capitol Hill, we look at two cardinal rules,'' Mr. Richards said. ''First is, 'Do no harm.' Second is, 'Beware unintended consequences.' ''
The government, he suggested, would do better to focus its energies on improving its own security. ''It's important for our community to remain flexible and nimble in how we respond to the evolving cyberthreat,'' he said. ''The government should lead by example when it comes to securing its network.''
Neither the private sector nor government agencies have been immune to attacks. Large government contractors like Lockheed Martin and Booz Allen Hamilton have suffered from embarrassing intrusions in recent months, along with the security agency RSA and even the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Security researchers have repeatedly pointed to gaping holes in the way industrial systems are protected, including those that handle power grids and oil rigs. The vulnerabilities are all the more worrisome as more and more of these systems are connected to the Internet. Passwords can be weak. Data can be transmitted without encryption. Hackers can remotely turn machines on and off, or tweak critical processes by adjusting valves.
''Failure to properly control or restrict access to these elements can lead to catastrophic accidents,'' Paul Ferguson, a researcher with TrendMicro, a security firm, concluded recently in a blog post on his company's site.
The best-known computer attack on an industrial system used a computer worm called Stuxnet, and appears to have been aimed at Iran's nuclear arms program. Some evidence indicates that it was a joint project of the United States and Israel.
James A. Lewis of the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies, a research organization, worried that industry lobbying would produce a watered-down law that would do little to deter attacks.
''The ideology of the market that dominates American politics, that government 'is the problem,' puts us at a disadvantage, because it's certainly not true for defense,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''A weak bill guarantees a hit.''
The Obama administration has been nudging Congress to act on digital security, an issue that seems to garner rare bipartisan energy.
James R. Clapper, director of national intelligence, told a rare open hearing of the Senate Intelligence Committee last week that ''market incentives'' had kept both the private and public sector from being able to keep up with increasingly sophisticated online attackers. ''Cyberthreats pose a critical national and economic security concern,'' he said in testimony.
One of the sticking points in any security legislation is likely to be who can look at the information that private industry reveals about its own vulnerabilities and breaches. The intelligence community is keen to have access to it. Others are keen to keep it out of their reach.
One civil liberties group in Washington warned that companies and their customers might become worked up if they discovered that intelligence agencies were trying to extract as much information as possible in the name of security.
''I think there is a risk in moving too fast to authorize sharing of so much information that it puts privacy at risk and upsets a lot of the same people who spoke out'' against the antipiracy legislation, said Gregory T. Nojeim, senior counsel at the Center for Democracy and Technology, an advocacy group that is supported by the technology industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Analysts in the government's cyberdefense lab in Idaho Falls, Idaho, which is intended to protect the nation's infrastructure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK J. TERRILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (50%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: DANIEL E LUNGREN (78%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



360 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: House Vote Moves Washington State Closer to Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- Washington was poised Wednesday to become the seventh state to allow same-sex couples to marry after the State House gave final passage to such a bill. Gov. Christine Gregoire promised to sign it.
The governor is expected to do just that as soon as next week, but it is not likely to take immediate effect. Under state law, if opponents gather 120,000 signatures, the measure will be put to a public referendum before it can be enacted. 
The Washington vote came just a day after a court ruling in California that struck down that state's ban on same-sex marriage, and it precedes several other votes expected across the country that could keep the issue in the spotlight throughout this election year. Some will take place in legislative chambers, including in Maryland and New Hampshire, and some at the ballot box, including in Minnesota, North Carolina and, very likely, a referendum here in Washington on the bill the Legislature just passed by a vote of 55 to 43.
Advocates on both sides said Wednesday that, over the long term, their side would prevail, regardless of the conflicting developments that have defined the issue for several years.
Washington embodies the conflicts. It is among more than 30 states that have passed laws defining marriage as being between a man and a woman, but it has steadily expanded rights for gay couples since 2006, the year it approved a wide-ranging gay rights bill. In 2007, it approved rights for domestic partners. In 2009 it passed a so-called everything-but-marriage bill.
Full marriage rights began speeding toward approval last month, when Ms. Gregoire announced that she would file the bill to make same-sex marriage legal.
The governor, a Democrat now in her second and final term, had said that she did not believe that the state was ready for same-sex marriage and that churches should play a decisive role on the issue. Ms. Gregoire's bill, modeled after one approved by New York in June, allows churches and religious groups to choose not to perform same-sex marriages and to deny same-sex couples access to their facilities for weddings.
Recent debate here has been relatively measured. The Senate passed the bill easily last month, 28 to 21.
''We very deliberately undertook an incremental approach,'' said Representative Jamie Pedersen, the bill's prime sponsor in the House. ''We believe we've benefited from taking steps only when we're likely to be successful.''
The issue may be more contentious elsewhere. In North Carolina, voters will decide in May on a constitutional amendment defining marriage as between a man and a woman. Minnesota will vote on a similar measure in November. Austin R. Nimocks, a lawyer who argues against same-sex marriage for the Alliance Defense Fund, noted that while some polls showed increasing support for gay marriage, voters had never approved it at the polls. In 31 statewide votes, voters have consistently defined marriage as between a man and a woman, he said.
''I don't see a shift in momentum,'' Mr. Nimocks said. ''You can use all the polls you want. You can say anything you want to about civil unions or domestic partnerships, but when it comes to marriage, the record is clear.''
Supporters of same-sex marriage say the Washington vote, including the speed with which it has moved through the Legislature this year, is evidence of growing acceptance.
Michael Cole-Schwartz, a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign, said that over time, particularly in states that sanction gay unions in some form, supporters are able to show that ''no one else's relationship is harmed but that these particular families end up more secure.''
But Mr. Cole-Schwartz and others acknowledged that the number of states likely to pass same-sex marriage bills anytime soon was small. In Maryland, the Senate has approved same-sex marriage, but it faces a tougher fight in the House, including among some moderate black Democrats. Supporters are lobbying those lawmakers and enlisting help. The Rev. Al Sharpton has released a video in which he says: ''If committed gay and lesbian couples want to marry, that is their business. None of us should stand in their way.''
New Jersey lawmakers could approve a bill as early as next week, but Gov. Chris Christie has said he would veto the measure.
In New Hampshire, Republicans are leading an effort to repeal gay marriage after the Legislature approved it in 2009. In Maine, a ballot measure will give voters the chance to approve same-sex marriage. It would be the first time that happened.
Washington, which would become the only state west of Iowa to allow same-sex marriages, is also expected to see the issue on the ballot this fall. In 2009, the state voted 53 to 47 to uphold its ''everything but marriage'' law, a vote supporters say is the only statewide vote nationwide that upheld gay unions.
Some lawmakers here have been on both sides of the issue. In 1998, Senator Jim Kastama, a moderate Democrat, voted in favor of the bill preventing same-sex marriage. On Wednesday, he planned to vote for same-sex marriage.
''I have a very good marriage of 17, 18 years,'' Mr. Kastama said. ''All the strength that I get from that, how can I deny someone else that?''
Mr. Kastama said he had changed his position after a ''tremendous amount of introspection,'' but he also cited economics. He said he believed marriage made communities financially and socially stronger, regardless of whether they were same-sex or between a man and a woman. The state has a budget deficit of about $1.5 billion.
''We have to become far more reliant on each other, and the government is not always going to be there,'' Mr. Kastama said. ''I think we all do better in committed relationships.''
Online Correction: February 8, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A previous version of this article misstated the year Washington state approved domestic parterships. It was 2007, not 2006.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Christine Gregoire, in glasses, with Senators Ed Murray and Lisa Brown, watched the House debate on Wednesday.
 Representative Matt Shea spoke about a proposed amendment to a gay marriage measure in Olympia, Wash., on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARRIAGE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); COHABITATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROVALS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (71%); RELIGION (67%); CHURCH & STATE (67%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



361 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Barneys, Debt-Laden, Is Weighing Restructuring

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
Barneys New York, one of New York's temples of high fashion, has hired restructuring advisers to help the retailer deal with $200 million in debt maturing this fall, people briefed on the matter said Wednesday.
The company has long been known as one of the world's top purveyors of fashion, having introduced Americans to Giorgio Armani more than three decades ago. But it has labored for years to emerge from a hefty debt load taken on in a 2007 leveraged buyout.
Barneys hired the law firm Kirkland & Ellis, one of the top law firms for restructuring work, in recent weeks, said the people, who were not authorized to speak publicly. Kirkland joins a coterie that includes longtime Barneys adviser Perella Weinberg Partners and the consulting firm AlixPartners. 
The hiring of these advisers does not necessarily presage any sort of bankruptcy filing, since the company may be able to reach agreements with its small group of lenders and debtholders. They include Citigroup, Wells Fargo and the investment firms Perry Capital and Ronald W. Burkle's Yucaipa Companies, these people said.
''Barneys New York is actively engaged in discussions with the company's small group of lenders to improve its balance sheet and further position Barneys New York for sustainable, long-term growth and success,'' a company representative said in a statement.
''We are focused on resolving this matter as expeditiously as possible, and it will remain business as usual at Barneys New York.''
Barneys executives are optimistic, in part, because of improving sales figures. The company representative said that the retailer's sales rose 18 percent in December, and that the company's full-year earnings rose 40 percent over 2010.
Barneys has shaken up its executive lineup in recent years, including the hiring of a former Gucci executive, Mark Lee, in 2010 after two years without a chief.
It was founded as a discount menswear shop in 1923 by Barney Pressman, who raised the money by selling his wife's engagement ring. Mr. Pressman's son, Fred, built the company into a mecca for fashion, introducing scores of high-end designers - from Prada to Proenza Schouler - to the American public.
The company has run into hard times before. It filed for bankruptcy in 1996, emerging from court protection three years later.
The Pressman family sold Barneys to the Jones Apparel Group in 2004. Three years later, Jones sold it to Istithmar, a Dubai-based private equity firm, for about $942.3 million, a deal that added about $500 million in debt.
That burden has hurt Barneys, as had the global recession that sapped demand for luxury goods like $1,700 shirt-dresses. It has also had to contend with a proliferation of competitors: Beyond Neiman Marcus and Saks, the company's rivals include online retailers like Net-a-Porter and the discounter Gilt Groupe.
Barneys has a $200 million credit line that matures in September, with about $90 million of that already drawn down, according to the people briefed on the matter. Barneys is hoping to refinance that facility, as well as ease the terms of other debt.
Istithmar has supported the retailer and sought to keep it out of bankruptcy, including by investing $20 million in the company in 2010.
News of Kirkland & Ellis's hiring was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal.
Peter Lattman contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (75%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

COMPANY: KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); YUCAIPA COS LLC (69%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); JONES GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); JNY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); RON BURKLE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



362 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SCENE CITY; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Showing Their Colors

BYLINE: By BOB MORRIS

 BODY:
NEWT GINGRICH has Sheldon Adelson. The Tea Party has the Koch brothers. Mitt Romney has his friends at Bain Capital. But only President Obama has Anna Wintour.
On Tuesday night, Ms. Wintour, the Vogue editor, gathered 20 American designers at the Theory store in the meatpacking district. They were part of a group of 23 who designed T-shirts, tote bags and other accessories to support Runway to Win, as part of the Obama re-election campaign.
''The runway is no longer just a runway, it's now a force for change in politics,'' said Ms. Wintour, whose Prada outfit was graced with a floral scarf that Thakoon Panichgul had designed for the event. 
New York Fashion Week was only two days away, but when Anna calls, who would dare disobey?
''Between her and Obama, I had to say yes,'' said Andrew Rosen, Theory's owner, as he watched his loftlike store on Gansevoort Street ransacked by 500 or so shoppers who had paid $250 for the privilege of throwing down drinks and credit cards. The Obama items sold for $45 to $95 each.
''Occupy Theory!'' yelled Leslie Stevens, a fashion publicist.
''Shop till you drop,'' added Aerin Lauder, the beauty entrepreneur.
Diane Von Furstenberg, whose show is Sunday, could not refuse the call. But she could not stay long, either. She rushed out as soon as the 10-minute presentation (in which Jim Messina, the president's campaign manager, declared himself unfashionable) was over, holding an American flag tote bag that she designed and a Tracy Reese sweatshirt.
Lazaro Hernandez of Proenza Schouler wore the black T-shirt he created with a cartoonlike wave with ''2012'' printed on it.
''Making a T-shirt wasn't so hard, but I have to get back to my studio,'' he said, with something like panic in his voice.
Tory Burch, another distracted designer with a runway show coming up Tuesday, sounded a note of patriotism as shoppers eyed her red, white and blue $75 tote bags. ''I think you should be supportive of politics regardless of your affiliations,'' she said.
Olivier Theyskens was there, too -- not as a participating designer (he's Belgian), but as a shopper. ''I'm not an American, but I still want to be supportive,'' he said.
Well, as everyone knows in these harsh economic times, there's nothing more patriotic than shopping. But let's face it. All shopping events are not created equal, and they're certainly not immune to political body checking.
Earlier, The Wall Street Journal ran an article that quoted Republicans saying that the sale may have violated campaign-finance rules. The Republican National Committee also released a YouTube commercial deriding the ''celebrity-filled fashion show'' as ''ritzy'' at a time when ''12 million Americans remain out of work.''
Tuesday's shoppers brushed off the criticisms with the hauteur of fashion critics underwhelmed by a collection.
''The president is only doing what all the candidates are doing,'' said Russell Simmons, who outfitted the waiters in Obama polo shirts.
Scarlett Johansson, Ms. Wintour's co-host, who looked sexy in a black Stella McCartney dress, wasn't quite so politic when it came to Republican critics.
''They are so totally unfashionable,'' she sniped.
Take that, Mr. Sweater Vest!

CORRECTION-DATE: February 16, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Thursday with the Scene City column misidentified a model at the Runway to Win fund-raising event. She is Chanel Iman, not the model known solely as Iman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POSE: The models Iman, left, and Karlie Kloss at a fund-raising event for Runway to Win, an initiative of major designers who support President Obama's re-election campaign, in the meatpacking district.
2012: At left, Anna Wintour, Lazaro Hernandez, Diane Von Furstenberg, Scarlett Johansson and Russell Simmons. Hamish Bowles, above, examining merchandise.
RALLY: Clockwise from left, items sold on Mr. Obama's behalf include clothing designed by Joseph Altuzarra, top left
Alexander Wang, top right
 and Prabal Gurung, below right, with the model Joan Smalls peering over his shoulder. Scarlett Johansson was one of the event's hosts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (74%); SHELDON G ADELSON (73%); SCARLETT JOHANSSON (68%); JIM MESSINA (58%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012



363 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed by 3 Victories, Santorum Campaign Sets Ambitious New Goals

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta.

 BODY:
With a new head of steam from his three electoral victories on Tuesday night, Rick Santorum is daring to think what might have been unthinkable just a week ago and remains improbable -- that he can dispatch Newt Gingrich and maybe even Mitt Romney to become the Republican standard-bearer against President Obama in the fall.
Mr. Santorum's ragtag operation, run on a shoestring budget, is in the midst of a transformation. He had been picking and choosing his states, while ignoring some, like Nevada and to some extent Florida, where he saw little opportunity.
Now, with more victories under his belt than any other candidate, he is organizing a nationwide campaign with ambitious goals. He is preparing to go head-to-head against Mr. Romney in Mr. Romney's home state, Michigan, which votes Feb. 28. And aides said he was likely to challenge Mr. Gingrich on Super Tuesday, March 6, on Mr. Gingrich's home turf, Georgia. 
He also plans an incursion into Texas, a state that Mr. Gingrich has been banking on to revive his own hopes of winning the nomination.
''We don't intend to be a regional player,'' said John Brabender, a senior Santorum adviser, in a dig at Mr. Gingrich, who is focusing his strategy on capturing Southern states.
For the first time in this campaign, Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, enjoyed an election-night victory dance on Tuesday after he won Missouri and Minnesota and just before he also won Colorado, the biggest surprise of the night. Although he prevailed in the Iowa caucuses Jan. 3, the results were in doubt for two weeks, denying him that election night winner's moment that can help build momentum.
Aides said that as word of his victories came down Tuesday night, money began rolling in at a rate three times faster than after the Iowa caucuses.
Mr. Santorum will face new hurdles now that he suddenly seems to be a force, including more direct fire from the Romney and Gingrich camps and more scrutiny from the news media. His personal favorability numbers have remained high throughout the campaign largely because his rivals have ignored him.
''I know what's coming next,'' Mr. Santorum wrote to potential donors in a fund-raising e-mail message on Wednesday. ''I saw what Mitt Romney and his team did to Newt Gingrich after he won South Carolina,'' tarring him with millions of dollars of negative advertising.
''They're going to come after us now,'' Mr. Santorum warned.
Sure enough, Mr. Romney began attacking Mr. Santorum directly on Wednesday, saying at a stop in Georgia, ''During Senator Santorum's time in Washington, the government grew by 80 percent and he voted to raise the debt ceiling five times.''
Mr. Santorum accused Mr. Romney of being a ''mushy moderate'' and said he ''doesn't have a clear conservative vision for America.''
The essence of Mr. Santorum's message is that he is the true conservative. It is intended to appeal to the ideologically driven base of the Republican Party that is turning out in the primaries, but it has the advantage of being in sync with Mr. Santorum's values and much, though not all, of his record; he has supported some big-spending measures, bringing $1 billion in earmarks to Pennsylvania during his 12 years in the Senate, for example.
Aides said Mr. Santorum would build on his advantages. He has used the recent debates, with their winnowed field and more time to answer questions, to criticize Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich on three issues that define the race for many conservative voters: health care mandates, cap and trade legislation and economic bailouts.
Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich have supported them at one time or another and Mr. Santorum has opposed them.
''We're the only ones who can own those issues,'' Mr. Brabender said.
Mr. Santorum has also been sustained through this tortoise-hare race by support from evangelical voters and some in the Tea Party movement. They may have been fickle, flitting between Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich, and even in some cases, like in Florida, to Mr. Romney, but Mr. Santorum's campaign believes they are part of his natural constituency and will rally to his campaign now that he is winning.
''They've been in the trenches with Rick before on the major social issues facing the nation,'' said Hogan Gidley, Mr. Santorum's spokesman.
Many of the Tea Party groups have not activated their vast internal networks because they have been split among the candidates. But that may be changing.
''I think the reason Santorum didn't get more votes before was because of the belief that he couldn't win,'' said Richard Disney, an organizer for the Tea Party in Reno, Nev. But, Mr. Disney said, he voted for Mr. Santorum mainly because ''he was the only candidate I could stomach,'' and he expects other Tea Party members are coming to the same conclusion.
Before the vote in South Carolina in January, a group of religious and conservative leaders met in Texas and decided to rally around Mr. Santorum's candidacy to try to stop Mr. Romney. But Mr. Gingrich's decisive victory in South Carolina suggested that evangelical voters were not taking their cues from the leaders.
Gary L. Bauer, president of American Values, who attended that Texas meeting and backs Mr. Santorum, said Wednesday that one reason the leaders' influence was not felt was that ''these voters do not vote in lock step.'' He also said many of the leaders were not from South Carolina and they would be more effective in states that vote later as they circulate newsletters, e-mails and video clips of Mr. Santorum's debate highlights.
''All that has been going on and it will increase after last night,'' Mr. Bauer said.
He also pointed to what he saw as the fortunate emergence in recent days on the national scene of several issues of intense social importance -- abortion, contraception and same-sex marriage -- just as Minnesota, Missouri and Colorado, with their strongholds of conservative voters, were preparing to go to the polls.
''The conventional wisdom is that it's always the economy, and of course it is for most Americans,'' Mr. Bauer said. ''But no one is able to call a 'time out' on these values issues, and I wouldn't be surprised if in part that helped stimulate voters to turn out for Senator Santorum.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 2012

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Thursday with an article about the ambitious new goals set by the Rick Santorum campaign after his recent electoral victories misstated the location where one of his volunteers was preparing for a rally. The volunteer was in Plano, Tex., not McKinney, Tex.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A volunteer in McKinney, Tex., on Wednesday prepared for a rally for Rick Santorum in Plano. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRANDON THIBODEAUX FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (76%); DEBT CEILING (71%); FUNDRAISING (69%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



364 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; womens-fashion

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Runway in Review

BYLINE: ALISON S. COHN


HIGHLIGHT: The critics weigh in on Wednesday's shows in New York. 

 BODY:
10 Crosby
Designer: Derek Lam
Date: Wednesday, Feb. 8
Photos: slide show

        
"Lam might've had 'Home Alone' in mind, but his customers will want to show off these casual-cool clothes in public." (Style.com)
        
"Derek Lam's new venture, 10 Crosby, has fulfilled its cool-girl status for Fall '12 ... show[ing] plenty of bold prints, sharp tailoring, and just the right amount of femininity to please every downtown girl." (FabSugar)
        
"While the individual pieces stand alone as swoon-worthy (plaid pants, come to mama!), we find ourselves wishing to recreate so many of these full looks for ourselves." (Refinery 29)
        
"It was all true to the crisp American look Lam is known for - sportswear separates that are prime for layering, whether under a tailored trench or a fox fur vest." (WWD)

Organic by John Patrick
Designer: John Patrick
Date: Wednesday, Feb. 8, 348 West 36th Street
Photos: slide show

        
"Minimalist styles in interesting patterns and textures." (The Cut)
        
"He's always shown lots of great sporty items at Organic, but this season John Patrick said he 'wanted to elevate our basics to the next level.' He did it beautifully, with lots of rich fabrics and fresh shapes." (WWD)
        
"Leather ... worked to counter the rosy-cheeked sweetness of Patrick's slouchy layered looks with their half-tucked shirttails. But it also served to upgrade the staple-driven collection from casual to luxury status." (Style.com)
        
"'Certain things can make you really happy - a good vanilla cupcake is one. A fun pair of jeans rolled up to the knee is another,' John Patrick says. To spread that happiness, the designer has collaborated with Raleigh Denim on some terrific looking raw jeans." (fashionologie)
Rachel Comey
Designer: Rachel Comey
Date: Wednesday, Feb. 8, Pier 59 Studios, West Side Highway at 18th Street
Photos: slide show

        
"Rachel Comey got the schedule started, with a largely monochrome collection - peppered with the odd burst of orange." (Vogue.com UK)
        
"A crisp collection of modern, tailored silhouettes with a '50s and '60s-inspired spin." (The Thread)
        
"Comey girls, take a deep breath: the charmingly off-kilter quality that characterizes the designer's work is still in evidence, but a new straightforwardness lent a maturity to the new collection." (Style.com)
Steven Alan
Designer: Steven Alan
Date: Wednesday, Feb. 8
Photos: slide show

        
"The unemployment rate may be falling, but to judge from Steven Alan's presentation ... we're heading into a depression. Alan's Fall collections for both men and women riffed on '30s-era aesthetics, with an emphasis on worn tailoring and a gray- and sepia-toned palette straight out of Dorothea Lange." (Style.com)
        
"One of the reasons we keep restocking our closets with his boyfriend shirts and smart dresses is because they feel like they were made to be lived in. That vibe came across at today's presentation." (Racked National)
        
"A nice dose of folk was worked into the collection's classic prepster mix: wooden buttons, blanket wools, leather riding belts, and perky little felt fedoras." (fashionologie)

        
Scorecard | Women's Spring Fashion 2009
        
Now Collaborating | Organic by John Patrick and Raleigh Denim
        
Spring Secrets | Finding the Season's Staples
        
Runway in Review
        
Runway in Review

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); FABRICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) 10 Crosby; Organic by John Patrick; rachel comey; Runway In Review; steven alan; New York Fashion Week; Women's Fashion

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



365 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Mean-Spirited, Bad Economics

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Punishing the long-term unemployed by refusing to extend benefits is bad economics and cruel social policy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The principle behind unemployment insurance is simple. Since the 1930s, employers have paid insurance premiums (in the form of payroll taxes, levied on wages) to the government. If people are laid off through no fault of their own, they can claim this insurance - much the way you file a claim on your homeowner's or renter's policy if your home burns down. 
Fire insurance is mostly sold by the private sector; unemployment insurance is "sold" by the government - because the private sector never performed this role adequately. The original legislative intent, reaffirmed over the years, is clear: Help people to help themselves in the face of shocks beyond their control.
But the severity and depth of our current recession raise an issue that we have literally not had to confront since the 1930s. What should we do when people run out of standard unemployment benefits - much of which are provided at the state level - but still cannot find a job? 
In negotiations currently under way, House Republicans propose to cut back drastically on these benefits, asserting that this will push people back to work and speed the recovery. Does this make sense, or is it bad economics, as well as being mean-spirited? 
(For details on the current benefit situation, see this information from California, as well as this on the political background. After a two-month extension of benefits at the end of last year, the terms of continuing it are currently before a House-Senate conference committee.)

The United States has lost more jobs than in any other recession in the last 70 years - and jobs have been slower to return, as this chart from Economix shows: 
In raw numbers, we lost more than eight million jobs, most of which have not returned. Paul Solman of PBS NewsHour prefers a measure he calls U-7, which includes the underemployed and those who want a job but have been out of work so long that the government no longer counts them; this currently stands at 16.9 percent of the work force (see this article and also, for background, a discussion he and I had in the fall on the "shape" of the recovery, in which we relied on the B.L.S. data.) 
However you want to count it, the financial crisis of 2008 brought on a jobs disaster - and the scale of this disaster is still with us. We like to say that the recession is over, but this just means that the economy is growing again. In no meaningful sense is the jobs crisis over.
Typically in the United States, most people are unemployed for relatively short periods of time, with a lot of movement in and out of unemployment. The fraction of long-term unemployed as a percentage of all unemployed is usually 10 to 15 percent. In the early 1980s, it briefly reached almost 25 percent.
Again, however, our experience since 2008 has been strikingly different - the share of long-term unemployed in total unemployed is close to 45 percent. And it appears to be staying at or near that level for the foreseeable future.
The House Republicans now propose to change many rules under which the federal government provides "extended benefits" to people who have exhausted their state benefits. 
In most countries, unemployment insurance is managed primarily by the central government and its agencies. In our federal structure we have preferred, as with other kinds of emergencies (such as natural disasters), to have the states provide the first line of defense, with the federal government providing backup. It is the federal government that has the strongest ability to borrow at low interest rates; most states are much more lacking in cash. 
Do not be deceived by claims that the federal government is "broke," in the sense that it cannot afford to provide additional support to states and people at this level. This is a myth, pure and simple. 
Perhaps the most obvious - and most obviously wrong - proposal is for the federal government to support extended benefits only when unemployment is higher now than it has been on average over the previous three years (in legislative jargon, this is known as a three-year look-back). But three years ago was early 2009 - when the jobs crisis was already well under way. If you were caught up in the initial downdraft from the collapse of Lehman Brothers, you would be left on your own.
The look-back either should be updated or, preferably under these circumstances, suspended entirely. Neither the G.O.P. nor - amazingly - the Obama White House has yet taken any steps in that direction.
Along with other policy changes, the Republican proposal would cut up to 40 weeks from the existing available federal unemployment benefits.
The jobs crisis was caused by recklessness in the financial sector, made possible by irresponsible deregulation (including a period when Republicans controlled Congress and the White House) and resulting in enormous unconditional bailout protection for the bankers at the heart of the disaster (under both President George W. Bush and President Obama).
Let's be generous for a moment and simply state that mistakes were made - on an enormous, macroeconomic scale with gut-wrenching consequences for families around the country. Why would anyone now seek to punish these people when they seek work but cannot get it? 
In some parts of the Midwest, there are roughly four unemployed people for every job vacancy; the numbers are similar in many other parts of the country. Simply telling people to move is also not helpful - where exactly do you see hiring on a scale that would put a dent in these overall numbers?
Extended unemployment benefits provide on average about $300 a week - one-third of the average weekly wage and only about 70 percent of the poverty level for a family of four. If you strip even this money from people who remain out of work through no fault of their own, you will push more individuals and families onto the streets and into shelters. The cost of providing those fallback services is very high - and much higher than providing unemployment benefits.
How does it help any economic recovery when the people who lose jobs cannot even afford to buy basic goods and services - enough to keep their family afloat?
This was the profound insight - under tragic circumstances - learned from the Great Depression. Unemployment insurance and Social Security were introduced together in the 1930s and funded in the same way - through payroll taxes. As President Franklin D. Roosevelt said at the time (quoted by David M. Kennedy in "Freedom From Fear," on Page 267):
We put those payroll contributions there so as to give the contributors a legal, moral and political right to collect their pensions and their unemployment benefits. With those taxes in there, no damn politician can ever scrap my Social Security programs.
That logic worked for nearly 80 years. In the face of our modern mean-spiritedness, it now seems likely to collapse.

        
With Unemployment Insurance, Is 99 Weeks the Magic Number?
        
Unemployment Compensation Over Time
        
Millions Caught by the Social Safety Net
        
Who Gets Unemployment Benefits
        
How Unemployment Benefits Became Twice as Generous

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%) Daily Economist; employment; Great Depression; Great Recession; jobs; long-term unemployed; recession; Simon Johnson; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



366 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: A Reason to Major in the Humanities

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A chemistry professor argues that humanities degrees may be more important for tomorrow's job market than is generally believed. 

 BODY:
We've written severalblogpostsabout the small share of American college students majoring in the so-called STEM fields -- science, technology, engineering and mathematics -- with the implicit premise that more bachelor's degrees in technical fields is both desirable on a macroeconomic level and is professionally advantageous at the individual worker level. A former dean of an engineering school suggests that thinking may be wrong.
Daniel Jelski, a chemistry professor at the State University of New York at New Paltz and previous dean of New Paltz's School of Science & Engineering, argues in a New Geography essay that humanities degrees may be more important for tomorrow's job market than is generally believed.
He bases this on three "Laws of Future Employment":
Law #1: People will get jobs doing things that computers can't do. Law #2: A global market place will result in lower pay and fewer opportunities for many careers. (But also in cheaper and better products and a higher standard of living for American consumers.) Law #3: Professional people will more likely be freelancers and less likely to have a steady job.
The implications of Laws #1 and #2, he says, are that STEM jobs will not be particularly safe in the future, since he believes they are "easily computerized and tradable."
The more valuable skill sets, he argues, will be those that computers can't offer, like empathy and sociability -- skills that you might be more likely to learn in an English course than one in linear algebra.

        
Why Students Leave the Engineering Track
        
United States of Health Care
        
College Major and Family Mental Illness
        
Want a Job? Go to College, and Don't Major in Architecture
        
Do College Grads Earn Less Now Than 40 Years Ago?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%) Colleges and Universities; engineering; engineers; higher education; is college worth it; jobs; Engineering and Engineers; Humanities; Labor and Jobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



367 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: In Energy Department Competition, Students Wield Textbooks and Welding Torches

BYLINE: JIM WITKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Students participating in the EcoCar2 challenge are charged with improving the fuel efficiency of a vehicle without sacrificing performance or safety. 

 BODY:
Student teams and industry sponsors gathered in Austin, Tex., last week for the winter workshop of EcoCar2: Plugging in to the Future, a competition sponsored by the Energy Department. Teams from 15 universities are challenged to reduce the fuel consumption and emissions of a car -- this year, a 2013 Chevrolet Malibu -- without compromising performance or safety standards.
The competition, which began at the start of the academic year last September, is scheduled to conclude in 2014. Kristen De La Rosa, the director of the competition, said in a telephone interview that the three-year timeline was modeled on the typical vehicle development cycle at General Motors. As co-sponsor of the competition, G.M. will supply the Malibus as well as technical and financial support to the teams.
This is the 10th such competition convened by the Energy Department since they began in the late 1980s. Each iteration features a different group of universities and domestic manufacturer as co-sponsor. Many of the more than 15,000 alumni from the competition go on to work in the domestic automotive industry, and keep tabs on the whereabouts of their former teammates and competitors through a dedicated Web site.
Each year, students work on a different aspect of the design, test and build cycles, and receive school credit for their participation. Year one, concluding in May, emphasizes the design of electrical storage systems. In Austin, student teams presented their designs to judges from one of the sponsor companies, the battery maker A123 Systems. Winners and awards will be announced at the final workshop this year, scheduled for May in Los Angeles. In September, each team will receive the keys to a 2013 Chevy Malibu and begin the work of dismantling and re-engineering.
Trevor Fayer, a graduate engineering student and co-team leader from the University of Washington, said in a telephone interview that he was acquiring skills he wouldn't gain in the classroom. "We get unprecedented hands-on experience through the competition, which you can't get from any textbook," he said. "It makes some of my other classes seem abstract by comparison."
Mr. Fayer said the University of Washington team envisioned its project car as a "through-the-road, parallel plug-in hybrid electric vehicle." The design calls for two drivetrain systems: a diesel engine to drive the front axle and an electric motor mounted at the rear. "You can use these two in parallel together, or one at a time, for fuel economy," he said. The team expects to get 50 miles of range from the electric motor alone, which would reduce tailpipe emissions for most driving needs.
Benjamin Geller, a Ph.D. candidate in mechanical engineering from Colorado State University, said his team was also designing a plug-in hybrid, but with a hydrogen fuel cell on board.
"It will be a fully electric, front-wheel drive vehicle, with a hydrogen fuel cell to extend range," Mr. Geller said in a telephone interview. He hopes for such technology to be adopted widely by consumers in the next 15 to 20 years. (G.M. intends to commercialize a hydrogen fuel-cell car as early as 2015.)
Though innovations from the competition may not necessarily find their way into production, Ms. De La Rosa said the competition served as a rite of passage for the students involved, offering real-world skills, industry contacts and a sense of direction. "It's a great opportunity for them to figure out what's next in their careers," she said.

        
Unable to Meet Energy Department Targets, Fisker Stops Work at Delaware Plant
        
Wheelies: The Blame-Game Edition
        
Unable to Raise Financing, Aptera Shuts Down
        
In San Diego, Mulling the Second Life of an E.V. Battery
        
G.M. Link-Up With LG Chem Will Range Beyond Batteries

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (72%); BATTERY MFG (67%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (63%) A123 Systems; Argonne; Chevrolet Malibu; Department of Energy; General Motors; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Energy Department; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Electric Vehicles; Industry News; Technology

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); A123 SYSTEMS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Energy Department; General Motors

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%) General Motors; GM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



368 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Paying Your Own Bills at Age 22

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A new poll from Pew Research Center find that expectations for when young adults should be financially independent have gotten laxer over the years. 

 BODY:
Apparently there is some truth to that stereotype of today's 20-somethings being stuck in an extended adolescence -- but if so, it seems to be mostly their own parents' doing.
A new poll from Pew Research Center finds that expectations for when young adults should be financially independent have gotten laxer over the years:
As you can see, in 1993, 80 percent of parents with children age 16 or younger said they expected their children to be financially independent by age 22. As of 2011, only 67 percent of parents agreed. (The choices offered in the poll were ages 18, 22, 25, 30, and Never.)
Ask that same question of young people (ages 18 to 34) today, and the expectations are about the same. But Americans who have children over 18 and Americans who are over age 50 are far more tolerant of children's financial dependence later in life:
Of survey respondents with adult children, 46 percent say children can rely on their parents for financial support after age 22. Of respondents who are older than 50, regardless of their parental status, a similar share (44 percent) has this mindset.
I'm surprised -- I would have expected that children would act more entitled to parental financial support than their parents expected them to be.
Another interesting finding of the poll, in any case, was the different genders' attitudes about the economic challenges that face them. Among young people (age 18-34), women were substantially more likely to say that it's harder for today's young adults than it was for their parents' generation to achieve things like employment, college admission and homeownership:
Perhaps this explains why young women are investing in higher education at much higher rates than their male counterparts: With a more pessimistic view of the socioeconomic conditions ahead of them, young women are more likely to go the extra mile to prepare themselves.

        
Dimming Optimism for Today's Youth
        
Young and Hopeful
        
The Self-Employed Are Most Satisfied with Their Jobs
        
Latinos on the Economy: Hard Hit but Hopeful
        
Older to Wed, If They Marry at All

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PARENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WOMEN (88%); TRENDS (72%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Pew Research Center; poll; young people; Economic Conditions and Trends; Polls and Public Opinion; Youth

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



369 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: People Are Not Leaving the Labor Force

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Some commentators claim unemployment numbers look better because discouraged people are dropping out of the labor force. They are simply wrong. 

 BODY:
More than a little commentary on last week's employment report asserts that the apparent good news came from people dropping out of the labor force, and thereby not being counted as unemployed. Some of that came in comments on my previous jobs post.
Those making that claim have not read what the Bureau of Labor Statistics had to say. If you follow the link, go to Table C. 
You will learn that previously discouraged workers seem to be entering the labor force and looking for jobs. That is just what you would expect to happen when the job market is improving.
Each January the bureau updates its population estimates, and this update was particularly large because it had a new census to use. The policy is to not revise the earlier unemployment survey numbers, so sometimes there are big apparent changes that are not actually there. That is what happened in January.
The government says that the estimate changes reduced the labor force participation rate by 0.3 percentage points. Without the new estimates the number would have been unchanged from December to January. 
The changes had no effect on the unemployment rate.
The really important part is what the government says about the figure for "not in labor force." Those are people who are not working and say they are not looking for jobs. It includes students, retired people and others not interested in working, but it also includes people who have simply given up looking. So a big increase in that can be interpreted as a very bad indication of the health of the labor market.
If you simply download the data, you will conclude the figure rose by 1,177,000 people from December to January, and that is what a lot of people did. But the changes in the population estimates caused all that gain, and more. The reality, the government says, is that the number of people not in the labor force by 75,000 people.
The government release states (with my italics):
The adjustment increased the estimated size of the civilian noninstitutional population in December by 1,510,000, the civilian labor force by 258,000, employment by 216,000, unemployment by 42,000, and persons not in the labor force by 1,252,000. Although the total unemployment rate was unaffected, the labor force participation rate and the employment-population ratio were each reduced by 0.3 percentage point. 
The government simply underestimated how many of us there were and did not appreciate just how large the proportion of people not of working age was. So it has in the past overestimated the labor force participation rate.
The government now thinks there are 1,626,000 more women than it had estimated, and 116,000 fewer men. It thinks there are 1,181,000 fewer white people, 407,000 more blacks, 1,161,000 more Asians and 1,330,000 more Hispanics.
The government does two employment surveys every month. All the numbers cited above show up in the household survey. The other survey, the establishment survey, comes from talking to employers, and it produces the job number, which after seasonal adjustment was up 243,000 in January. The household survey was even better than that. After adjusting for the population changes, it found that 631,000 more people were working.
Both surveys for January looked good. The household survey looked especially good. Those who interpreted it the other way were simply wrong.

        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Wow. But Is the Number Real?
        
What's at Stake in Friday's Jobs Report
        
More on Labor Force Dropouts
        
Employed Women, Dropping Out of the Labor Force

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (94%); LABOR FORCE (94%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (74%); CENSUS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%) dropping out of the labor force; January 2012 jobs report; jobs; labor force participation rates; labor participation; Labor and Jobs; Population; Unemployment; United States Economy; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Floyd Norris

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%) Bureau of Labor Statistics

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



370 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2324 words

HEADLINE: It's All an Allusion: Identifying Allusions, in Literature and in Life

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE, KATHERINE SCHULTEN and HOLLY OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson | What is an allusion? In this lesson, students read an essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 

 BODY:
Overview | What is an allusion? How often do you spot them, whether in your reading, in pop culture, in advertising or anywhere else? In this lesson, students read a Book Review essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions made in New York Times articles and headlines, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 
Materials | Computers with Internet access and printing capability.
Warm-Up | Ask students to define "allusion." Check that they understand it as a "brief, usually indirect reference to another place, event" or to words spoken by or that depict a person or fictional character. Give a few common examples, like someone being described as a "Romeo," an allusion to Shakespeare's romantic but doomed tragic hero, or a person saying, "I never thought I'd move back to my hometown, but I guess deep down, I'm a Dorothy," alluding to the "Wizard of Oz" character who learns "there's no place like home." You can also ask what is meant by calling a group of women "the real housewives of [name of your city or town]" and asking the source (wealthy, drama-prone women who have a similar look to those seen on the "Real Housewives" franchise). Ask, what would you expect if I called a certain boy an Edward? What about a Jacob? (main characters of the "Twilight" book and movie series). Have students name more allusions, explaining their meanings and sources.
Then, lead a discussion about the pros and cons of making allusions. Pros might include conveying much information in a single word or two or bonding over a shared interest in the source. Cons include allusions only making sense to those who know the source material or, in the case of pop culture phenomena, losing their meaning as time passes. To prove this, ask students to describe a "Jeannie Bueller," or an "Eddie Haskell." Then ask colleagues in their 40's or 50's the same question to share the answers: a jealous sister who has a wildly popular brother (from "Ferris Bueller's Day Off"), and a sycophant who is overly polite to adults for his own gain ("Leave It to Beaver").
End by turning the tables on yourself and your colleagues, having students ask you to explain allusions to things that most in their peer group will understand immediately but might not be so clear to those being asked. Or, have them brainstorm allusions today that most would understand ("Brangelina," for example), but that may be impenetrable twenty-five years from now.
Related | In the essay Elizabeth D. Samet writes about the pleasures and perils of this literary device:
Allusion can feel like something of a parlor game even in the best of times. In the 1940s, in a discussion of T. S. Eliot's densely allusive poem "The Waste Land," the formalist critics William K. Wimsatt and Monroe C. Beardsley questioned prevailing assumptions about the value of allusion-hunting. Eschewing the role of literary detective, they rejected the notion that we "do not know what a poet means unless we have traced him in his reading." "Eliot's allusions work," they argued in "The Intentional Fallacy," "when we know them - and to a great extent even when we do not know them, through their suggestive power. . . . It would not much matter if Eliot invented his sources," as Walter Scott and Coleridge had done. Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Why do allusions that fail to convey their intended meaning or are not understood by the audience "leave us all exposed," as Ms. Samet contends?
        
How is the "Vronsky's horse" anecdote an example of this?
        
Why does the classroom have "its own special dangers" when it comes to allusions?
        
How, according to the essay, has the Internet affected people's abilities to use and verify allusions?
        
How does your experiences with allusions support or challenge the author's statement that "In trying to illuminate an allusion in class, I sometimes feel as if I'm opening one nesting doll after another until there's nothing left at all."
Related resources:
Activity | Begin by having students reread the article, finding the unexplained allusions it contains. Have them identify the sources, marking "K" for those they already knew and therefore recognized immediately, "I" for those they found via Internet searching, and "O" for other, meaning that they found the source in some other way, whether asking other people, looking in books, or even just guessing.
The allusions include:
"I was reminded that each unhappy allusion is unhappy in its own way." -Leo Tolstoy, 
"Don't make it sad, Cricket, I don't feel that way." -- Ernest Hemingway, "To Have and Have Not" and the 1944 film adaptation
"Gimme a whiskey. . . . And don't be stingy, baby." -- Eugene O'Neill's play "Anna Christie"
"Bastard Normans, Norman bastards." -- William Shakespeare, "The Life of King Henry the Fifth"
"Scylla of the swindle to the Charybdis of condescension" -- Greek mythology: Scylla is a sea creature who devours sailors and Charybdis is a whirlpool opposite Scylla's cave
"... several keyboarding Natty Bumppos of my acquaintance" -- James Fenimore Cooper's The Leatherstocking Tales
The title of the essay "Grand Allusion" --a play on "Grand Illusion," a 1937 French war film directed by Jean Renoir
Lead a discussion about the experience of identifying the above allusions. Compare the pride of knowing, or at least being being familiar with, one or more, versus the experience of searching for the phrase online. Ask: What is the difference between relying on Google versus your own memory of favorite books, movies or plays? Is this distinction relevant today for most people, do you think?
Next, ask students to discuss this idea from today's essay:
Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Ask for examples that illustrate the point. You might begin by asking students if they share a love of a certain sports team or musician with a parent or other older person, and the difference, if there is any, between, say, watching live as a famous game unfolded (or listening just as a seminal album was released) versus watching highlights online or downloading an entire music catalog in a single sitting. 
Then use the Scylla and Charybdis allusion from the essay as an example. Ask: Is it enough to know it's a reference to a Greek myth? Or to truly "get" the allusion, do you have to know the story it comes from and what it means?
Next, have students take the New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz, below, alone, in partners or in small groups. 
New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz
1. "I left Dickens World after a couple of days. As a literary experience, it had been pretty thin gruel. But like _________, I wanted more."
2. "More Than Kin, and Less Than _________"
3. "In his previous books the journalist Ron Rosenbaum has tackled big topics - Hitler's evil, Shakespeare's genius - with acuity and irreverence, believing, correctly, that some things are too important to leave to the experts. He's proud of his gonzo amateur status, so much so that you half suspect he has a scarlet '_________' tattooed across his chest, where Superman wore his 'S.'"
4. "Without a Bang or a _________, The School Board Fades Away"
5. "... I've come to think something is _________ in the state of economics. The dismal science, as Thomas Carlyle called it, has been ravaged by the same virus that has corrupted the rest of our national discourse."
6. "Qaddafi might have maneuvered himself into a gilded overseer's role and gifted power to his bespectacled son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, the nice, educated boy who lost it when he realized - The horror! The _________! - that he might have to give up all his toys"
7. "To paraphrase William Carlos Williams, so much _________ upon a Chicago bank." 
8. "Decentralizing the Internet So Big _________ Can't Find You"
9. "Destruction, thy _________ is Bieber."
10. "The Kushner Flap: Much Ado About _________"
11. "Call me, _________"
12. "It was the best of times, it was the _________ of times. O.K., maybe not literally the worst, but definitely bad."
Have students share their findings and check their answers, then discuss the meaning and source, including, again, whether they knew it or looked it up. Students might then look up the original and explain its context, then relate it to the allusion. This can be done independently or in groups.
Going Further | There are several options to extend this lesson:
 Every edition of The New York Times is full of allusions. Challenge teams to find and list as many as they possibly can as they read articles that interest them. Then, have them read the After Deadline column "Allusions We Love Too Much" on the line between allusion and cliche. Which, if any, of the allusions they found do they believe have been overused enough to become cliches? Why?
 Though this lesson has mostly dealt with literary allusions, students will likely bring up the dizzying ways in which artists across categories remix, reuse, update and mash-up material today, from musicians who "sample" bits of other music in their pieces to new versions of Jane Austen and Shakespeare to advertising that references or remakes cultural touchstones. Have them do a version of the Allusion Hunting activity above, but with the whole world as fair game: how many "allusions" can they spot in one day? (Use our lesson plan Remix, Reuse, Recombine: Holding a Seminar on Mash-Up Culture for more help.)
 Ask students to write an original essay on a topic unrelated to allusions, planting as many allusions as they can. Or, they can retrofit an old essay, sewing in references. Have them read one another's work, identifying and discussing the allusions and weighing in on whether each one "works" or seems tacked on for the sake of the assignment. Have them incorporate a response to this sentence from today's article: "Unlike most tricks, the allusion triumphs only when people know precisely how it is done."
 Have students read the Frank O'Hara poem "The Day Lady Died," which is mentioned in the article. Have them identify the references and then address Ms. Samet's description of her students' responses to it. They can write a reaction essay or write a poem of their own in the style of O'Hara's.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards):
Art Connections
1. Understands connections among the various art forms and other disciplines.
Theater
5. Understands how informal and formal theater, film, television, and electronic media productions create and communicate meaning.
6. Understands the context in which theater, film, television and electronic media are performed today as well as in the past.
Historical Understanding
1. Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns.
 2. Understands the historical perspective.
Language Arts
1. Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
 2. Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
 3. Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written compositions.
 4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
 5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
 6. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of literary texts.
 7. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of informational texts.
 8. Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes.
 9. Uses viewing skills and strategies to understand and interpret visual media.
New York Times Literary Allusion Quiz answers: 
1. Oliver Twist, alluding to the character in Charles Dickens's novel of the same name (from a 2012 article, "The World of Charles Dickens, Complete With Pizza Hut").
2. Kind, alluding to a line in Shakespeare's "Hamlet" (The headline was for a 2011 Opinon piece about the News of the World scandal.)
3. "A," alluding to Nathaniel Hawthorne's "The Scarlet Letter" (from "Thinking the Unthinkable Again in a Nuclear Age," a 2011 book review).
4. Whimper, alluding to T.S. Eliot's "The Hollow Men" (from this 2002 article).
5. rotten, alluding to Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from "The Politics of Economics in the Age of Shouting," a 2011 Op-Ed).
6. horror, alluding to Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" (from a 2011 Op-Ed, "The Price of Delusion").
7. depends, alluding to Williams's poem, "The Red Wheel Barrow" (from a 2007 Business article, "Chicago Is Major Battleground for ABN Amro Bid War").
8. Brother, alluding to George Orwell's "1984" (from a2011 New York Region article).
9. name, alluding to "Frailty, thy name is woman," from, yep, Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from a 2009 piece, "20-Year-Old Fogy Cedes Audience to 15-Year-Old").
10. Nothing, alluding to the Shakespearean play of the same name (from a 2011 Opinion piece by Stanley Fish).
11. Ishmael, alluding to the first line of Herman Melville's "Moby Dick" (the ).
12. worst, alluding to the first line of Charles Dickens's "Tale of Two Cities" (from "The Banks Are Not All Right," a 2009 Op-Ed).

        
2011 Nobel Prize Winners Announced
        
Figuratively Speaking: Exploring How Metaphors Make Meaning
        
To What Writer Would You Award a Prize?
        
10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature
        
Teaching 'The Lord of the Flies' With The New York Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LITERATURE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); LITERARY CRITICISM (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%) allusions; figurative language; Literature; Academic Skills; Art as a Reflection of Society; Drama; Fiction; Fine Arts; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literacy Skills; Literary Analysis; Nonfiction; Poetry

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%); ANGELINA JOLIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



371 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: People Are Not Leaving the Labor Force

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Some commentators claim unemployment numbers look better because discouraged people are dropping out of the labor force. They are simply wrong. 

 BODY:
More than a little commentary on last week's employment report asserts that the apparent good news came from people dropping out of the labor force, and thereby not being counted as unemployed. Some of that came in comments on my previous jobs post.
Those making that claim have not read what the Bureau of Labor Statistics had to say. If you follow the link, go to Table C. 
You will learn that previously discouraged workers seem to be entering the labor force and looking for jobs. That is just what you would expect to happen when the job market is improving.
Each January the bureau updates its population estimates, and this update was particularly large because it had a new census to use. The policy is to not revise the earlier unemployment survey numbers, so sometimes there are big apparent changes that are not actually there. That is what happened in January.
The government says that the estimate changes reduced the labor force participation rate by 0.3 percentage points. Without the new estimates the number would have been unchanged from December to January. 
The changes had no effect on the unemployment rate.
The really important part is what the government says about the figure for "not in labor force." Those are people who are not working and say they are not looking for jobs. It includes students, retired people and others not interested in working, but it also includes people who have simply given up looking. So a big increase in that can be interpreted as a very bad indication of the health of the labor market.
If you simply download the data, you will conclude the figure rose by 1,177,000 people from December to January, and that is what a lot of people did. But the changes in the population estimates caused all that gain, and more. The reality, the government says, is that the number of people not in the labor force by 75,000 people.
The government release states (with my italics):
The adjustment increased the estimated size of the civilian noninstitutional population in December by 1,510,000, the civilian labor force by 258,000, employment by 216,000, unemployment by 42,000, and persons not in the labor force by 1,252,000. Although the total unemployment rate was unaffected, the labor force participation rate and the employment-population ratio were each reduced by 0.3 percentage point. 
The government simply underestimated how many of us there were and did not appreciate just how large the proportion of people not of working age was. So it has in the past overestimated the labor force participation rate.
The government now thinks there are 1,626,000 more women than it had estimated, and 116,000 fewer men. It thinks there are 1,181,000 fewer white people, 407,000 more blacks, 1,161,000 more Asians and 1,330,000 more Hispanics.
The government does two employment surveys every month. All the numbers cited above show up in the household survey. The other survey, the establishment survey, comes from talking to employers, and it produces the job number, which after seasonal adjustment was up 243,000 in January. The household survey was even better than that. After adjusting for the population changes, it found that 631,000 more people were working.
Both surveys for January looked good. The household survey looked especially good. Those who interpreted it the other way were simply wrong.

        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Wow. But Is the Number Real?
        
What's at Stake in Friday's Jobs Report
        
More on Labor Force Dropouts
        
Employed Women, Dropping Out of the Labor Force

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (94%); LABOR FORCE (94%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (74%); CENSUS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%) dropping out of the labor force; January 2012 jobs report; jobs; labor force participation rates; labor participation; Labor and Jobs; Population; Unemployment; United States Economy; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Floyd Norris

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%) Bureau of Labor Statistics

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



372 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2344 words

HEADLINE: It's All an Allusion: Identifying Allusions, in Literature and in Life

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE, KATHERINE SCHULTEN and HOLLY OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson | What is an allusion? In this lesson, students read an essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 

 BODY:
Overview | What is an allusion? How often do you spot them, whether in your reading, in pop culture, in advertising or anywhere else? In this lesson, students read a Book Review essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions made in New York Times articles and headlines, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 
Materials | Computers with Internet access and printing capability.
Warm-Up | Ask students to define "allusion." Check that they understand it as a "brief, usually indirect reference to another place, event" or to words spoken by or that depict a person or fictional character. Give a few common examples, like someone being described as a "Romeo," an allusion to Shakespeare's romantic but doomed tragic hero, or a person saying, "I never thought I'd move back to my hometown, but I guess deep down, I'm a Dorothy," alluding to the "Wizard of Oz" character who learns "there's no place like home." You can also ask what is meant by calling a group of women "the real housewives of [name of your city or town]" and asking the source (wealthy, drama-prone women who have a similar look to those seen on the "Real Housewives" franchise). Ask, what would you expect if I called a certain boy an Edward? What about a Jacob? (main characters of the "Twilight" book and movie series). Have students name more allusions, explaining their meanings and sources.
Then, lead a discussion about the pros and cons of making allusions. Pros might include conveying much information in a single word or two or bonding over a shared interest in the source. Cons include allusions only making sense to those who know the source material or, in the case of pop culture phenomena, losing their meaning as time passes. To prove this, ask students to describe a "Jeannie Bueller," or an "Eddie Haskell." Then ask colleagues in their 40's or 50's the same question to share the answers: a jealous sister who has a wildly popular brother (from "Ferris Bueller's Day Off"), and a sycophant who is overly polite to adults for his own gain ("Leave It to Beaver").
End by turning the tables on yourself and your colleagues, having students ask you to explain allusions to things that most in their peer group will understand immediately but might not be so clear to those being asked. Or, have them brainstorm allusions today that most would understand ("Brangelina," for example), but that may be impenetrable twenty-five years from now.
Related | In the essay Elizabeth D. Samet writes about the pleasures and perils of this literary device:
Allusion can feel like something of a parlor game even in the best of times. In the 1940s, in a discussion of T. S. Eliot's densely allusive poem "The Waste Land," the formalist critics William K. Wimsatt and Monroe C. Beardsley questioned prevailing assumptions about the value of allusion-hunting. Eschewing the role of literary detective, they rejected the notion that we "do not know what a poet means unless we have traced him in his reading." "Eliot's allusions work," they argued in "The Intentional Fallacy," "when we know them - and to a great extent even when we do not know them, through their suggestive power. . . . It would not much matter if Eliot invented his sources," as Walter Scott and Coleridge had done. Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Why do allusions that fail to convey their intended meaning or are not understood by the audience "leave us all exposed," as Ms. Samet contends?
        
How is the "Vronsky's horse" anecdote an example of this?
        
Why does the classroom have "its own special dangers" when it comes to allusions?
        
How, according to the essay, has the Internet affected people's abilities to use and verify allusions?
        
How does your experiences with allusions support or challenge the author's statement that "In trying to illuminate an allusion in class, I sometimes feel as if I'm opening one nesting doll after another until there's nothing left at all."
Related resources:
Activity | Begin by having students reread the article, finding the unexplained allusions it contains. Have them identify the sources, marking "K" for those they already knew and therefore recognized immediately, "I" for those they found via Internet searching, and "O" for other, meaning that they found the source in some other way, whether asking other people, looking in books, or even just guessing.
The allusions include:
"I was reminded that each unhappy allusion is unhappy in its own way." -Leo Tolstoy, 
"Don't make it sad, Cricket, I don't feel that way." -- Ernest Hemingway, "To Have and Have Not" and the 1944 film adaptation
"Gimme a whiskey. . . . And don't be stingy, baby." -- Eugene O'Neill's play "Anna Christie"
"Bastard Normans, Norman bastards." -- William Shakespeare, "The Life of King Henry the Fifth"
"Scylla of the swindle to the Charybdis of condescension" -- Greek mythology: Scylla is a sea creature who devours sailors and Charybdis is a whirlpool opposite Scylla's cave
"... several keyboarding Natty Bumppos of my acquaintance" -- James Fenimore Cooper's The Leatherstocking Tales
The title of the essay "Grand Allusion" --a play on "Grand Illusion," a 1937 French war film directed by Jean Renoir
Lead a discussion about the experience of identifying the above allusions. Compare the pride of knowing, or at least being being familiar with, one or more, versus the experience of searching for the phrase online. Ask: What is the difference between relying on Google versus your own memory of favorite books, movies or plays? Is this distinction relevant today for most people, do you think?
Next, ask students to discuss this idea from today's essay:
Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Ask for examples that illustrate the point. You might begin by asking students if they share a love of a certain sports team or musician with a parent or other older person, and the difference, if there is any, between, say, watching live as a famous game unfolded (or listening just as a seminal album was released) versus watching highlights online or downloading an entire music catalog in a single sitting. 
Then use the Scylla and Charybdis allusion from the essay as an example. Ask: Is it enough to know it's a reference to a Greek myth? Or to truly "get" the allusion, do you have to know the story it comes from and what it means?
Next, have students take the New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz, below, alone, in partners or in small groups. 
New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz
1. "I left Dickens World after a couple of days. As a literary experience, it had been pretty thin gruel. But like _________, I wanted more."
2. "More Than Kin, and Less Than _________"
3. "In his previous books the journalist Ron Rosenbaum has tackled big topics - Hitler's evil, Shakespeare's genius - with acuity and irreverence, believing, correctly, that some things are too important to leave to the experts. He's proud of his gonzo amateur status, so much so that you half suspect he has a scarlet '_________' tattooed across his chest, where Superman wore his 'S.'"
4. "Without a Bang or a _________, The School Board Fades Away"
5. "... I've come to think something is _________ in the state of economics. The dismal science, as Thomas Carlyle called it, has been ravaged by the same virus that has corrupted the rest of our national discourse."
6. "Qaddafi might have maneuvered himself into a gilded overseer's role and gifted power to his bespectacled son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, the nice, educated boy who lost it when he realized - The horror! The _________! - that he might have to give up all his toys"
7. "To paraphrase William Carlos Williams, so much _________ upon a Chicago bank." 
8. "Decentralizing the Internet So Big _________ Can't Find You"
9. "Destruction, thy _________ is Bieber."
10. "The Kushner Flap: Much Ado About _________"
11. "Call me, _________" (Please note: In the original, there is no comma; in the Times essay we are quoting here, there is. Read it to see why.)
12. "It was the best of times, it was the _________ of times. O.K., maybe not literally the worst, but definitely bad."
Have students share their findings and check their answers, then discuss the meaning and source, including, again, whether they knew it or looked it up. Students might then look up the original and explain its context, then relate it to the allusion. This can be done independently or in groups.
Going Further | There are several options to extend this lesson:
 Every edition of The New York Times is full of allusions. Challenge teams to find and list as many as they possibly can as they read articles that interest them. Then, have them read the After Deadline column "Allusions We Love Too Much" on the line between allusion and cliche. Which, if any, of the allusions they found do they believe have been overused enough to become cliches? Why?
 Though this lesson has mostly dealt with literary allusions, students will likely bring up the dizzying ways in which artists across categories remix, reuse, update and mash-up material today, from musicians who "sample" bits of other music in their pieces to new versions of Jane Austen and Shakespeare to advertising that references or remakes cultural touchstones. Have them do a version of the Allusion Hunting activity above, but with the whole world as fair game: how many "allusions" can they spot in one day? (Use our lesson plan Remix, Reuse, Recombine: Holding a Seminar on Mash-Up Culture for more help.)
 Ask students to write an original essay on a topic unrelated to allusions, planting as many allusions as they can. Or, they can retrofit an old essay, sewing in references. Have them read one another's work, identifying and discussing the allusions and weighing in on whether each one "works" or seems tacked on for the sake of the assignment. Have them incorporate a response to this sentence from today's article: "Unlike most tricks, the allusion triumphs only when people know precisely how it is done."
 Have students read the Frank O'Hara poem "The Day Lady Died," which is mentioned in the article. Have them identify the references and then address Ms. Samet's description of her students' responses to it. They can write a reaction essay or write a poem of their own in the style of O'Hara's.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards):
Art Connections
1. Understands connections among the various art forms and other disciplines.
Theater
5. Understands how informal and formal theater, film, television, and electronic media productions create and communicate meaning.
6. Understands the context in which theater, film, television and electronic media are performed today as well as in the past.
Historical Understanding
1. Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns.
 2. Understands the historical perspective.
Language Arts
1. Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
 2. Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
 3. Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written compositions.
 4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
 5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
 6. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of literary texts.
 7. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of informational texts.
 8. Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes.
 9. Uses viewing skills and strategies to understand and interpret visual media.
New York Times Literary Allusion Quiz answers: 
1. Oliver Twist, alluding to the character in Charles Dickens's novel of the same name (from a 2012 article, "The World of Charles Dickens, Complete With Pizza Hut").
2. Kind, alluding to a line in Shakespeare's "Hamlet" (The headline was for a 2011 Opinon piece about the News of the World scandal.)
3. "A," alluding to Nathaniel Hawthorne's "The Scarlet Letter" (from "Thinking the Unthinkable Again in a Nuclear Age," a 2011 book review).
4. Whimper, alluding to T.S. Eliot's "The Hollow Men" (from this 2002 article).
5. rotten, alluding to Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from "The Politics of Economics in the Age of Shouting," a 2011 Op-Ed).
6. horror, alluding to Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" (from a 2011 Op-Ed, "The Price of Delusion").
7. depends, alluding to Williams's poem, "The Red Wheel Barrow" (from a 2007 Business article, "Chicago Is Major Battleground for ABN Amro Bid War").
8. Brother, alluding to George Orwell's "1984" (from a2011 New York Region article).
9. name, alluding to "Frailty, thy name is woman," from, yep, Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from a 2009 piece, "20-Year-Old Fogy Cedes Audience to 15-Year-Old").
10. Nothing, alluding to the Shakespearean play of the same name (from a 2011 Opinion piece by Stanley Fish).
11. Ishmael, alluding to the first line of Herman Melville's "Moby Dick" (the ).
12. worst, alluding to the first line of Charles Dickens's "Tale of Two Cities" (from "The Banks Are Not All Right," a 2009 Op-Ed).

        
2011 Nobel Prize Winners Announced
        
Figuratively Speaking: Exploring How Metaphors Make Meaning
        
To What Writer Would You Award a Prize?
        
10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature
        
Teaching 'The Lord of the Flies' With The New York Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LITERATURE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); LITERARY CRITICISM (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%) allusions; figurative language; Literature; Academic Skills; Art as a Reflection of Society; Drama; Fiction; Fine Arts; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literacy Skills; Literary Analysis; Nonfiction; Poetry

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%); ANGELINA JOLIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



373 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2347 words

HEADLINE: It's All an Allusion: Identifying Allusions, in Literature and in Life

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE, KATHERINE SCHULTEN and HOLLY OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson | What is an allusion? In this lesson, students read an essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 

 BODY:
Overview | What is an allusion? How often do you spot them, whether in your reading, in pop culture, in advertising or anywhere else? In this lesson, students read a Book Review essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions made in New York Times articles and headlines, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 
Materials | Computers with Internet access and printing capability.
Warm-Up | Ask students to define "allusion." Check that they understand it as a "brief, usually indirect reference to another place, event" or to words spoken by or that depict a person or fictional character. Give a few common examples, like someone being described as a "Romeo," an allusion to Shakespeare's romantic but doomed tragic hero, or a person saying, "I never thought I'd move back to my hometown, but I guess deep down, I'm a Dorothy," alluding to the "Wizard of Oz" character who learns "there's no place like home." You can also ask what is meant by calling a group of women "the real housewives of [name of your city or town]" and asking the source (wealthy, drama-prone women who have a similar look to those seen on the "Real Housewives" franchise). Ask, what would you expect if I called a certain boy an Edward? What about a Jacob? (main characters of the "Twilight" book and movie series). Have students name more allusions, explaining their meanings and sources.
Then, lead a discussion about the pros and cons of making allusions. Pros might include conveying much information in a single word or two or bonding over a shared interest in the source. Cons include allusions only making sense to those who know the source material or, in the case of pop culture phenomena, losing their meaning as time passes. To prove this, ask students to describe a "Jeannie Bueller," or an "Eddie Haskell." Then ask colleagues in their 40's or 50's the same question to share the answers: a jealous sister who has a wildly popular brother (from "Ferris Bueller's Day Off"), and a sycophant who is overly polite to adults for his own gain ("Leave It to Beaver").
End by turning the tables on yourself and your colleagues, having students ask you to explain allusions to things that most in their peer group will understand immediately but might not be so clear to those being asked. Or, have them brainstorm allusions today that most would understand ("Brangelina," for example), but that may be impenetrable twenty-five years from now.
Related | In the essay "Grand Allusion," Elizabeth D. Samet writes about the pleasures and perils of this literary device:
Allusion can feel like something of a parlor game even in the best of times. In the 1940s, in a discussion of T. S. Eliot's densely allusive poem "The Waste Land," the formalist critics William K. Wimsatt and Monroe C. Beardsley questioned prevailing assumptions about the value of allusion-hunting. Eschewing the role of literary detective, they rejected the notion that we "do not know what a poet means unless we have traced him in his reading." "Eliot's allusions work," they argued in "The Intentional Fallacy," "when we know them - and to a great extent even when we do not know them, through their suggestive power. . . . It would not much matter if Eliot invented his sources," as Walter Scott and Coleridge had done. Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Why do allusions that fail to convey their intended meaning or are not understood by the audience "leave us all exposed," as Ms. Samet contends?
        
How is the "Vronsky's horse" anecdote an example of this?
        
Why does the classroom have "its own special dangers" when it comes to allusions?
        
How, according to the essay, has the Internet affected people's abilities to use and verify allusions?
        
How does your experiences with allusions support or challenge the author's statement that "In trying to illuminate an allusion in class, I sometimes feel as if I'm opening one nesting doll after another until there's nothing left at all."
Related resources:
Activity | Begin by having students reread the article, finding the unexplained allusions it contains. Have them identify the sources, marking "K" for those they already knew and therefore recognized immediately, "I" for those they found via Internet searching, and "O" for other, meaning that they found the source in some other way, whether asking other people, looking in books, or even just guessing.
The allusions include:
"I was reminded that each unhappy allusion is unhappy in its own way." -Leo Tolstoy, 
"Don't make it sad, Cricket, I don't feel that way." -- Ernest Hemingway, "To Have and Have Not" and the 1944 film adaptation
"Gimme a whiskey. . . . And don't be stingy, baby." -- Eugene O'Neill's play "Anna Christie"
"Bastard Normans, Norman bastards." -- William Shakespeare, "The Life of King Henry the Fifth"
"Scylla of the swindle to the Charybdis of condescension" -- Greek mythology: Scylla is a sea creature who devours sailors and Charybdis is a whirlpool opposite Scylla's cave
"... several keyboarding Natty Bumppos of my acquaintance" -- James Fenimore Cooper's The Leatherstocking Tales
The title of the essay "Grand Allusion" --a play on "Grand Illusion," a 1937 French war film directed by Jean Renoir
Lead a discussion about the experience of identifying the above allusions. Compare the pride of knowing, or at least being being familiar with, one or more, versus the experience of searching for the phrase online. Ask: What is the difference between relying on Google versus your own memory of favorite books, movies or plays? Is this distinction relevant today for most people, do you think?
Next, ask students to discuss this idea from today's essay:
Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Ask for examples that illustrate the point. You might begin by asking students if they share a love of a certain sports team or musician with a parent or other older person, and the difference, if there is any, between, say, watching live as a famous game unfolded (or listening just as a seminal album was released) versus watching highlights online or downloading an entire music catalog in a single sitting. 
Then use the Scylla and Charybdis allusion from the essay as an example. Ask: Is it enough to know it's a reference to a Greek myth? Or to truly "get" the allusion, do you have to know the story it comes from and what it means?
Next, have students take the New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz, below, alone, in partners or in small groups. 
New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz
1. "I left Dickens World after a couple of days. As a literary experience, it had been pretty thin gruel. But like _________, I wanted more."
2. "More Than Kin, and Less Than _________"
3. "In his previous books the journalist Ron Rosenbaum has tackled big topics - Hitler's evil, Shakespeare's genius - with acuity and irreverence, believing, correctly, that some things are too important to leave to the experts. He's proud of his gonzo amateur status, so much so that you half suspect he has a scarlet '_________' tattooed across his chest, where Superman wore his 'S.'"
4. "Without a Bang or a _________, The School Board Fades Away"
5. "... I've come to think something is _________ in the state of economics. The dismal science, as Thomas Carlyle called it, has been ravaged by the same virus that has corrupted the rest of our national discourse."
6. "Qaddafi might have maneuvered himself into a gilded overseer's role and gifted power to his bespectacled son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, the nice, educated boy who lost it when he realized - The horror! The _________! - that he might have to give up all his toys"
7. "To paraphrase William Carlos Williams, so much _________ upon a Chicago bank." 
8. "Decentralizing the Internet So Big _________ Can't Find You"
9. "Destruction, thy _________ is Bieber."
10. "The Kushner Flap: Much Ado About _________"
11. "Call me, _________" (Please note: In the original, there is no comma; in the Times essay we are quoting here, there is. Read it to see why.)
12. "It was the best of times, it was the _________ of times. O.K., maybe not literally the worst, but definitely bad."
Have students share their findings and check their answers, then discuss the meaning and source, including, again, whether they knew it or looked it up. Students might then look up the original and explain its context, then relate it to the allusion. This can be done independently or in groups.
Going Further | There are several options to extend this lesson:
 Every edition of The New York Times is full of allusions. Challenge teams to find and list as many as they possibly can as they read articles that interest them. Then, have them read the After Deadline column "Allusions We Love Too Much" on the line between allusion and cliche. Which, if any, of the allusions they found do they believe have been overused enough to become cliches? Why?
 Though this lesson has mostly dealt with literary allusions, students will likely bring up the dizzying ways in which artists across categories remix, reuse, update and mash-up material today, from musicians who "sample" bits of other music in their pieces to new versions of Jane Austen and Shakespeare to advertising that references or remakes cultural touchstones. Have them do a version of the Allusion Hunting activity above, but with the whole world as fair game: how many "allusions" can they spot in one day? (Use our lesson plan Remix, Reuse, Recombine: Holding a Seminar on Mash-Up Culture for more help.)
 Ask students to write an original essay on a topic unrelated to allusions, planting as many allusions as they can. Or, they can retrofit an old essay, sewing in references. Have them read one another's work, identifying and discussing the allusions and weighing in on whether each one "works" or seems tacked on for the sake of the assignment. Have them incorporate a response to this sentence from today's article: "Unlike most tricks, the allusion triumphs only when people know precisely how it is done."
 Have students read the Frank O'Hara poem "The Day Lady Died," which is mentioned in the article. Have them identify the references and then address Ms. Samet's description of her students' responses to it. They can write a reaction essay or write a poem of their own in the style of O'Hara's.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards):
Art Connections
1. Understands connections among the various art forms and other disciplines.
Theater
5. Understands how informal and formal theater, film, television, and electronic media productions create and communicate meaning.
6. Understands the context in which theater, film, television and electronic media are performed today as well as in the past.
Historical Understanding
1. Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns.
 2. Understands the historical perspective.
Language Arts
1. Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
 2. Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
 3. Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written compositions.
 4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
 5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
 6. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of literary texts.
 7. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of informational texts.
 8. Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes.
 9. Uses viewing skills and strategies to understand and interpret visual media.
New York Times Literary Allusion Quiz answers: 
1. Oliver Twist, alluding to the character in Charles Dickens's novel of the same name (from a 2012 article, "The World of Charles Dickens, Complete With Pizza Hut").
2. Kind, alluding to a line in Shakespeare's "Hamlet" (The headline was for a 2011 Opinon piece about the News of the World scandal.)
3. "A," alluding to Nathaniel Hawthorne's "The Scarlet Letter" (from "Thinking the Unthinkable Again in a Nuclear Age," a 2011 book review).
4. Whimper, alluding to T.S. Eliot's "The Hollow Men" (from this 2002 article).
5. rotten, alluding to Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from "The Politics of Economics in the Age of Shouting," a 2011 Op-Ed).
6. horror, alluding to Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" (from a 2011 Op-Ed, "The Price of Delusion").
7. depends, alluding to Williams's poem, "The Red Wheel Barrow" (from a 2007 Business article, "Chicago Is Major Battleground for ABN Amro Bid War").
8. Brother, alluding to George Orwell's "1984" (from a2011 New York Region article).
9. name, alluding to "Frailty, thy name is woman," from, yep, Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from a 2009 piece, "20-Year-Old Fogy Cedes Audience to 15-Year-Old").
10. Nothing, alluding to the Shakespearean play of the same name (from a 2011 Opinion piece by Stanley Fish).
11. Ishmael, alluding to the first line of Herman Melville's "Moby Dick" (the ).
12. worst, alluding to the first line of Charles Dickens's "Tale of Two Cities" (from "The Banks Are Not All Right," a 2009 Op-Ed).

        
2011 Nobel Prize Winners Announced
        
Figuratively Speaking: Exploring How Metaphors Make Meaning
        
To What Writer Would You Award a Prize?
        
10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature
        
Teaching 'The Lord of the Flies' With The New York Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); LITERARY CRITICISM (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%) allusions; figurative language; Literature; Academic Skills; Art as a Reflection of Society; Drama; Fiction; Fine Arts; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literacy Skills; Literary Analysis; Nonfiction; Poetry

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%); ANGELINA JOLIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



374 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2347 words

HEADLINE: It's All an Allusion: Identifying Allusions, in Literature and in Life

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE, KATHERINE SCHULTEN and HOLLY OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson | What is an allusion? In this lesson, students read an essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 

 BODY:
Overview | What is an allusion? How often do you spot them, whether in your reading, in pop culture, in advertising or anywhere else? In this lesson, students read a Book Review essay about allusions in literature, take a quiz in which they identify allusions made in New York Times articles and headlines, then choose from a variety of activities to go deeper. 
Materials | Computers with Internet access and printing capability.
Warm-Up | Ask students to define "allusion." Check that they understand it as a "brief, usually indirect reference to another place, event" or to words spoken by or that depict a person or fictional character. Give a few common examples, like someone being described as a "Romeo," an allusion to Shakespeare's romantic but doomed tragic hero, or a person saying, "I never thought I'd move back to my hometown, but I guess deep down, I'm a Dorothy," alluding to the "Wizard of Oz" character who learns "there's no place like home." You can also ask what is meant by calling a group of women "the real housewives of [name of your city or town]" and asking the source (wealthy, drama-prone women who have a similar look to those seen on the "Real Housewives" franchise). Ask, what would you expect if I called a certain boy an Edward? What about a Jacob? (main characters of the "Twilight" book and movie series). Have students name more allusions, explaining their meanings and sources.
Then, lead a discussion about the pros and cons of making allusions. Pros might include conveying much information in a single word or two or bonding over a shared interest in the source. Cons include allusions only making sense to those who know the source material or, in the case of pop culture phenomena, losing their meaning as time passes. To prove this, ask students to describe a "Jeannie Bueller," or an "Eddie Haskell." Then ask colleagues in their 40's or 50's the same question to share the answers: a jealous sister who has a wildly popular brother (from "Ferris Bueller's Day Off"), and a sycophant who is overly polite to adults for his own gain ("Leave It to Beaver").
End by turning the tables on yourself and your colleagues, having students ask you to explain allusions to things that most in their peer group will understand immediately but might not be so clear to those being asked. Or, have them brainstorm allusions today that most would understand ("Brangelina," for example), but that may be impenetrable twenty-five years from now.
Related | In the essay "Grand Allusion," Elizabeth D. Samet writes about the pleasures and perils of this literary device:
Allusion can feel like something of a parlor game even in the best of times. In the 1940s, in a discussion of T. S. Eliot's densely allusive poem "The Waste Land," the formalist critics William K. Wimsatt and Monroe C. Beardsley questioned prevailing assumptions about the value of allusion-hunting. Eschewing the role of literary detective, they rejected the notion that we "do not know what a poet means unless we have traced him in his reading." "Eliot's allusions work," they argued in "The Intentional Fallacy," "when we know them - and to a great extent even when we do not know them, through their suggestive power. . . . It would not much matter if Eliot invented his sources," as Walter Scott and Coleridge had done. Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
Why do allusions that fail to convey their intended meaning or are not understood by the audience "leave us all exposed," as Ms. Samet contends?
        
How is the "Vronsky's horse" anecdote an example of this?
        
Why does the classroom have "its own special dangers" when it comes to allusions?
        
How, according to the essay, has the Internet affected people's abilities to use and verify allusions?
        
How does your experiences with allusions support or challenge the author's statement that "In trying to illuminate an allusion in class, I sometimes feel as if I'm opening one nesting doll after another until there's nothing left at all."
Related resources:
Activity | Begin by having students reread the article, finding the unexplained allusions it contains. Have them identify the sources, marking "K" for those they already knew and therefore recognized immediately, "I" for those they found via Internet searching, and "O" for other, meaning that they found the source in some other way, whether asking other people, looking in books, or even just guessing.
The allusions include:
"I was reminded that each unhappy allusion is unhappy in its own way." -Leo Tolstoy, 
"Don't make it sad, Cricket, I don't feel that way." -- Ernest Hemingway, "To Have and Have Not" and the 1944 film adaptation
"Gimme a whiskey. . . . And don't be stingy, baby." -- Eugene O'Neill's play "Anna Christie"
"Bastard Normans, Norman bastards." -- William Shakespeare, "The Life of King Henry the Fifth"
"Scylla of the swindle to the Charybdis of condescension" -- Greek mythology: Scylla is a sea creature who devours sailors and Charybdis is a whirlpool opposite Scylla's cave
"... several keyboarding Natty Bumppos of my acquaintance" -- James Fenimore Cooper's The Leatherstocking Tales
The title of the essay "Grand Allusion" --a play on "Grand Illusion," a 1937 French war film directed by Jean Renoir
Lead a discussion about the experience of identifying the above allusions. Compare the pride of knowing, or at least being being familiar with, one or more, versus the experience of searching for the phrase online. Ask: What is the difference between relying on Google versus your own memory of favorite books, movies or plays? Is this distinction relevant today for most people, do you think?
Next, ask students to discuss this idea from today's essay:
Wimsatt and Beardsley's warning that identifying an allusion does not amount to the same thing as understanding its significance has renewed urgency in the current age of allusion-automation, for if the Web makes it that much easier for the allusion-hunter to bag his quarry, it does not necessarily tell him how to dress it.
Ask for examples that illustrate the point. You might begin by asking students if they share a love of a certain sports team or musician with a parent or other older person, and the difference, if there is any, between, say, watching live as a famous game unfolded (or listening just as a seminal album was released) versus watching highlights online or downloading an entire music catalog in a single sitting. 
Then use the Scylla and Charybdis allusion from the essay as an example. Ask: Is it enough to know it's a reference to a Greek myth? Or to truly "get" the allusion, do you have to know the story it comes from and what it means?
Next, have students take the New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz, below, alone, in partners or in small groups. 
New York Times Literary Allusions Quiz
1. "I left Dickens World after a couple of days. As a literary experience, it had been pretty thin gruel. But like _________, I wanted more."
2. "More Than Kin, and Less Than _________"
3. "In his previous books the journalist Ron Rosenbaum has tackled big topics - Hitler's evil, Shakespeare's genius - with acuity and irreverence, believing, correctly, that some things are too important to leave to the experts. He's proud of his gonzo amateur status, so much so that you half suspect he has a scarlet '_________' tattooed across his chest, where Superman wore his 'S.'"
4. "Without a Bang or a _________, The School Board Fades Away"
5. "... I've come to think something is _________ in the state of economics. The dismal science, as Thomas Carlyle called it, has been ravaged by the same virus that has corrupted the rest of our national discourse."
6. "Qaddafi might have maneuvered himself into a gilded overseer's role and gifted power to his bespectacled son Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, the nice, educated boy who lost it when he realized - The horror! The _________! - that he might have to give up all his toys"
7. "To paraphrase William Carlos Williams, so much _________ upon a Chicago bank." 
8. "Decentralizing the Internet So Big _________ Can't Find You"
9. "Destruction, thy _________ is Bieber."
10. "The Kushner Flap: Much Ado About _________"
11. "Call me, _________" (Please note: In the original, there is no comma; in the Times essay we are quoting here, there is. Read it to see why.)
12. "It was the best of times, it was the _________ of times. O.K., maybe not literally the worst, but definitely bad."
Have students share their findings and check their answers, then discuss the meaning and source, including, again, whether they knew it or looked it up. Students might then look up the original and explain its context, then relate it to the allusion. This can be done independently or in groups.
Going Further | There are several options to extend this lesson:
 Every edition of The New York Times is full of allusions. Challenge teams to find and list as many as they possibly can as they read articles that interest them. Then, have them read the After Deadline column "Allusions We Love Too Much" on the line between allusion and cliche. Which, if any, of the allusions they found do they believe have been overused enough to become cliches? Why?
 Though this lesson has mostly dealt with literary allusions, students will likely bring up the dizzying ways in which artists across categories remix, reuse, update and mash-up material today, from musicians who "sample" bits of other music in their pieces to new versions of Jane Austen and Shakespeare to advertising that references or remakes cultural touchstones. Have them do a version of the Allusion Hunting activity above, but with the whole world as fair game: how many "allusions" can they spot in one day? (Use our lesson plan Remix, Reuse, Recombine: Holding a Seminar on Mash-Up Culture for more help.)
 Ask students to write an original essay on a topic unrelated to allusions, planting as many allusions as they can. Or, they can retrofit an old essay, sewing in references. Have them read one another's work, identifying and discussing the allusions and weighing in on whether each one "works" or seems tacked on for the sake of the assignment. Have them incorporate a response to this sentence from today's article: "Unlike most tricks, the allusion triumphs only when people know precisely how it is done."
 Have students read the Frank O'Hara poem "The Day Lady Died," which is mentioned in the article. Have them identify the references and then address Ms. Samet's description of her students' responses to it. They can write a reaction essay or write a poem of their own in the style of O'Hara's.
Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards):
Art Connections
1. Understands connections among the various art forms and other disciplines.
Theater
5. Understands how informal and formal theater, film, television, and electronic media productions create and communicate meaning.
6. Understands the context in which theater, film, television and electronic media are performed today as well as in the past.
Historical Understanding
1. Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns.
 2. Understands the historical perspective.
Language Arts
1. Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
 2. Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
 3. Uses grammatical and mechanical conventions in written compositions.
 4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
 5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
 6. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of literary texts.
 7. Uses skills and strategies to read a variety of informational texts.
 8. Uses listening and speaking strategies for different purposes.
 9. Uses viewing skills and strategies to understand and interpret visual media.
New York Times Literary Allusion Quiz answers: 
1. Oliver Twist, alluding to the character in Charles Dickens's novel of the same name (from a 2012 article, "The World of Charles Dickens, Complete With Pizza Hut").
2. Kind, alluding to a line in Shakespeare's "Hamlet" (The headline was for a 2011 Opinon piece about the News of the World scandal.)
3. "A," alluding to Nathaniel Hawthorne's "The Scarlet Letter" (from "Thinking the Unthinkable Again in a Nuclear Age," a 2011 book review).
4. Whimper, alluding to T.S. Eliot's "The Hollow Men" (from this 2002 article).
5. rotten, alluding to Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from "The Politics of Economics in the Age of Shouting," a 2011 Op-Ed).
6. horror, alluding to Joseph Conrad's "Heart of Darkness" (from a 2011 Op-Ed, "The Price of Delusion").
7. depends, alluding to Williams's poem, "The Red Wheel Barrow" (from a 2007 Business article, "Chicago Is Major Battleground for ABN Amro Bid War").
8. Brother, alluding to George Orwell's "1984" (from a2011 New York Region article).
9. name, alluding to "Frailty, thy name is woman," from, yep, Shakespeare's "Hamlet" again (from a 2009 piece, "20-Year-Old Fogy Cedes Audience to 15-Year-Old").
10. Nothing, alluding to the Shakespearean play of the same name (from a 2011 Opinion piece by Stanley Fish).
11. Ishmael, alluding to the first line of Herman Melville's "Moby Dick" (the ).
12. worst, alluding to the first line of Charles Dickens's "Tale of Two Cities" (from "The Banks Are Not All Right," a 2009 Op-Ed).

        
2011 Nobel Prize Winners Announced
        
Figuratively Speaking: Exploring How Metaphors Make Meaning
        
To What Writer Would You Award a Prize?
        
10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature
        
Teaching 'The Lord of the Flies' With The New York Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); LITERARY CRITICISM (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%) allusions; figurative language; Literature; Academic Skills; Art as a Reflection of Society; Drama; Fiction; Fine Arts; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literacy Skills; Literary Analysis; Nonfiction; Poetry

PERSON: BRAD PITT (50%); ANGELINA JOLIE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



375 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: For This College Sport, the Playing Field Is a Boardroom

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: At the first Wall Street Training Valuation Case Competition, 25 teams of elite business students and undergraduates competed to be top Wall Street deal makers. 

 BODY:
Late last week, in a shadowy Manhattan boardroom, 16 deal makers gathered to lay the groundwork for multibillion-dollar deals that would move the markets - if only they were real.
At the first Wall Street Training Valuation Case Competition, aspiring moguls turned synergies into sport, in a deal simulation contest that was equal parts "American Idol" and "Glengarry Glen Ross."
Wall Street Training, a company that teaches corporate finance to budding bankers and regulators, originally conceived of the event last year as a friendly way to determine top talent for clients. It has since expanded it into a three-round gantlet, in which 25 teams of elite business students and undergraduates are winnowed down to four that competed in last week's finals at the New York offices of Oppenheimer, the investment bank.
"Finance is a team sport," said Ted Michaels, Wall Street Training's vice president for strategic development. "We're trying to find the next generation of superstars in the financial services industry."
During the competition, each team had 20 minutes to pitch to a panel of judges their analysis on a company in one of five sectors: oil and gas, health care, real estate, clean technology or financial services. The groups were expected to assess the value of the business, identify potential growth and risk factors and propose possible strategic alternatives for the company, including mergers, acquisitions and spinoffs.
The lineup of participants filled out the tropes of a classic rumble. There were underdogs (Rutgers), blue bloods (Princeton), West Coasters (University of San Francisco) and an overseas contingent (four Chinese students who had met during an exchange program at Tulane, three of whom were flown in from China for the competition).
Rutgers kicked off the competition with its case for Transocean, the offshore drilling company. The team proposed Halliburton and BP as potential suitors, discussed possible synergies and settled on a best-case outcome: an acquisition by BP for $24.16 billion, or $50 a share. In the real stock market, Transocean closed at $48.87 that day. The team then faced questions from the judges, investment bankers and private equity investors who grilled them about litigation risks and regulatory concerns.
Four sophomores at Princeton studying economics and finance presented a discounted cash flow model and made a pitch for First Solar, a maker of solar panels, to be acquired by General Electric in an all-stock deal. Judges questioned whether First Solar could stand up to overseas competition. They also wondered whether G.E. would shy away from such a deal given the recent flap surrounding Solyndra, a solar components maker that filed for bankruptcy last year and became a political lightning rod.
The Tulane-via-Shanghai team pegged the intrinsic value of their chosen company - Chesapeake Energy Corporation, the natural gas giant - at $28.99 to $38.66 a share. They conveyed some risks of a deal, but pitched a $3.2 billion acquisition of RPC, an energy services company.
A team from the University of San Francisco put forth a situation involving PulteGroup, a large home-building company. The team members said that with the housing market stuck in the mud, the company needed a drastic change to avoid running out of cash.
"Not only is Pulte a sell," one member said, "it should sell itself."
The San Francisco team said that an ideal buyer would be Sekisui House, the Japanese home builder that has been looking to increase its American presence.
After the final presentation, judges deliberated for several minutes inside the boardroom, leaving the participants outside in a nervous scrum.
Lori Raineri, a member of the San Francisco team who, by day, works as the president of Government Financial Strategies, a financial consulting firm based in Sacramento, said that she and her teammates had formed as a business school study group and practiced for the competition over conference calls. The team, Ms. Raineri said, had been excited to fly to New York for the event, and had spent several days touring sights like the Empire State Building.
"The trip to New York was the prize," she said. "I feel like we've already won."
When the judges emerged, the event's organizer gathered all the contestants and their supporters and announced the champions, the Tulane exchange-student team. The team members - Bo Yuan, Bohua Liu, Feifan Qiang and Luo Xue - collected their prizes: an oversize check for $1,000 and financial calculators.
"Very cool," one contestant said, eying a winner's calculator with the quiet envy of a runner-up.
Because of incorrect caption information, a photo caption in an earlier version of this post misidentified Hamilton Lin, Wall Street Trading's chief executive, as one of the Tulane exchange students.
An earlier version of this post misspelled the name of two students on the winning team. They are Feifan Qiang, not Fiefan Qiang, and Luo Xue, not Xuo.

        
S.E.C. Reaches Settlement in Bear Stearns Fraud Case
        
Royal Bank of Scotland Slashes C.E.O.'s Bonus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); DIVESTITURES (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); MERGERS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); LITIGATION (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (65%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (64%) Princeton University; Rutgers; Tulane; University of San Francisco; Wall Street; Wall Street Training; Colleges and Universities; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey; Tulane University; Wall Street (NYC); Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); SOLYNDRA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%) Princeton University; Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey; Tulane University; University of San Francisco

TICKER: CHK (NYSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); EAST CHINA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%) Wall Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



376 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1843 words

HEADLINE: Harnessing Local Pride for Global Conservation

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: A conservation initiative that uses strategies to change behavior locally to protect ecosystems is having an impact worldwide. 

 BODY:
The toughest problems to solve are the ones that are hard to detect and require humans to change their behavior. That puts conservation at the top of the list. According to the World Conservation Union, some 40 percent of the more than 40,000 species it tracks on its Red List of Threatened Species are in danger of becoming extinct. The renowned biologist E.O. Wilson has written that the "loss of genetic and species diversity by the destruction of natural habitats" is a more serious risk than energy depletion, economic collapse or even limited nuclear war. "As terrible as these catastrophes would be for us, they can be repaired within a few generations," he observed more than 30 years ago. The loss of biodiversity "will take millions of years to correct," he added. "This is the folly our descendants are least likely to forgive us."
Over the past few generations, conservation groups have spent billions of dollars on scientific research, land purchase, policy change and education to address these threats. But one question that has received little attention is: How do we get people to change their behavior? What really works?

In recent years, psychologists, economists and neuroscientists have shed light on these questions. Their ideas have attracted popular interest, but haven't changed the way most conservation organizations work. Only a tiny percentage of the money spent on conservation is focused on changing behavior. And we know that public education is not enough.
Since people to change is usually politically problematic, it makes sense to think more about this challenge. That's why I'm focusing today on a modest size organization called Rare, which may have one of the most critical, and underappreciated, social technologies to protect ecosystems and biodiversity. They call it the "Pride Campaign": it is a methodical, well-honed approach to social marketing that has been replicated by diverse groups more than 200 times around the world - with some remarkable success stories. Rare has developed an accredited two-year Masters Degree in Communication for conservationists, which is taught in the United States, Mexico, Indonesia and China.
"You read the headlines about climate change or ocean acidification or species extinctions or overfishing, and you see that each of these are borne of human behaviors," explains Brett Jenks, Rare's chief executive. "We are the problem and therefore we need to be the solution."
Consider the problem of overfishing and the work of Cathy Demesa, one of Rare's conservation fellows, based in The Philippines. When we think of overfishing, we imagine trawlers in the open seas. But in many parts of the world half the fish are caught by independent fishers in tiny boats who typically operate within a few miles of shore (pdf, p. 10). Many of these artisanal fisheries are in trouble, notes Steve Gaines, Dean of the Bren School of Environmental Science and Management at the University of California, Santa Barbara. In particular, he points to Central America and the Pacific Isles - where he estimates that the average fishery is 50 percent below its optimal fishing threshold - a level that scientists consider dangerous.
Demesa works for an environmental organization in a coastal municipality called Tinambac, located in the southeastern part of Luzon, where most households rely on the fish industry for their livelihoods. Back in the 1960s, fishermen caught 10 kilograms of lobster or fish each day using hooks, lines, nets and spears. In songs, they described their home as a paradise.
Over the years, fishers seeking to increase their catches began using fine-mesh nets (which catch small fish), as well as cyanide and dynamite (to stun or kill fish en masse). These practices led to a cratering of the local fish supply, as well as damage to the marine ecosystem. In recent years, the average catch plummeted to two kilograms per day, yielding a subsistence wage.
Like many fishing communities in crisis, the local government established a marine sanctuary. One of the proven strategies to restore a fishery is to establish a sanctuary in which local residents gain exclusive fishing rights in exchange for respecting "no-take zones," where fish stocks can replenish. (When fish are allowed to mature, they spawn many more eggs.)
And as with many sanctuaries around the world, locals lacked the unity and commitment to enforce it. Commercial fishermen paid off people to continue their practices. About 90 percent of local fishers participated in illegal fishing, said Demesa. To fix these problems, she contacted Rare to learn how to conduct a Pride Campaign.
The idea of the Pride Campaign originated on the island of St. Lucia, where in 1977, a visionary conservationist named Paul Butler, fresh out of university, was asked by the head of the country's forestry department, to save the St. Lucia Parrot, which was fast approaching extinction.
Butler believed that the government needed to establish a sanctuary for the parrot and institute tough penalties - but there was not enough public support to make it happen. He got the idea to launch a campaign, with government support, to tap the islanders' sense of pride. He created a parrot mascot - Jacquot - and got volunteers to dress up in colorful costumes and visit schools. He printed T-shirts, created puppet shows, commissioned children's magazines, encouraged hotels to print bumper stickers, convinced a popular band to record a song about the parrot, and asked ministers to quote Bible verses about good stewardship. The campaign took off, the government passed the laws, and the parrot was saved. Today, the parrot population is estimated at 1,700, according to the Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust and St. Lucia's forestry department. Later, Butler repeated the experience in St. Vincent.
Demesa used a similar blueprint. Working with local leaders, she came up with the campaign slogan "This is Ours," she created a mascot, Agcaton, a red grouper, and spread the word through T-shirts, posters, school uniforms and - most effective - six jingles, which told the story of the fishery - how abundant it once was and how joyful people will be when it is again.
People came together. The government decided to pay for a guard house, a 24/7 patrol boat, and offer stipends to local fishermen who enforced two no take zones. Many of the same people who once fished illegally today serve as "fish wardens."
It led to a turnaround. "Now 83 percent of the fishers say they no longer fish inside the no take zones," Demesa told me. Sixty percent of fishers have observed an increase in their catch and the seaweed harvest has increased 20 percent. "It taught everybody that the solution is in their hands," she added. Demesa has been invited by five neighboring municipalities to replicate pride campaigns. Word has spread further. Across The Philippines alone, Rare received more than 100 requests for campaigns, a sharp increase.
Over the years, Rare has refined its methodology and applied it to numerous conservation threats. Pride campaigns have been used to protect Siberian Tigers in China and spiny lobsters in the Bahamas. One campaign led to the creation of an 895,000 acre national marine park in Indonesia's Togean Islands; another produced a marked reduction in forest fires in Mexico's Sierra de Manantlan Biosphere Reserve.
Conservation fellows who go through Rare's two year training are exposed to solutions pioneered by many others around the world. This is vital because it generates ideas about how to remove the barriers that most often behavior change.
When you're asking people to stop doing something that they count on for survival, you need to offer a realistic alternative. That's a core component of Rare's training. Consider a problem that is widespread in mountainous regions of South America. Farmers at higher altitudes often clear cloud forests for cultivation and, consequentially, destroy the watershed for farmers downstream. One idea is to create reciprocal agreements in which downstream farmers compensate upstream farmers for preserving the watershed. Pride campaigns in conjunction with this approach have worked in multiple sites across the Andes. "You have to create win-win relationships," explains Butler. "If people don't see a benefit they're not going to change behavior."
Until 2010, Rare, whose budget is about $16 million today, responded to conservation needs in a scattershot way. Then Jenks and his colleagues asked: What if they could advance 500 pride campaigns all targeting one theme -- say, sustainable artisanal fisheries? Could it tip the world? A billion people depend on fish for their primary source of protein. If overfishing continues in thousands of small-scale fisheries, it could become a global humanitarian crisis.
Now, they're testing the idea. This fall, Rare organized an online Solution Search which elicited 103 ideas for managing sustainable fisheries from 48 countries. This week, they received a boost in the form of a $20 million challenge grant from the Robert W. Wilson Charitable Trust. Rare has also sharpened its focus on global hot-spots, such as the Coral Triangle, an area encompassing The Philippines, Malaysia and most of Indonesia, and Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, which contains more than half of the world's coral reefs and 75 percent of all coral species.
The big question is whether Rare can speed up its training and still maintain quality. There are thousands of conservation groups that could benefit from its social marketing insights. A study of 130 community-managed fisheries published in 2010 in the journal Nature reported that the most important quality for success was local leadership.
By the end of this year, Rare will have 50 campaign sites across the Coral Triangle. Some will work; some won't. "There's a bell curve," says Butler. "Some issues are easier to tackle than others. But the majority succeed. And the key isn't what they achieve in the first two years - it's what the fellows continue to do." More than half of Rare's alumni launch and fund additional campaigns on their own. That's what Demesa plans to do.
"There are many communities that have solved their problems," says Jenks. "We have a huge opportunity to take what's working and make it widely available so that others can adapt it to meet their own needs."
Butler adds: "And let's not forget the power that emotions have in driving behavior."
(Note: For those who are interested in ideas about ways to fight climate change using new insights into behavior change, check out this initiative from the Garrison Institute.)
An earlier version of this article misstated the percentage of species in danger of extinction as reported by the World Conservation Union. It is 40 percent of the species on the Red List of Threatened Species, not 40 percent of all species.

        
Ethical Businesses With a Better Bottom Line
        
A Scorecard for Companies With a Conscience
        
Experiments in Field Philosophy
        
'Last Generation?': A Response
        
The Calm, Cool and Collected President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); FISHERIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); ACCREDITATION (67%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) conservation; Environment; fisheries; Biodiversity; Endangered and Extinct Species; Fishing, Commercial; Philippines; St Lucia; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD CONSERVATION UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF NATURE & NATURAL RESOURCES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILIPPINES (90%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Philippines; St Lucia

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



377 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: The Worst Transportation Bill

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
New data shows that New York City students at small, specialized high schools are more likely to graduate than students in large, traditional high schools.
Greece's three main creditors - the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund - are wrong to combine legitimate demands for market reforms with destructive demands for austerity measures.
Republicans have hijacked the $260 billion transportation bill.
The House has struck two vital provisions from the Senate's ban on insider trading.

        
The Dark Art of Legislative Hostage Taking
        
What Are the Germans Thinking?
        
Pass the STOCK Act: It's Beyond a No-Brainer
        
Opinion Report: The Payroll Tax Cut Deal
        
Have You Heard the Bad News?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); HIJACKING (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (86%); INSIDER TRADING (86%); DEBT CRISIS (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%); HOSTAGE TAKING (84%) European debt crisis; STOCK Act; Transportation; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Insider Trading

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); GREECE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



378 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Reaches Settlement in Bear Stearns Fraud Case

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The deal with two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers averts a second trial over charges that they had misled investors. 

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission has reached a settlement with two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers that will avert a second trial over accusations that they had misled investors as the mortgage market was crumbling.
The deal, which is subject to court approval, could be announced on Monday, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.
A trial was set to begin on Monday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. The former Bear executives, Ralph R. Cioffi and Matthew M. Tannin, were accused of lying to investors about the health of their hedge funds, which were laden with complex securities backed by subprime mortgages. 
 The settlement comes just as federal authorities have publicly vowed to redouble their efforts to hold Wall Street executives responsible for questionable conduct during the housing boom.
A civil trial would have been the second trial against the former Bear executives. The Justice Department and the S.E.C. brought parallel criminal and civil charges against Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin in 2008.
The criminal case was viewed as an early test of the government's ability to win convictions tied to the subprime mortgage-related investments that banks sold during the housing boom.
When a jury acquitted both men in November 2009, the loss was seen as a major setback for the the Justice Department. The not-guilty verdict demonstrated that it would be challenging to build successful cases against Wall Street executives at the center of the financial crisis.
Battered by criticism that it had been an ineffective regulator before the financial crisis, the S.E.C. maintained that it would continue to pursue its case. But some legal specialists questioned whether it made any sense for the commission to take the lawsuit to trial.
 "The government clearly had the power to do this, but the more salient question is whether this was the best use of their resources," said Daniel L. Zelenko, a partner at Crowell & Moring and a former S.E.C. lawyer. "More than two years after a jury has already acquitted on substantially the same set of facts, it's not clear that it was."
Bear's hedge funds were among the first prominent collapses related to the bursting of the housing bubble. When the mortgage market first became unglued in 2007, the two investment vehicles failed and investors lost $1.8 billion. The demise of the funds heralded the coming calamity on Wall Street.
Lawyers for Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin declined to comment, as did an S.E.C. spokesman.
One crucial issue that remains unclear is whether the two men will acknowledge any misconduct. Judges and legal commentators have criticized the commission for not forcing defendants to admit any wrongdoing when settling.
In recent weeks, there has been a flurry of activity in government investigations stemming from the financial crisis. Last week, federal prosecutors in Manhattan brought criminal charges against three former Credit Suisse traders, accusing them of inflating the value of their mortgage-bond portfolios to secure higher bonuses. Two of the traders have pleaded guilty.
During his State of the Union address last month, President Obama announced the formation of a multiagency financial crimes unit to prosecute mortgage-related fraud cases.
Robert S. Khuzami, the head of enforcement for the S.E.C., has said that the commission has already issued scores of subpoenas, analyzed more than 25 million pages of documents and interviewed scores of witnesses involved in the mortgage securities market.
"These mortgage products suffered unprecedented losses, and the pain and loss that followed is known all too well," said Mr. Khuzami, speaking about the new unit at a news conference last month. "The job of the S.E.C. and my fellow law enforcement colleagues is to hold accountable those persons, those institutions who lied, who cheated and who misled investors in the sale of these products."
Criminal defense lawyers have expressed concern over the creation of yet another task force, as this latest one follows several others that the government has formed since the financial crisis.
"We must distinguish what is criminal from what is reckless behavior and bad business decisions and not bow to the frenzy," said Mary Jo White, a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton and former United States attorney in Manhattan, speaking on a panel on Wednesday. "You don't want the search for scalps to be the metric for success," she said.
Taking Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin to trial would have been risky for the S.E.C. It is highly unusual for the agency to try defendants in a civil case after a jury has acquitted them in a criminal trial.
"A loss would have called into question the government's apparent strategy of leaning heavily on civil litigation to handle crisis-related misconduct," said Neil M. Barofsky, a law professor at New York University and former inspector general of the Treasury Department's bank bailout program. "And a poor trial performance could seriously have undermined the S.E.C.'s ability to achieve settlements in other cases."
Mr. Tannin and Mr. Cioffi also had an incentive to settle, said several lawyers, because of the government's lower burden of proof in a civil securities fraud trial. Federal prosecutors needed to prove their case "beyond a reasonable doubt," but the S.E.C. would have needed to prove only "by a preponderance of the evidence" that the defendants knowingly defrauded their investors.
Mr. Cioffi, once a highly regarded bond salesman at Bear, embodied the emergence of esoteric mortgage investment products as a dominant producer of Wall Street profits. He developed a specialty in structured finance securities, and in 2003, the bank put him in charge of a new hedge fund that would raise money from outside investors. He brought in Mr. Tannin, another Bear executive, as his partner.
The strategy of the fund was to invest in AAA-rated securities that were backed by pools of residential mortgages.
As the housing market boomed, the fund posted strong results. Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin earned millions of dollars. They then raised another fund that promised increased returns by using more borrowed money to invest. The fund with increased leverage borrowed more than $25 for every dollar invested in the fund.
When the housing market seized up in 2007, performance of the funds sank and investors headed for the exits. All the while, the government says, Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin publicly expressed confidence in the funds while privately voicing doubts about the market. By July 2007, the funds imploded.
At the criminal trial, federal prosecutors tried to simplify their case for the jury. Seeking to avoid arcane topics like collateralized debt obligations, credit-default swaps and repurchase agreements, the government focused on the truthfulness of the defendants.
"They did the best thing that they could think of to keep those investors in the fund and with any luck keep their bonuses coming," a prosecutor told the jury in his opening statement. "They lied."
The government's leading evidence were private e-mails that the fund managers sent to each other.
"I think we should close the funds now," Mr. Tannin wrote from a private e-mail account. He said that if certain analysts' reports were correct, "the entire subprime market is toast."
Days later, Mr. Tannin said on an investor call, "we're very comfortable with exactly where we are."
Defense lawyers argued that the two managers were merely debating how to position their portfolio given the market's perilous state.
After a monthlong trial, the jury found the Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin not guilty after deliberating for less than a day. Jurors said at the time that the government had not proved its case.
"The entire market crashed," one juror said. "You can't blame that on two people."

        
S.E.C. Case Against Ex-Bear Managers Set to Proceed
        
2 Jurors Are Rejected for Trial of Ex-Workers at Bear Stearns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MISCONDUCT (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ACQUITTAL (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); JUDGES (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) Bear Stearns; Matthew Tannin; Ralph Cioffi; Robert S. Khuzami; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Wall Street; Wall Street on Trial; Cioffi, Ralph R Jr; Tannin, Matthew M; Frauds and Swindling; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Securities and Commodities Violations; Bear Stearns Cos; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (92%); CROWELL & MORING LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%) Bear Stearns Cos; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Cioffi, Ralph R Jr; Tannin, Matthew M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



379 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1577 words

HEADLINE: Tables Reserved for the Healthiest

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: Controversy erupts after a retirement community in Virginia excludes residents in assisted living and nursing care from its main dining room. 

 BODY:
Residents at Harbor's Edge, an upscale retirement community in downtown Norfolk, Va., appreciate their gracious dining room, called the River Terrace. They like the country club cuisine, the socializing, the view of ships passing on the Elizabeth River.
Until recently, William Hodges had dinner there every evening with his wife, Betty. Dorothy and Thomas Evans hosted out-of-town guests and celebrated Thanksgiving and Christmas there with their son. Lindsay Bilisoly regularly shared meals there with his parents, Frank and Indie.
For years after Harbor's Edge, a nonprofit facility, opened in 2006, nobody seemed to care that some of these diners occupied independent living units in the high-rise building while others, in need of greater care, lived in assisted living apartments or in the facility's nursing unit.
But last spring, managers declared the River Terrace and two other dining facilities at the community off limits to anyone but independent living residents. Assisted living residents were told to use their own small dining room; nursing residents were restricted to theirs.
Family members were instructed to join them there. But longtime friends -- and several married couples -- who lived in separate parts of the facility could no longer share meals in the main dining room. Those in assisted living or nursing care also were also barred from community events like the Fourth of July celebration.
Charges of discrimination quickly followed the new edict. "We've been excommunicated," said Judith Schapiro, 83, an assisted living resident. "I thought segregation ended in 1954."
Harbor's Edge is not the first retirement facility to enact policies separating sicker or more disabled residents from healthier ones. Questions about how much access and autonomy residents have in such complexes, and who gets to decide, have arisen around the country, said Susan Silverstein, an AARP senior attorney.
An assisted living facility in Colorado attempted to keep walkers and wheelchairs out of a communal dining room; in 1996 a state appeals court ruled that action discriminatory. In San Francisco, an assisted living resident who used a walker sued in 2008 when administrators decreed that she couldn't use the dining room buffet but instead had to be seated for table service. That suit was settled.
In 2006, a woman in an independent living apartment in Palo Alto, Calif., sued administrators at her continuing care retirement community, or C.C.R.C., who insisted she move to assisted living. Her case was settled, as well, as was a similar one in a South Carolina C.C.R.C. the same year.
The growing popularity of this type of retirement village poses particular challenges. In a C.C.R.C., residents are able to graduate to increasingly higher levels of care without the trauma and disruption of moving to a different facility. But that also means these communities serve a population with unusually broad ranges of health and function.
About 1,880 C.C.R.C.'s now house an estimated half a million residents nationwide, said Stephen Maag of LeadingAge, an association of nonprofit elder care providers. About 130 new communities opened across the country from 2002 to 2010, and construction is likely to increase as the economy and the housing market improve, he said.
C.C.R.C.'s occupy a unusual regulatory niche, according to Joani Latimer, Virginia's long-term care ombudsman. The hybrid facilities provide care overseen by different governmental authorities: The nursing home sections are federally regulated, but assisted living units fall under state laws. Independent living units often are regarded simply as local housing.
At Harbor's Edge, the new policy initially stemmed from overcrowding, said Neil Volder, a former real estate developer who built the complex and is its executive director.
Early on, the River Terrace had room for everyone. But by last spring, independent living occupancy hit 95 percent and residents with reservations were sometimes turned away. "People were saying to me, 'You've got to do something,'" he said.
Moreover, managers believed that the policy of letting residents of various degrees of disability dine together violated Virginia state regulations, Mr. Volder said, and left Harbor's Edge vulnerable to lawsuits or revoked licenses.
But Ms. Latimer, the state ombudsman, said in an interview that she could find no statutes setting forth several of the requirements Mr. Volder had mentioned. And other Virginia C.C.R.C.'s have avoided such prohibitions.
"We have no restrictions on where residents or their family members can dine," said Daniel Nimon, vice president at Westminster-Canterbury on Chesapeake Bay, in nearby Virginia Beach, which is also near capacity.
The change at Harbor's Edge caught many residents by surprise, particularly married couples. The Hodgeses had been eating together nightly, though he lived in the nursing unit and she was in independent living. Lindsay Bilisoly sometimes escorted his 90-year-old father, Frank, to dinner with his wife, Indie, 85, who remained in the independent living unit they'd originally moved into together.
"We were a happy community," said Ms. Schapiro, who liked to invite her grown grandchildren for dinner. "We all intermingled. Nobody thought anything about it."
Angry residents and their children called board members to protest the new rules. They sought help from the local ombudsman. They signed and circulated letters. When all that failed, several pooled their resources and hired an elder attorney.
That lawyer, Andrew Hook, believes the new policy violates the federal Fair Housing Act and the Americans With Disabilities Act, as well as Virginia law. "The federal statutes are clear," he said. "You can't discriminate, and the law requires reasonable accommodation" for people with disabilities.
"You don't bar people simply because they have a physical or mental impairment that doesn't interfere with other users or require additional services," said Ms. Silverstein of the AARP Foundation.
Some residents support the new policy, however, including Martha Haycox, 80, past president of the Resident Advisory Council, who took pains to point out that three independent living residents with health problems are also excluded from the dining room, while many who do use it require wheelchairs or walkers.
"It happened to me twice in one week that somebody at the next table threw up," requiring hasty clean-up by the maintenance staff, she said. Another time, she said, someone's wheelchair got tangled in a tablecloth at Sunday brunch and nearly pulled all the food off the buffet table.
"I should be able to have what we call quiet enjoyment," she said.
"It's a very upscale community," said Mr. Volder. "When someone comes in wearing a coat and tie, with guests, they want an ambience of fine dining."
Disgruntled residents acknowledge that their more disabled neighbors might pose safety problems in the dining room or sometimes behave inappropriately. But they want decisions about access to be made on an individual basis.
In December, the Harbor's Edge management offered a compromise. Assisted living residents who originally entered independent living and then transitioned may now seek an assessment determining whether they will be allowed to continue to use the dining room.
The test assigns points in various categories. If a resident is diabetic, can he make "wise menu choices"? Avoid adding salt if he's on a low-salt diet? Residents with nine or fewer points, plus a written physician's order, will be admitted to the dining room (though they will pay an additional fee), but must be reassessed monthly or even weekly.
They still can't use the community's other restaurants, however, and "direct admits" to assisted living or nursing care, like Ms. Schapiro, are out of luck. Nursing care residents remain excluded, period.
So the Bilisoly, Hodges and Evans families still can't meet in the River Terrace for meals. Mrs. Evans herself could seek an assessment, but "I'm not going to play that game," she said. "It's the principle of the thing." The uneasiness some older adults experience when they coexist with those more impaired may be at work here, the protesters believe.
"We've run into this bigotry," said Mike Evans, son of Dorothy and Thomas Evans. "I was told that people were saying, 'We didn't pay all this money to be in the same place with people who are crippled.'"
They also suspect management marketing concerns. "They think it will appeal to newcomers more if they have the impression that the residents here are in better condition than they probably are," said Mr. Hodges, a retired appellate court judge who uses an electric wheelchair.
Mr. Volder denied that and said that dissenters could always move elsewhere: "I'll make it so they get 100 percent of their money back if they're that unhappy," he said.
Lindsay Bilisoly said his father, a retired internist, doesn't want to move. "We love Harbor's Edge," the younger Mr. Bilisoly said. "It's beautiful. The people who take care of my father are awesome."
But the exclusion rankles.
"Ninety-five percent of the time he's perfectly capable of eating dinner," Mr. Bilisoly said. "I can take him to any restaurant in Norfolk or in the state of Virginia, except the one in the building he paid $600,000 to move into."

        
Now, Tables for (Almost) Everyone
        
Limited Mobility of Another Sort
        
On Dining Room Restrictions and More
        
Drinking in Assisted Living
        
Age Discrimination Takes Its Toll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); THANKSGIVING (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); FAMILY (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); CALENDARS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); LITIGATION (69%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (63%); AGING (62%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%) assisted living; ccrc; Discrimination; Disabilities; Elder Care; Retirement Communities and Assisted Living; Give and Take; News & Research

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012



380 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Revival

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, and a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
After sweeping the nominating contests in Colorada, Minnesota and Missouri on Tuesday, Rick Santorum is getting ambitious. Katharine Q. Seelye reports that Mr. Santorum has plans to expand his reinvigorated campaign operation in the hope of becoming the eventual Republican challenger to President Obama, but he faces obstacles, including his rivals' attacks.
For Mitt Romney, the defeats on Tuesday were setbacks that highlighted his vulnerabilities with conservative voters and meant that he will have to focus more on his Republican rivals instead of President Obama as the contest moves to his home state, Michigan, and beyond, Jeff Zeleny writes.
Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Republicans' top negotiator in the upper chamber, is on his way to retirement. But before he can leave, he faces the daunting task of negotiating an extension of the payroll tax cut with President Obama and Democrats, Jonathan Weisman writes.
As White House officials sought Wednesday to defuse tension over an administration rule requiring health insurance plans provided by Roman Catholic universities and charities to offer free birth control to women, Republicans in Congress seized the opportunity to respond forcefully, in an attempt to unite their caucus and drive a wedge among Democrats, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.
The House is expected to pass a bill Thursdayto ban insider trading by members of Congress, despite protests from Democrats that arose after Republicans deleted a provision to regulate "political intelligence," Robert Pear writes. Democrats said they would still support the bill and push for the deleted provision when negotiators meet to work out differences between the House and Senate versions.
A look at the list of nonessential projects added to the budget of the Army Corps of Engineers seems to show that lawmakers have found their way around a self-imposed ban on earmarks, Ron Nixon writes.
Happening in Washington:
Mario Monti, the prime minister of Italy, will give a speech at noon at the Peterson Institute, before meeting with President Obama later in the afternoon at the White House.
At noon, Douglas Elmendorf, the director of the Congressional Budget Office, will discuss the long-term outlook for the federal budget at the National Economists Club.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader; House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio; and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky are among the speakers Thursday at the annual convention of the Conservative Political Action Conference.
Economic data expected includes weekly jobless claims (8:30 a.m.), December wholesale inventories (10) and weekly mortgage rates (10).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (68%); RELIGION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (52%); ARMIES (52%); INSIDER TRADING (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JON KYL (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); RAND PAUL (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



381 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Sinking Sarko

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: French president Nicolas Sarkozy is trailing in the polls behind Socialist candidate Francois Hollande. 

 BODY:
The United States isn't the only country electing a president this year. In a little more than 10 weeks, French voters will decide whether or not to give Nicolas Sarkozy a second five-year term.
Mr. Sarkozy fancies himself one of Europe's most indispensable leaders - the savior of the euro (which is losing credibility by the day), the champion of France's sterling credit rating (which was recently downgraded) the close partner of Germany's Chancellor, Angela Merkel (whose body language always seems to say "please, no closer,").
David C. Unger, who covers Europe for the editorial board, tells me that French voters have a less-than-flattering view of their president and that he has been trailing in the polls for months. Unlike in this country, his competition comes from the left: As the election gets closer, the gap between Mr. Sarkozy and his main rival, Socialist Party candidate Francois Hollande, seems to be widening.
A poll published this week by the French polling organization IFOP/Fiducial showed Mr. Sarkozy 6.5 percentage points behind Mr. Hollande. Two weeks ago weeks Mr. Hollande had only a 4 point lead. Other polls show a similar widening trend. Far more ominously for Mr. Sarkozy, IFOP/Fiducial now shows Mr. Hollande winning the decisive May 6 run-off between the top two finishers by 16 percent (up from 14 percent two weeks ago).
What happened in between was that the hyper-active Mr Sarkozy rolled out a batch of new measures that seem to be going in all directions at once. In an effort to stimulate the economy he reduced an employer-paid payroll tax, but then mopped up most of the stimulus by raising the broad-based value added tax. Better to have left the VAT alone. But that would not have pleased Ms. Merkel, the preacher of balanced budgets, who formally endorsed Mr. Sarkozy last week.
His missteps have not been confined to the economic sphere. He's trying to steal the clothes and the votes of the anti-immigrant National Front with a truly bad idea: Holding referendums on the judicial treatment of foreigners. For now the National Front is hanging strong, so all he's really done is given the left more ammunition.
Mr. Sarkozy got in five years ago mainly because the left deserted Segolene Royale, the third way woman who opposed him. Now his opponent is Ms. Royale's former companion, the father of her children. 
Ten weeks is a long time in politics, and Mr. Sarkozy still has a chance in this race - but he seems headed the wrong way.

        
What Are the Germans Thinking?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TRENDS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); VALUE ADDED TAX (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); IMMIGRATION (60%) Angela Merkel; Francois Hollande; French election; Nicolas Sarkozy; Hollande, Francois; Sarkozy, Nicolas; France

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (95%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (93%); ANGELA MERKEL (75%) Hollande, Francois; Sarkozy, Nicolas

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%) France

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



382 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Giffords's Aide to Run for Seat in Special Election

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Ron Barber, a top aide to retired Representative Gabrielle Giffords, announced on Thursday he would seek Ms. Giffords's vacated Arizona House seat in a special election June 12. 

 BODY:
Ron Barber, a top aide to retired Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was wounded in a shooting that nearly took her life, announced on Thursday that he would seek Ms. Giffords's vacated Arizona House seat in a special election June 12.
"My commitment is to be honest with the people of this district and help restore civility to our public life," said Mr. Barber, who has served as Ms. Giffords's district director in Tucson since her election in 2006. "My first priority won't be the next election - but the next generation."
Mr. Barber's decision came reluctantly and only after wooing both by Ms. Giffords and Representative Steve Israel of New York, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. The gunman who shot Ms. Giffords in the head also shot Mr. Barber twice. He told The Arizona Republic last month that he was still in physical therapy and suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.
In late January, Mr. Israel went to Tucson to try to seal the deal. Over breakfast Jan. 29 in the Congress Hotel, Mr. Israel said he told Mr. Barber, "You've already sacrificed for your community, for your country, and for your congresswoman. I feel awkward asking you to sacrifice again, but you're the one person who can bring this community together."
Mr. Barber asked for the endorsement of Ms. Giffords and her husband, retired astronaut Mark Kelly, and that the field be cleared of other Democrats. When those conditions were met, he called Mr. Israel early this week and told him he would run.
The district has been tough for Democrats since Ms. Giffords put it in the Democratic column in 2006. And Republicans are not likely to cede it to Mr. Barber. Five Republicans, including the Marine veteran, Jesse Kelly, who narrowly lost to Ms. Giffords in 2010, have announced they will seek the seat. The primary election will be April 17.
"No one wanted this special election to happen, but it comes at a time when Arizona and our country are at a critical crossroads. The issues and challenges are too great to deny voters a full debate on which candidate is best to secure our border, create jobs and turn our economy around," said Daniel Scarpinato, spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, in a statement.
But the special election was going to be the tough one for Democrats. After June, a new, redistricted Congressional map goes into force that will make the district more Democratic ahead of the November election. On a conference call with reporters, Mr. Barber said he had not decided whether he would seek the seat then.
"I really haven't made that decision yet. It'd be a little presumptuous of me to think about a second election when I haven't gotten on the ballot or won the election in June."

        
Mark Kelly to Join First Lady for State of the Union
        
Gabrielle Giffords Says She's Leaving the House
        
Another Try for Bipartisanship
        
Gun Raffle in Giffords District Prompts Democrats' Outrage
        
Giffords's Return Marks Moment of Unity in Divided House

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); 2011 TUCSON SHOOTING (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (53%); JOB CREATION (50%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) gabrielle giffords; Giffords, Gabrielle; Tucson Shooting (2011); House of Representatives; Arizona; Elections

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%) House of Representatives

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (95%); STEVE ISRAEL (79%) Giffords, Gabrielle

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Arizona

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



383 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: Rick Perry Jokes About Chrysler's Super Bowl Ad. The Punchline: Obama.

BYLINE: ERIK ECKHOLM


HIGHLIGHT: During remarks in Washington, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas also made a populist appeal, blaming Wall Street for the financial meltdown. 

 BODY:
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, in the course of a powerfully delivered indictment of the Obama administration, managed to slip in a response to that Chrysler ad that ran during the Super Bowl, called "It's Half-time in America," in which Clint Eastwood extolled the recovery of the auto industry. 
"This country can't be knocked out with one punch," Mr. Eastwood says, closing with "our second half is about to begin."
Democrats seized on the commercial as an endorsement of bailouts, while Republicans called it a partisan payback from the industry to President Obama. Mr. Eastwood and Chrysler said that the ad was meant to be an inspirational message, not a political statement.
Mr. Perry drew chuckles from the audience at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington when he said: "I'm fearful of what the final score is going to be if we let this president start the second half."
Reflecting a strand of conservatism that can sound almost like Occupy Wall Street, Mr. Perry struck a populist note in his speech, saying that a Washington-Wall Street cabal had created the housing crisis and devastating recession. The dire effects were not visited upon the banks and executives that caused the disaster, he said, but "you and me, the average American, Main Street."
"We inherited the worst financial mess this nation has ever seen," he said. "We need to clean up the corruption from K street to Wall Street so they can't ever gamble with our children's future again." 

        
Bachmann Assails Obama Before Conservatives
        
Rubio Receives Warm Reception at CPAC
        
The Fund-Raising Rise and Fall of Rick Perry
        
Debates Aren't to Blame for Perry's Failure
        
For Santorum, Perry Endorsement Dulls Iowa News

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); POLITICS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (70%) cpac; Rick Perry; The Caucus

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



384 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Rick Perry Jokes About Chrysler's Super Bowl Ad. The Punch Line: Obama.

BYLINE: ERIK ECKHOLM


HIGHLIGHT: During remarks in Washington, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas also made a populist appeal, blaming Wall Street for the financial meltdown. 

 BODY:
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, in the course of a powerfully delivered indictment of the Obama administration on Thursday, managed to slip in a response to that Chrysler ad that ran during the Super Bowl, called "It's Halftime in America," in which Clint Eastwood extolled the recovery of the auto industry. 
"This country can't be knocked out with one punch," Mr. Eastwood says, closing with, "Our second half is about to begin."
Democrats seized on the commercial as an endorsement of bailouts, while Republicans called it a partisan payback from the industry to President Obama. Mr. Eastwood and Chrysler said the ad was meant to be an inspirational message, not a political statement.
Mr. Perry drew chuckles from the audience at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington when he said, "I'm fearful of what the final score is going to be if we let this president start the second half."
Reflecting a strand of conservatism that can sound almost like Occupy Wall Street, Mr. Perry struck a populist note in his speech, saying that a Washington-Wall Street cabal had created the housing crisis and devastating recession. The dire effects were not visited upon the banks and executives that caused the disaster, he said, but "you and me, the average American, Main Street."
"We inherited the worst financial mess this nation has ever seen," he said. "We need to clean up the corruption from K Street to Wall Street so they can't ever gamble with our children's future again." 

        
Bachmann Assails Obama Before Conservatives
        
Rubio Receives Warm Reception at CPAC
        
The Fund-Raising Rise and Fall of Rick Perry
        
Debates Aren't to Blame for Perry's Failure
        
For Santorum, Perry Endorsement Dulls Iowa News

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SPORTS MARKETING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); POLITICS (75%); BAILOUTS (75%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (70%) cpac; Rick Perry; The Caucus

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2012



385 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Jobs Bounce

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Perceptions about economic performance may be more important than the underlying reality, at least in the short run. 

 BODY:
It looks as though Barack Obama may already be deriving some political benefit from the release of last week's favorable jobs report.
Gallup's daily tracking of Mr. Obama's approval rating registered at 49 percent when the poll was released on Wednesday -- the highest in a Gallup poll since June. This is noteworthy because this was the first edition of the Gallup poll that consisted entirely of interviews conducted after Friday, when the jobs figures were announced. Mr. Obama's Gallup rating had been 46 percent based on interviews up through last Thursday, before the release of the jobs report.
In the other daily tracking poll, from Rasmussen Reports, Mr. Obama's job approval is now at 50 percent. It had been 46 percent in the last edition of the poll that Rasmussen published before the jobs report, so this represents a four-point improvement. (Although it should be noted that Rasmussen briefly had Mr. Obama tracking above 50 percent in late January.)
Ordinarily, it is not worth sweating every tick in a president's approval rating, especially with the election so distant. But this one is interesting for reasons that go beyond the general relationship between the economy and presidential performance.
There is a debate in the political science literature about whether voters tend to consider their personal economic circumstances in evaluating an incumbent's performance on the economy or instead look for signals about where the economy is headed based on news accounts.
The truth is almost certainly somewhere in between, but this evidence is a small point in favor of the latter interpretation.
About 243,000 jobs were created in January on a seasonally adjusted basis. That shows improvement, but it represents only about 0.1 percent of the American population.
And if you look at the jobs report in a highly literal way, it shows that a good number of Americans actually jobs in January. The work force typically declines significantly in January as workers are laid off from temporary retail and service-sector jobs that they held during the holiday season, and this year was no exception. Before these seasonal adjustments, about 2.7 million Americans jobs in January.
The reason the report qualified as good news is because that represents the fewest January job losses since 2006, when 2.7 million Americans were also laid off. An average of 3.1 million Americans lost jobs in the five Januaries from 2007 to 2011.
Seasonally oriented job losses are easier for people to plan around and might not have the same effect as a job loss they did not anticipate. In addition, the jobs report showed good news for job holders as well as job seekers, with wages and hours worked improving.
Nevertheless, the fact remains that Mr. Obama's approval ratings have improved by several points since last month, even though fewer Americans are employed.
This suggests that Americans' evaluation of the economy may be relatively forward-looking. Moreover, it suggests that published reports on economic performance can matter. Although Mr. Obama's approval rating had already been on something of an upward trajectory in January, he appears to have gotten an additional three- or four-point gain that was specifically tied to the jobs report.
A more daring conclusion might be that at least in the short run, perceptions about economic performance may more important than the underlying reality.
Let me be careful here. These jobs numbers were genuinely good, and many of the criticisms of them are red herrings. Most of the people who are pointing out that the economy lost jobs before seasonal adjustments, for instance, were not praising Mr. Obama when the economy gained 2.1 million jobs -- before seasonal adjustments -- from August to November.
In addition, many private companies release data related to jobs and layoffs. They use different techniques for their seasonal adjustments, but those numbers have also been reasonably good.
Still, it seems that some of the benefit an incumbent derives from strong economic headlines is from the headlines themselves.
Speaking of which, there is one set of headlines that could be especially important to Mr. Obama. On Friday, Nov. 2, the government will release a jobs report -- just four days in advance of the Nov. 6 election.
That will represent the first time since 2000 that a jobs report immediately preceded a presidential election. If the election is too close to call at that point, the report could very easily make the difference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%) Politics

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



386 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Muslim Brotherhood Demands Egyptian Military Relinquish Power Early

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
CAIRO -- The Muslim Brotherhood demanded Thursday that Egypt's military rulers cede control of the government, stepping closer to a long-anticipated confrontation between the ruling generals and the Islamist-dominated Parliament.
In a statement on its Web site and a television interview with one of its senior leaders, the Brotherhood called for the military to allow the replacement of the current prime minister and cabinet with a new coalition government formed by Parliament, which would amount to an immediate handover of power.
The Brotherhood, the formerly outlawed Islamist group that now dominates Parliament, had previously said it was content to wait for the June deadline by which the generals had pledged to turn over power, which they seized with the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak last year. And signs were accumulating of a general accord between the military and the Brotherhood over the terms of a new constitution expected to be ratified before the handover. The Brotherhood's shift comes on the eve of the Feb. 11 anniversary of Mr. Mubarak's downfall, when other activists around the country have called for a general strike to demand the end of military rule -- a call the Brotherhood has previously resisted. 
But the group is also changing its position at a time when the military-controlled government appears overwhelmed by domestic and foreign crises, including a deadly soccer riot last week followed by five days of violent protests, a standoff with Washington that has imperiled billions of dollars in United States aid and international loans, and an economy teetering on collapse.
''We must start the formation of a coalition government immediately, to deal in particular with the economic situation and the state of lawlessness in this homeland,'' Khairat el Shater, deputy to the Brotherhood's Supreme Guide and one of its most influential figures, said in the online statement, which quoted an interview he gave to Al Jazeera.
Mr. Shater pointed in particular to the government's repeated use of deadly force against civilian protesters.
''Dealing with the demonstrators violently is a mistake, a sign of weakness and mismanagement by the Ministry of Interior,'' he said.
The Brotherhood is effectively agreeing with street protesters and liberals on the need for the military to leave power at once. But in the polarized dynamics of Egypt's nascent democracy, liberal party leaders said Thursday that they were unwilling to form a coalition with the Islamists even to remove the military.
''The liberals would prefer to be in opposition to monitor and leave it to the Brotherhood to implement their control,'' said Emad Gad, a leader of the liberal Social Democratic Party.
At stake in the debate over the timing of the handover is who will hold power during the drafting of a constitution and election of a president. The military has previously sought guidelines giving itself permanent political powers and immunities, and its opponents fear that it could again try to shape the constitutional process for its own benefit.
In the early rounds of elections, Brotherhood leaders briefly threatened to challenge the generals over control of the government. But later, signs of accord emerged with the ruling military on delicate subjects like limiting disclosure of the defense budget.
Now, though, the military-led government appears paralyzed by crises. The generals have seemed unwilling or unable to resolve a dispute with Washington over criminal charges filed against 16 Americans, including the son of a cabinet official, in a politically charged case over foreign financing of nonprofit groups. (Egypt initially said that 19 Americans were being charged, but the United States says only 16 are citizens; of those, at least six are still in Egypt and barred from traveling.)
The dispute prompted President Obama and Congressional leaders to threaten to cancel Egypt's $1.5 billion in annual American aid. Diplomats say American opposition could also make it harder for Egypt to obtain billions of dollars in badly needed foreign currency from the International Monetary Fund, as well as other international lenders and donors.
Last week, the deadliest soccer riot in Egypt's history and the bloodiest in the world in at least 15 years left more than 73 fans dead. Many blamed the police for failing to prevent the violence, and tens of thousands of protesters swarmed Interior Ministry buildings in Cairo and Suez.
But 15 more were killed as a result of the response by the police, who used tear gas, birdshot, rubber bullets and live ammunition. Since beginning a crackdown in October, the security forces have killed more than 100 street protesters.
The soccer riot and its aftermath prove ''that security in the country is in a state of grave instability,'' a Brotherhood spokesman, Mahmoud Ghuzlan, said.
But the advent of a democratically elected Parliament has made it possible for the chamber to form a coalition government with the legitimacy to crack down on the disorder. ''If the Parliament formed a government that represents the people, it could take harsh measures that would deter anyone who might dare to repeat such disasters,'' Mr. Ghuzlan said.
He said the Brotherhood had changed its position toward the interim government in part because of the report of a parliamentary fact-finding mission. Lawmakers who visited the morgue found that the interior minister had lied to lawmakers when he said his officers never used birdshot or other ammunition against the demonstrators.
''He didn't say the truth,'' Mr. Ghuzlan said, explaining that the Muslim Brotherhood's parliamentary leaders were now moving toward a no-confidence vote to remove the interior minister. It could be a first test of strength between the elected Parliament and military leaders.
But he said the group did not seek a confrontation, and noted that the current interim Constitution backed by the military allowed it to name a new cabinet even after a parliamentary vote of no confidence.
If the military council refuses to let Parliament name a new cabinet, Brotherhood leaders said, they may seek a no-confidence vote on the whole government, or take to the streets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); RIOTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (64%); WEB SITES (57%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (92%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



387 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Money And Morals

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Lately inequality has re-entered the national conversation. Occupy Wall Street gave the issue visibility, while the Congressional Budget Office supplied hard data on the widening income gap. And the myth of a classless society has been exposed: Among rich countries, America stands out as the place where economic and social status is most likely to be inherited.
So you knew what was going to happen next. Suddenly, conservatives are telling us that it's not really about money; it's about morals. Never mind wage stagnation and all that, the real problem is the collapse of working-class family values, which is somehow the fault of liberals. 
But is it really all about morals? No, it's mainly about money.
To be fair, the new book at the heart of the conservative pushback, Charles Murray's ''Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010,'' does highlight some striking trends. Among white Americans with a high school education or less, marriage rates and male labor force participation are down, while births out of wedlock are up. Clearly, white working-class society has changed in ways that don't sound good.
But the first question one should ask is: Are things really that bad on the values front?
Mr. Murray and other conservatives often seem to assume that the decline of the traditional family has terrible implications for society as a whole. This is, of course, a longstanding position. Reading Mr. Murray, I found myself thinking about an earlier diatribe, Gertrude Himmelfarb's 1996 book, ''The De-Moralization of Society: From Victorian Virtues to Modern Values,'' which covered much of the same ground, claimed that our society was unraveling and predicted further unraveling as the Victorian virtues continued to erode.
Yet the truth is that some indicators of social dysfunction have improved dramatically even as traditional families continue to lose ground. As far as I can tell, Mr. Murray never mentions either the plunge in teenage pregnancies among all racial groups since 1990 or the 60 percent decline in violent crime since the mid-90s. Could it be that traditional families aren't as crucial to social cohesion as advertised?
Still, something is clearly happening to the traditional working-class family. The question is what. And it is, frankly, amazing how quickly and blithely conservatives dismiss the seemingly obvious answer: A drastic reduction in the work opportunities available to less-educated men.
Most of the numbers you see about income trends in America focus on households rather than individuals, which makes sense for some purposes. But when you see a modest rise in incomes for the lower tiers of the income distribution, you have to realize that all -- yes, all -- of this rise comes from the women, both because more women are in the paid labor force and because women's wages aren't as much below male wages as they used to be.
For lower-education working men, however, it has been all negative. Adjusted for inflation, entry-level wages of male high school graduates have fallen 23 percent since 1973. Meanwhile, employment benefits have collapsed. In 1980, 65 percent of recent high-school graduates working in the private sector had health benefits, but, by 2009, that was down to 29 percent.
So we have become a society in which less-educated men have great difficulty finding jobs with decent wages and good benefits. Yet somehow we're supposed to be surprised that such men have become less likely to participate in the work force or get married, and conclude that there must have been some mysterious moral collapse caused by snooty liberals. And Mr. Murray also tells us that working-class marriages, when they do happen, have become less happy; strange to say, money problems will do that.
One more thought: The real winner in this controversy is the distinguished sociologist William Julius Wilson.
Back in 1996, the same year Ms. Himmelfarb was lamenting our moral collapse, Mr. Wilson published ''When Work Disappears: The New World of the Urban Poor,'' in which he argued that much of the social disruption among African-Americans popularly attributed to collapsing values was actually caused by a lack of blue-collar jobs in urban areas. If he was right, you would expect something similar to happen if another social group -- say, working-class whites -- experienced a comparable loss of economic opportunity. And so it has.
So we should reject the attempt to divert the national conversation away from soaring inequality toward the alleged moral failings of those Americans being left behind. Traditional values aren't as crucial as social conservatives would have you believe -- and, in any case, the social changes taking place in America's working class are overwhelmingly the consequence of sharply rising inequality, not its cause.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (78%); MEN (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); MARRIAGE (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (67%); VIOLENT CRIME (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); CRIME RATES (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



388 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Another City's Lesson About Crime Reduction

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for The Chicago News Cooperative.
Chicago gnashed its teeth as the New York Giants won the Super Bowl.
It should do the same over crime.
More notable than the Giants' unforeseen playoff run is a stunning decline in crime in New York that shatters many assumptions about law enforcement and could serve as a road map for Chicago.
It explains why Franklin E. Zimring, a criminal justice expert at the University of California, Berkeley, will headline an A-list symposium hosted by the University of Chicago Crime Lab on Friday. His new book, ''The City That Became Safe,'' (Oxford University Press, 2012), is mostly about New York, but it should be required reading for policy makers and nervous citizens here. 
''We thought the only way to reduce crime was to lock people up,'' Mr. Zimring said. ''In New York, incarceration went down and crimes went down.''
For the past century, ups and downs in crime have fit a pattern nationwide. In the early 1990s there was a sharp rise amid a crack cocaine epidemic, and New York and Chicago had strikingly similar crime rates.
The fluctuations gave birth to a powerful conventional wisdom that law-enforcement strategies couldn't have much impact, noted Roseanna Ander, executive director of the crime lab.
Poverty, inequality, racism, drug use and gang wars were cited as root causes that couldn't really be overcome by even the most vigilant beat officers. If there was a consensus, it was simple and macho: arrest more people and lock 'em up.
But New York is lapping Chicago and nearly every big city by any index one inspects. The homicide rate alone in New York is about one-third of Chicago's. And New York's incarceration rates have fallen rapidly even as robbery, burglary, auto theft, larceny, rape and assault rates have declined faster than elsewhere.
Mr. Zimring, a former University of Chicago law school professor, has exhaustively analyzed New York's dramatic drop over the past 20 years. He scrutinized factors like economic inequality, children in single-parent homes, accessibility to guns, immigration patterns, you name it. He dissected patterns like heavy immigration by Asians, who have low crime rates, and New York's persistently higher youth unemployment and poverty rates.
Nothing really seems to account for New York's differences other than increases in police resources and strategies focused on serious crime, and not, according to Mr. Zimring, the often mythologized ''quality of life,'' or so-called ''broken windows'' strategies that concentrate on, say, public prostitution or gambling.
Thus, limiting drug violence by shutting open-air drug markets proved to be a far bigger and smartly executed priority than chasing hookers.
All that is relevant to Chicago since Garry F. McCarthy, the new police superintendent, is a product of the New York Police Department. Mr. McCarthy, who will join Mr. Zimring at the symposium on Friday, most recently led the police force in another crime-plagued city, Newark, and introduced New York's now-famous Compstat system there. For sure, to read ''The City That Became Safe'' is to wonder if duplication here might bring salvation, even if the author himself is uncertain about some elements.
Mr. McCarthy has made Compstat, a process of data mapping and analysis, a crucial part of Chicago's crime-fighting campaign.
In Compstat sessions, local commanders must go into granular detail about recent crimes and face tough but fair-minded questioning from bosses.
Having been to a Compstat session myself, it was a revelation to see such government accountability, and how centralized data analysis becomes a powerful tool that allows bosses to better evaluate performance.
Mr. McCarthy and his surrogates seem to know area crime data better than local commanders. They poke holes in facile or evasive responses to their questions while firmly offering constructive advice.
Still, an inclination to blindly ape New York could bring perils. For example, the city has relied on a prodigious increase in stop-and-frisks, many concentrated in the poorest neighborhoods. Those aggressive methods can bring costs, especially in increasing tensions with poor residents.
''I think the key challenge for Chicago is to figure out a way to get the benefits of what New York has done without all of the collateral costs to our most disadvantaged citizens,'' Ms. Ander said.
A major test is gang violence. Conventional wisdom says that Chicago's rampant gangs set it apart. Mr. Zimring points to Los Angeles' big crime decline despite having many gangs.
The Chicago rationalization, he believes, is a copout.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); FORENSICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (87%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); BURGLARY (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (75%); POOR POPULATION (74%); LAWYERS (74%); VEHICLE THEFT (72%); HOMICIDE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); POVERTY RATES (71%); CHILD POVERTY (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); ROBBERY (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); PRISONS (68%); COCAINE (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); GANGS (66%); RACE & RACISM (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PARENTS (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (63%); IMMIGRATION (60%); PROSTITUTION (60%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



389 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 5330 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information: nytimes.com/theater.
Previews and Openings
'And God Created Great Whales' (in previews; opens on Sunday) This Obie-winning show, created by and featuring the eclectic, magnetic Rinde Eckert (''Horizon''), combines Moby-Dick, mental disease and music. Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (David DeWitt)
'Assistance' (in previews; opens on Feb. 28) Occupy the stage! This satire by Leslye Headland (the 2010 critical hit ''Bachelorette'') sets employees against a boss from hell. Directed by Trip Cullman, with Bobby Steggert, Michael Esper and Sue Jean Kim. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org. (DeWitt) 
'Beyond the Horizon' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Feb. 26) Ciaran O'Reilly, who directed the Irish Rep revivals of ''The Emperor Jones'' and ''The Hairy Ape,'' returns to Eugene O'Neill with this staging of the playwright's first full-length work, a story of two brothers in love with the same woman. It won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1920. Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, irishrep.org. (David Rooney)
'Blood Knot' (in previews; opens on Thursday) The South African playwright Athol Fugard, 79, is in town to direct this revival, in which Colman Domingo (''The Scottsboro Boys'') and Scott Shepherd (''Gatz'' and ''Vieux Carre'') play biracial brothers during apartheid in the first work of Signature's Fugard season. Two other notes of interest: Mr. Fugard acted in the 1985-86 Broadway production, along with the great Zakes Mokae, and the new ''Blood Knot'' is the debut effort in a new Signature space, the Alice Griffin Jewel Box Theater. (Meanwhile, the revival of Mr. Fugard's ''Road to Mecca'' continues on Broadway. He's having quite a year.) Signature Theater, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (DeWitt)
'The Broken Heart' (in previews) John Ford's 1629 play offers an all-but-the-kitchen-sink sampling of Renaissance drama -- violence, blood, romance, dark comedy -- in its ancient Sparta setting. This production from Theater for a New Audience, which is having a run of acclaimed classical work, is directed by Selina Cartmell of Britain in her American debut, with choreography by Annie-B Parson and costumes by Susan Hilferty. Annika Boras and Bianca Amato star, with veterans like Philip Goodwin, Tom Nelis, Saxon Palmer and Andrew Weems in the mix. The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, new42.org. (DeWitt)
'Carrie' (in previews; opens on March 1) Will it be another bloodbath or a fresh prom-night corsage this time around for the infamous musical adapted from the Stephen King novel? One of Broadway's most legendary flops in its 1988 debut, the show has been revised for this MCC Theater production by its original team, Michael Gore (composer), Dean Pitchford (lyricist) and Lawrence D. Cohen (author of the book and also screenwriter of the 1976 Brian De Palma film). Stafford Arima directs a cast that includes Molly Ranson as the telekinetic high school misfit and Marin Mazzie as her hellfire-preaching mother. Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Rooney)
'CQ/CX' (in previews; opens on Wednesday) David Leveaux directs a cast that includes Larry Bryggman, Tim Hopper, Arliss Howard and David Pittu in this Atlantic Theater Company premiere by Gabe McKinley, who draws on his own experience as a newspaper staffer. Inspired by the Jayson Blair controversy, the play charts the rise and fall of an ambitious young, black New York Times reporter, and the collateral damage when he becomes the center of a plagiarism scandal. Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'Death of a Salesman' (previews start on Monday; opens on March 15) Following in the footsteps of Brian Dennehy, Dustin Hoffman, George C. Scott and Lee J. Cobb, just to name his Broadway predecessors in the role, Philip Seymour Hoffman slips on the careworn persona of Willy Loman in this revival of the Arthur Miller classic. Directed by Mike Nichols, the ensemble also features Linda Emond as Linda, Andrew Garfield (due on screen this summer in ''The Amazing Spider-Man'') as Biff, Bill Camp as Charley and John Glover as Ben. Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Early Plays' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on Feb. 22) Two titans of experimental theater, the Wooster Group and New York City Players, come together under the direction of Richard Maxwell in this interpretation of Eugene O'Neill's ''Glencairn'' plays, exploring themes of longing and eternity through tales of sailors on and off the ocean. St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org. (Rooney)
'Edward Albee's The Lady From Dubuque' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on March 5) As part of Signature's inaugural season in its new Frank Gehry-designed home, the company tackles one of Mr. Albee's more challenging plays with this rare revival of the 1980 work inspired by his reading of Elisabeth Kubler-Ross's ''On Death and Dying.'' David Esbjornson directs a cast headed by Jane Alexander as the enigmatic title figure. Signature Theater, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Rooney)
'Galileo' (in previews; opens on Feb. 23) This new production of the Brecht play, translated by Charles Laughton, offers another chance to see the courageous title character up against the Inquisition. It stars the busy Oscar-winner F. Murray Abraham and features a range of stage stalwarts, familiar and rising, like Jon DeVries, Steven Skybell and Nick Westrate. Brian Kulick directs. Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (DeWitt)
'How I Learned to Drive' (in previews; opens on Monday) Norbert Leo Butz and Elizabeth Reaser head the cast for this first major New York revival of Paula Vogel's 1998 Pulitzer Prize-winning play, about the unhealthy relationship between an adolescent girl and the manipulative uncle teaching her to drive, both of whom are outsiders within their family. Kate Whoriskey (''Ruined'') directs. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Rooney)
'Hurt Village' (in previews; opens on Feb. 27) Katori Hall (the Martin Luther King drama ''The Mountaintop'') is back in Memphis for this premiere, a tale of a teenage rapper, her family, their home in a housing project -- and the return of her father, an Iraq war veteran. With Ron Cephas Jones and Tonya Pinkins. Signature Theater, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (DeWitt)
'An Iliad' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on March 6 and 7) The Tony-winning actors Denis O'Hare and Stephen Spinella play alternate performances of this new version of Homer's epic poem. Written by Mr. O'Hare and Lisa Peterson, who also directs, the production considers humanity's appetite for violence and destruction, contemplating how little has changed since the Trojan War. New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com, nytw.org. (Rooney)
'The Inexplicable Redemption of Agent G' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Death in Vietnam, swaggering rap and a character named the Playwright: The Ma-Yi Theater Company, in collaboration with Vampire Cowboys Theater, presents the Off Broadway debut of this genre-defying work by Qui Nguyen, which ran downtown last year. Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (DeWitt)
'The Navigator' (in previews; opens on Saturday) Eddie Antar's play returns for a run on a bigger stage in this popular production, at least among the audience members who voted in the 2011 Innovative Theater Awards; they granted the show eight nominations. It's the tale of an out-of-work, out-of-luck guy who gets unlikely help from his car's GPS system. WorkShop Theater, 312 West 36th Street, fourth floor, (866) 811-4111, workshoptheater.org. (DeWitt)
'Painting Churches' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on March 6) Carl Forsman stages the first major New York revival of Tina Howe's 1983 comedy about parent-child relationships and the intersection of life and art. The Keen Company production stars Kathleen Chalfant and John Cunningham as the aging couple preparing to move to a Cape Cod beach house, and Kate Turnbull as the artist daughter who arrives to help them pack and paint their portrait. Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Rutherford & Son' (in previews; opens on Feb. 27) The solid Mint Theater first staged this 1912 family-business drama at a soon-to-be historic time -- September 2001 -- and now gives the play another chance, with some cast members from that production of more than a decade ago. Richard Corley directs the Githa Sowerby play. Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (DeWitt)
'Shatner's World: We Just Live in It ...' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Thursday) Beam me up, Scotty. The original Capt. James T. Kirk, William Shatner, takes us on a voyage that visits ''Star Trek,'' Shakespeare and beyond in this solo show, scheduled for just 19 performances. No details on whether he will perform his bizarrely compelling spoken-word renditions of songs like ''Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds,'' ''Bohemian Rhapsody'' and Pulp's ''Common People,'' but fans can live in hope. Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Tokio Confidential' (in previews; opens on Saturday) An American widow heads to Japan, where she falls in love with a tattoo artist -- in 1879, when body ink was not quite as omnipresent. This musical, by Eric Schorr, comes from Scandal Productions. Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (DeWitt)
'Tribes' (previews start on Thursday; opens on March 4) Acclaimed in its 2010 premiere at the Royal Court Theater in London, Nina Raine's play brings David Cromer back to the same address where he staged his penetrating dissection of ''Our Town.'' His latest project is a provocative comedy about a young man born deaf into a family whose articulacy compounds his isolation. Things change when he begins a relationship with a woman also losing her hearing. The six-member cast features Mare Winningham. Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
Broadway
- 'Anything Goes' Kathleen Marshall's zesty revival of Cole Porter's hit-packed musical embodies the essence of escapist entertainment in the 1930s, when hard times called for bold smiles, tough wisecracks and flashy fantasies. Sutton Foster is sensational as the nightclub evangelist Reno Sweeney (2:30). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)
- 'The Book of Mormon' This delightful collaboration between the creators of ''South Park'' (Trey Parker and Matt Stone) and the composer of ''Avenue Q'' (Robert Lopez) is blasphemous, scurrilous and as pure-hearted as a Rodgers and Hammerstein show. No musical has so successfully had it both ways since ''The Producers.'' Casey Nicholaw is the witty co-director (with Mr. Parker) and choreographer (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Gershwins' Porgy and Bess' As the fatally conflicted Bess, the extraordinary Audra McDonald is a gale force of emotion in Diane Paulus's slimmed-down musical adaptation of the landmark 1935 opera. Otherwise, despite a likable performance from Norm Lewis as Porgy, this production feels cloudy and mild, only rarely acquiring the majesty of the opera that inspired it (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Godspell' Oh, dear Lord: the beloved 1971 musical that turned biblical parables into teachable moments has been stuffed fruitcake-full of jokey contemporary allusions. Performed by a peppy young cast, the show is like being stuck in a rec room with kids who have been too reckless with the Red Bull (2:30). Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying' Nick Jonas plays the amoral hero of Frank Loesser's 1961 musical about corporate ladder-climbing. Rob Ashford directed this largely charm-free revival (2:40). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Other Desert Cities' Jon Robin Baitz's family drama is so good that you may not even realize how good it is while you're watching it. Joe Mantello directs a sublime cast that expertly elicits the pain and the comfort of blood ties: Stockard Channing, Rachel Griffiths, Stacy Keach, Judith Light and Justin Kirk (2:15). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Priscilla Queen of the Desert' The 1994 movie about Australian drag queens in the outback becomes a hyperactively splashy karaoke musical so desperate to show the audience a gaudy good time that the results are mostly enervating. Tony Sheldon brings some warmth as the transsexual Bernadette, but the show is mostly a riot of spangles, sequins and silly costumes (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'The Road to Mecca' A quiet, slow and ultimately powerful revival of Athol Fugard's three-character play about the inevitable and necessary apartness of artists. Rosemary Harris is wonderful, a study in subliminal radiance, as an aging South African sculptor under siege from the forces of conventionalism. Jim Dale and Carla Gugino provide strong support in Gordon Edelstein's production (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)
'Seminar' Alan Rickman is a virtuoso of disdain in Theresa Rebeck's shiny, facile comedy about an ego-shredding writing teacher. Full of efficiently mapped reversals, the play feels as if it were written according to the literary equivalent of a GPS device. Sam Gold directs a bright cast that includes Lily Rabe and Hamish Linklater (1:40). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Sister Act' When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the Gothic rafters, led by the radiant Patina Miller, all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' This retooled mega-expensive musical is no longer an ungodly, indecipherable mess. It's just a bore. Recommended for less-than-precocious children with a hundred dollars to burn (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com. (Brantley)
'Stick Fly' Lydia R. Diamond's overstuffed but lively comedy-drama feels like a Tyler Perry melodrama (sans Madea) as revised by an academic specializing in issues of class in African-American culture. Condola Rashad gives the standout performance in the director Kenny Leon's uneven production, playing a young woman who embodies the problems of racial and class divisions that the other characters theorize about (2:15). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
- 'Venus in Fur' The incandescent Nina Arianda recreates her dazzling turn as an actress auditioning for the role of a 19th-century dominatrix in David Ives's seriously funny sex comedy about power games at an audition. Hugh Dancy holds his own as the writer-director who may be discovering more than he wants to know about the destabilizing nature of desire (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'War Horse' This imported British weepie, adapted from Michael Morpurgo's children's book about a cavalry horse in World War I, has the most charismatic matinee idol seen in ages: that's Joey, the title character, a puppet brought to life-size life with ineffably theatrical magic (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
- 'Wit' Cynthia Nixon gives a large, lucid and delicate performance in this immaculately staged (and inevitably moving) revival of Margaret Edson's Pulitzer Prize-winning drama from 1998 about a terminally ill English professor. Lynne Meadow's smart and sensitive production magnifies the play's innate theatricality without compromising the hard emotional truth at its center (1:40). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Broadway
- 'The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs' The accomplished monologuist Mike Daisey weaves the story of the Apple co-founder's life and vision into a darker exploration of the troubling economic disparities that underlie our technology-obsessed age. Smart, engaging and funny, but be warned that you might have second thoughts about purchasing that next shiny gadget (1:50). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' The most famous bears since the three in the Goldilocks story are onstage in this adaptation of three of the titles in the long-running children's book series by Stan and Jan Berenstain. The show, by Michael Borton and Michael Slade, offers a pleasant hour for small theatergoers, with a pop-flavored score and actors who inhabit their fuzzy roles enthusiastically. But like the books, it's rather tame and tidy; after this many years of a formula, even the Berenstain cubs are starting to show their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com. (Laurel Graeber)
'Chekhovek' This dramatization of nine Chekhov short stories is proficiently acted and directed, yet often more intriguing in theory than in execution (2:00). ArcLight Theater, 152 West 71st Street, (866) 811-4111, chekhovek.com. (Ken Jaworowski)
'The Devil's Music: The Life and Blues of Bessie Smith' Miche Braden plays the bawdy-talking, hooch-swilling Bessie Smith in this show that mixes Smith's songs with talk about her life, loves and career. That format seems a bit tired, but Ms. Braden gives it her all (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Look Back in Anger' Sam Gold's stylized staging of John Osborne's 1956 drama about a working-class lad with the weight of a stifling social system on his shoulders wins points for ingenuity -- the stage is about three feet deep -- but in the crucial central role, Matthew Rhys (television's ''Brothers and Sisters'') never locates the genuine pain beneath the surface rage (2:10). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 352-3101, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Myths and Hymns' Elizabeth Lucas's luminous staging of Adam Guettel's elegiac song cycle turns Mr. Guettel's richly melodic songs of yearning and transcendence into reflections on the loves and losses of a New England family. Well sung by a cast of six, led by Linda Balgord as the matriarch beset by ghosts from the past (1:20). West End Theater, 263 West 86th Street, (212) 352-3101, propspecttheater.org. (Isherwood)
'The Philanderer' An early work by George Bernard Shaw, this drawing-room farce follows a Victorian-era love triangle among a rake, the woman he loves and the woman who loves him. Shaw meant to explore some of the feminist territory Ibsen had in ''A Doll's House,'' but he met with only mixed success. This production by the Pearl Theater Company does little to elevate the play either, though it benefits from Karron Graves's comic performance as the impetuous and frustrated Julia Craven (2:30). City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Daniel M. Gold)
'Rent' Maybe they should call it ''Sublet.'' The young cast members who inhabit this premature revival of Jonathan Larson's watershed rock opera from 1996, directed by Michael Greif, never seem to feel truly at home. It is as if they're reluctant to make this show their own (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Richard III' Kevin Spacey entertainingly out-acts everybody onstage in Sam Mendes's valedictory production for the Anglo-American Bridge Project. Say what you will about Mr. Spacey's histrionic excesses, he provides a sustained (and intelligent) interpretation as Shakespeare's murderous crookback. The same cannot be said of Mr. Mendes's staging, a grab bag of postmodern gimmicks (3:00). Harvey Theater, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Brantley)
'Russian Transport' Janeane Garofalo plays it straight, more or less, in Erika Sheffer's dark drama about the corrupting influence of a new Russian immigrant (the excellent Morgan Spector) on a Brooklyn family (2:10). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
- 'Rx' Kate Fodor's play about an affair between a work-weary editor (Marin Hinkle) and a pharmaceutical researcher (Stephen Kunken) is an engaging blend of gentle satire on our overprescribed culture and classic romantic comedy. Ethan McSweeny's sprightly production features fun supporting turns from Marylouise Burke and Elizabeth Rich (1:40). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Isherwood)
'Silence! The Musical' A silly, coarse musical spin on ''The Silence of the Lambs'' as pitched to obsessive fans (1:30). 9th Space Theater at Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Sistas: The Musical' The script is obvious, covering virtually every issue that might touch the lives of black women, but Dorothy Marcic's good-natured, low-budget musical is all about the songs. From ''Ain't Nobody's Business if I Do'' to ''Single Ladies,'' you could do a lot worse (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Sleep No More' Punchdrunk, a British site-specific theater company, has taken over three abandoned warehouses to enact the sorry sights of the murderous Macbeths' career as a movable orgy. The result suggests what might have happened if Stanley Kubrick (of ''The Shining'') had designed the Haunted Mansion at Disney World (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com. (Brantley)
'Traces' An energizing evening of acrobatics from the Montreal troupe Seven Fingers. Think of it as cirque du cabaret, in which a group of distinctive talents gets to show off the physical equivalents of individual song stylings (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'The Ugly One' Marius von Mayenburg's absurdist comedy bluntly satirizes the superficiality of contemporary culture and the slipperiness of identity. When an engineer deficient in looks (Alfredo Narciso) is transformed into a super-hunk by plastic surgery, he begins to lose his grip on his sense of self, especially when he starts meeting his own face on every other street corner (1:00). Soho Rep, 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, sohorep.org. (Isherwood)
'Voca People' This show -- which reopens on Thursday after a run at Westside Theater -- features space aliens, but it's really all about a cappella music. The visitors have crash-landed on Earth in a ship powered by music, and lots of singing must be done to refuel their ship. The eight singers sound pretty good, despite some overamplification. But most of the show consists of fragments of songs, which becomes annoying; only when the cast is allowed to cut loose and deliver an entire song -- the Doors' ''People Are Strange'' is a highlight -- do things reach their full potential (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Yosemite' Daniel Talbot's stormy dysfunctional family drama never entirely coheres persuasively (1:20). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, at 11th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Zinoman)
Off Off Broadway
'The History of the World' Judith Malina, 85 and still the unsinkable life force behind the venerable downtown avant-garde troupe the Living Theater, instigates another rebellion with this exuberant, dizzying flight through the course of Western civilization, peppered with political observations. It's never dull, but the audience participation may deter some viewers. Living Theater, 21 Clinton Street, near Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-0255, livingtheatre.org. (Andy Webster)
'That Ain't No Lady' The doyenne of New York's now-defunct annual outdoor drag festival, Wigstock, Lady Bunny purveys bawdy stand-up and pornographic pop song parodies in her first new cabaret act in 10 years. Looking like Dusty Springfield on steroids and introduced ''direct from the Port Authority men's room,'' the Lady and her show are definitely not for the prudish. But anyone feeling nostalgic for the seedy old days before Times Square became a tourist-friendly theme park will get a kick out of this evening of big hair and bad manners. Tuesday only (1:30). La Escuelita Cabaret Theater, 301 West 39th Street, (212) 631-0588, brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
- 'These Seven Sicknesses' Over the course of this ambitious adaptation of Sophocles' seven surviving plays, blood erupts from just about every orifice, onto just about every article of clothing and just about every square inch of the narrow stage. Sophocles purists may not be happy with some of the changes, but in the end this gory five-hour production -- which includes breaks for a pan-Asian dinner and dessert -- remains vibrant, entertaining and fresh. That's no small feat considering its marathon length and 2,400-year-old roots (5:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 226-2407, theflea.org. (Catherine Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Baby Wants Candy' A talent-rich cast accomplishes the feat of an improvised musical. Saturday at 10 p.m. only (1:00). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, sohoplayhouse.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'Celebrity Autobiography: The Next Chapter' Celebrities read selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous. Monday (Mario Cantone, Carol Kane, Ralph Macchio, Alan Zwiebel and others) and Wednesday (Bobby Cannavale, Rachel Dratch, John Benjamin Hickey, Kristen Johnston and others) (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation (''In the Time of the Butterflies,'' in English) of Julia Alvarez's novel about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Espanol at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Freckleface the Musical' Based on the actress Julianne Moore's picture book, this children's musical transcends the usual themes about celebrating the differences that make us special. MMAC Theater, 248 West 60th Street, (212) 239-6200; frecklefacestrawberrythemusical.com.
'Freud's Last Session' An imagined meeting of Sigmund Freud and C. S. Lewis (1:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Love, Loss, and What I Wore' Or shoes, bags and heartaches, as retailed by Nora and Delia Ephron and a rotating cast (1:20). Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Memphis' A musical focusing on an interracial romance in the early days of rock (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Million Dollar Quartet' This jukebox musical relates the day when Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Carl Perkins and Elvis Presley all got together for an impromptu jam (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Miss Abigail's Guide to Dating, Mating, & Marriage' Abigail dispenses advice about romance drawn from vintage health manuals and etiquette guides (1:30). Downstairs Cabaret Theater at Sofia's, 221 West 46th Street, missabigailsguide.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Gonna See a Movie Called Gunga Din' (closes on Saturday) The theater company Van Cougar mashes up staged snippets of Hollywood war movies with testimonials from real-life veterans. But these two styles undermine rather than amplify each other, resulting in a missed opportunity (2:00). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (Eric Grode)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'SISTER ACT': When the good sisters of the Church of Philly Soul are rocking to raise the Gothic rafters (led by the radiant Patina Miller, center, with Victoria Clark in her habit), all is right with this stage adaptation of the hit movie about a club singer hiding out as a nun. Otherwise, this story of a bad girl teaching some good ones how to get down is innocuous but generic musical theater (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (71%); THEATER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



390 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Quinn Previews Mayoral Campaign in Council Speech

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR and DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Christine C. Quinn, simultaneously offering an agenda for the City Council and a preview of her mayoral campaign, proposed on Thursday to crack down on landlords whose buildings are deteriorating, to make kindergarten mandatory and to provide more job training for unemployed New Yorkers.
Ms. Quinn, the Council speaker, touched in her annual State of the City speech on many of the basic issues important to middle-class and poor New Yorkers: education, employment opportunity, housing and health care. She did not offer a sweeping analysis of the city's needs, but instead focused on a few specific steps that might improve conditions for those struggling to make ends meet. 
At the beginning and end of her speech, Ms. Quinn invoked an image of a city rooted in a halcyon, democratic past, exemplified by the Upper East Side immigrant neighborhood where her father, Lawrence Quinn -- who introduced her on Thursday, as he often does -- grew up during the Depression, with laundry hanging out the windows and the ''smell of cabbage cooking down the hall.''
''People who have never visited New York often see it as an intimidating metropolis, cold and impersonal,'' she said. ''But New Yorkers know the truth. We are not a big city. We're a patchwork of small towns.''
Ms. Quinn, a Democrat who began as a housing activist but has moved to the political center over the course of her career, described New York's communities as facing ''challenges,'' including chronic unemployment and high-cost housing and health care.
To combat unemployment, she said the Council would start a pilot jobs-training program and would use $10 million in federal tax credits to finance loans to small businesses. And, she said, she will ask the Council to pass legislation making it illegal to discriminate in hiring because an applicant is unemployed.
Seeking to assist the large number of independent contractors and self-employed people in the city, she said the Council would help the Freelancers Union establish a clinic to provide low-cost health care to its members. She also praised the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council and its powerful president, Peter Ward, for the free health care clinics that it has for its members.
Ms. Quinn pledged to work toward a goal of ''permanent affordability'' in development deals, noting that most affordable housing guarantees by developers expire after 30 years.
Recalling the frustration that she said she felt as a housing advocate, ''watching landlords let a building deteriorate so that they could push out tenants and sell,'' Ms. Quinn pledged that the Council would pass a measure allowing the Department of Housing Preservation and Development to require landlords to fix underlying conditions, rather than simply make cosmetic fixes.
''Slumlords will have to spend real money and fix the real problem, or we'll haul them into housing court,'' she said.
And, acknowledging that the city had not been a model landlord itself, she pledged to increase the budget of the New York City Housing Authority -- by $10 million, according to a news release -- to allow it to hire residents to do repairs.
She vowed to work with the state to pass a bill allowing New York City to make kindergarten mandatory because, she said, each year several thousand 5-year-olds do not enroll in school. And she urged the State Legislature to pass the Dream Act, which would allow tuition assistance to illegal immigrants. That measure has also been endorsed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
In a reflection of the degree to which crime has ebbed as an issue in much of the city, Ms. Quinn spoke only briefly about public safety, pledging to create a program to work with residents to clean up high-crime areas. She praised the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, and made no reference to the department's controversial stop-and-frisk practice, which other mayoral candidates have criticized as discriminatory against blacks and Hispanics. (Ms. Quinn sent Mr. Kelly a letter this week expressing concerns about the practice.)
The speech seemed to please the more liberal members of the Council, some of whom have occasionally clashed with Ms. Quinn.
Letitia James, a Brooklyn council member from the Working Families Party, said she was ''pleasantly surprised'' by the address.
''It was a touchdown,'' she said. ''It hit all the progressive notes.''
Ms. Quinn twice praised Mr. Bloomberg, who was not present, for his advocacy on immigration and gun control issues. She is a close ally of the mayor and a leading contender in the 2013 race to succeed him.
Three of Ms. Quinn's prospective rivals for the Democratic nomination for mayor -- Bill de Blasio, the public advocate; Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president; and John C. Liu, the comptroller -- attended the speech, and all were polite in praising it, focusing on her education proposals. Another candidate, William C. Thompson Jr., the former comptroller and 2009 Democratic mayoral candidate, did not attend.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Christine C. Quinn of the City Council gave her State of the City speech on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); TAX LAW (73%); LEGISLATION (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



391 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: Just One of the Girls

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
CENTENNIAL, Colo. -- For Missy Franklin, the snowstorm that immobilized this city last Friday seemed heaven-sent. Housebound by nearly 20 inches of snow, Franklin reread the third book in ''The Hunger Games'' trilogy, completed her physics and English homework, watched ''The Sound of Music,'' texted with friends and took turns cuddling on the couch with her mother and father.
It was as if Mother Nature called a timeout to give Franklin a respite from a blizzard of attention that shows no signs of abating.
At the United States Olympic swimming trials in June, Franklin, 16, will be a favorite to make the team for the London Games. After a five-medal performance at the world championships in Shanghai last summer, she is expected to contend for multiple Olympic medals. But first, she will represent Regis Jesuit, the reigning champion, at the 5A state high school and diving championships in Fort Collins, Colo., on Friday and Saturday. 
When Franklin won two individual events at last weekend's league meet, the state meet felt the ripple effect. Tickets for the preliminary and finals sessions at the Edora Pool Ice Center, which seats roughly 1,000, quickly sold out. A line for the remaining tickets is expected to form outside in the freezing cold several hours before Friday's 4 p.m. preliminaries and Saturday's 2 p.m. finals. The meet will be carried by ESPN3 and covered by state and national media outlets.
Franklin, who is 6 feet 1 inch, with pale skin, long brown hair and a smile that never dims, is at once a pacesetter and a throwback, her high school participation akin to a grandmaster showing up at Central Park to play a few games of speed chess.
''A lot of people think of swimming as an individual sport, but I've always loved the team aspect,'' Franklin said.
Michael Phelps, to whom the versatile Franklin often is compared, turned pro 11 years ago when he was 16, forsaking the chance to compete in high school and college to sign endorsement deals that made him an instant millionaire.
Franklin so far has turned down roughly $150,000 in prize money and untold riches in sponsorships for the privilege of swimming alongside and against girls who cannot keep up with her. In the 100-yard backstroke, she is eight seconds faster than her next best teammate and almost three seconds faster than her closest in-state rival.
During a four-day stretch of FINA World Cup short-course races in Europe last fall, Franklin won seven events and set a world record in the 200-meter backstroke. She would have left Europe with $73,000 if she had been able to accept prize money.
A quick economics lesson delivered by her parents, Dick and D. A., did little to sway Franklin, who also wants to swim in college. Her father, Dick, a regional director of a clean-technologies company, pointed out that her mother, D. A., a physician, did not earn in all of 2011 what Franklin might have pocketed in less than a week of racing in Europe.
''It was definitely a hard conversation for me to hear,'' Franklin said. ''I don't think about money the same way my parents do.''
She added, ''Even after going through that conversation, for me, I couldn't put a price on swimming in high school.''
To the consternation of some people connected with United States Swimming, Franklin is missing an Olympic trials tune-up meet in a 50-meter pool in Missouri this weekend to swim at the state meet, which will be in a 25-yard pool.
''If I just focused on the Olympics 24/7, it's going to add so much pressure,'' Franklin said. ''It's additional thoughts that just aren't needed.''
When her high school coach, Nick Frasersmith, was completing the state meet entries, he asked Franklin which events she wished to race. She had qualified in the 50, 100 and 200 freestyles, the 100 backstroke and the 200 individual medley. She told him to put her in whichever events he thought would help the team the most. So he entered Franklin in the 200 freestyle and 100 backstroke. She will also swim two relays.
Franklin's best friend and Regis Jesuit classmate, Abby Cutler, said she believed that Franklin, an only child, embraced high school swimming because it leaves her with the best of both worlds: parents who dote on her at home and a dedicated sisterhood at school.
Franklin mentioned tie-dye parties and inside jokes that are wrung for laughs for months and the songs she mischievously compiles on a CD that get stuck in her teammates' heads. ''That's the thing I'm best at,'' she said, beaming.
Cutler said that when she surpassed the state qualifying standards in the 200 and 500 freestyles, the first person who called to congratulate her was Franklin.
''She was just as excited for me as we were for her when she set the world record,'' Cutler said.
But the pressure of sustaining friendships and maintaining high grades while managing swimming expectations is a lot for even Franklin's broad shoulders to bear. In the months since she insinuated herself into the Olympic conversation with her performance at the world championships, those closest to her have noticed signs of strain.
One recent morning Franklin accepted a ride to a morning workout and to school from her mother because she was too tired to drive herself. Franklin was unusually quiet as her mother ticked off a few of the most recent requests from news media outlets, charities and companies wanting a few minutes of Franklin's time.
''I don't get it,'' she told her mother. ''I haven't even made the Olympic team yet. I don't deserve all this attention.''
Unsure how to reply, Franklin's mother said: ''I know there are lots of things happening right now. But when we look back on this year, we're going to say how exciting it was.''
The Olympic trials, which start June 25 in Omaha, are an eight-day stress test. In most events, only the top two finishers will qualify to compete in London. If Franklin needs reminding that no Olympic invitation is written in stone, she needs to talk only to Tori Trees Smith, the Regis Jesuit girls' assistant junior varsity coach.
In 1984, Trees Smith, then 19, was not considered a favorite to make the Olympic team, but she did, in the 200-meter backstroke. John Smith, who became her husband, was expected to qualify, but got sick and did not.
''I don't want Missy to feel like she's letting people down if she doesn't make the team,'' D. A. Franklin said. ''We're always telling her if she does her best and doesn't make the team, we'll be proud of her.''
The spotlight on Franklin has grown so large it now encompasses her parents. Before the start of the league meet, Franklin's mother was approached in the stands by another parent, who said: ''Your daughter's so humble, so sweet. She's awesome and I cannot wait to see her swim this summer.'' Then the woman asked Franklin's mother to autograph the wristband given to all of the spectators to show that they had paid.
Franklin's mother is taking a sabbatical from her job working with developmentally disabled patients to serve essentially as Franklin's personal assistant. Her tasks include not only compiling Franklin's schedule but keeping the United States Anti-Doping Agency abreast of her whereabouts at all times in case she is randomly chosen to provide a urine sample.
It is not easy keeping Franklin's whereabouts straight. Her club team, the Colorado Stars, does not have its own facility, so it rents time at more than a half-dozen pools in a typical week. And Franklin's daily schedule is as crowded as a presidential candidate's.
The day before the high school league preliminaries were scheduled to take place, she rose at 4:15 a.m. and was on the road by 4:30. Franklin was in the water by 5 for a 90-minute practice, then returned home, drank a couple of large cartons of chocolate milk and napped for an hour.
At 8, Franklin had an egg-and-sausage biscuit while studying for a vocabulary test. One of the 25 words whose definitions she had to commit to memory was ennui. Franklin had the meaning down cold, but the concept of discontent borne of boredom is completely foreign to her.
By 9:30, she was in class at Regis Jesuit, a Catholic high school with separate buildings for boys and girls. She left campus at lunch, munching on a ham-and-cheese sandwich as she drove 15 minutes to the Steadman Hawkins clinic for a dry-land conditioning session with the trainer Loren Landow, who also works with Broncos quarterback Tim Tebow, whom her friends insist is only slightly more celebrated in and around Denver right now than Franklin.
Her dry-land training partner, Kara Lynn Joyce, swam in the 2004 and 2008 Olympics. She is 10 years older than Franklin, whom she treats like a kid sister. While performing squats, Franklin told Joyce about a senior at a rival school who had openly wondered why Franklin would compete in high school swimming and deny others their moments of glory.
''It all stems from jealousy,'' Joyce assured Franklin.
Franklin returned to Regis Jesuit for the final hour of the school day and stayed for swim practice. Swimming in a lane by herself, she completed a 5,775-yard workout that her club coach, Todd Schmitz, had made for her. Meanwhile, her Regis Jesuit teammates laughed and bounced up and down and practiced their starts and relay exchanges and swam no more than 4,000 yards under Frasersmith's direction.
An hour after her teammates were done, Franklin completed her workout. She arrived at a body-shaving and pasta-eating party at Cutler's house after everyone was nearly finished with dessert. Franklin filled her paper plate with two kinds of pasta and salad, slipped into a seat and dived into conversation with girls who know her as Goober Face.
Her high school teammates, many of whom Franklin has known for years, keep a close watch on her, looking for any signs of cracks in her preternatural composure.
''She never tells you when she's stressed, but I can always tell,'' Cutler said. '' You can see it in her eyes.''
By the time Franklin left the Thursday night party, the snowstorm had begun. Before she fell into bed at 10:15, exhausted after an 18-hour day, Franklin learned that she would wake up to the first snow day of the year.
''I was so happy,'' Franklin said. ''I rarely do two swim practices and weights in the same day. I was going to be absolutely pooped if I had to go to school and swim today.''
Instead she was able to curl up on the couch and watch ''The Sound of Music,'' her favorite movie, while wrapped like a burrito in the Care Bears fleece blanket that she sewed in eighth grade. Franklin said she never tired of watching the film, which came out in 1965, 30 years before she was born.
She sang along to ''I Have Confidence,'' humming the part that goes, ''I've always longed for adventure/To do the things I've never dared/And here I'm facing adventure/Then why am I so scared?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Franklin set a world record in the 200-meter backstroke during a FINA World Cup short-course race in Berlin in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL SOHN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Missy Franklin, center, enjoying the camaraderie of her teammates, from left, Jamie Monk, Jessie Weed and Kendall Higgins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN EDMONDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10)
Missy Franklin, above center and far left, is expected to contend for medals at the London Olympics. Her mother, D. A., has take a sabbatical from her job to assist her daughter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN EDMONDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANYA SEMENOFF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); WEATHER (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SWIMMING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WOMEN (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (75%); WATER SPORTS (75%); ATHLETES (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); HOMEWORK (72%); DIVING (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (56%) COLORADO, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



392 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Police Strike By Brazilians Makes Holiday Seem a Threat

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO -- Brazil's government, faced with a devastating 10-day police strike that apparently contributed to a spike in killings in the northeast, is facing a new police strike in Rio de Janeiro less than two weeks before the start of the nation's most famous international draw: Carnival.
The strike by police officers in Brazil's northeast state of Bahia seemed to lose its momentum on Thursday with the arrests of several of the movement's leaders. But a vote on Thursday night by police officers here in Rio to strike immediately, and the threat of other work stoppages by police unions in several Brazilian states, have kept regions of the country on edge. 
More than a thousand police officers and firefighters gathered in downtown Rio on Thursday night to pressure lawmakers to vote for a measure that would raise their salaries. Sergio Simoes, a state defense official, told reporters here that the federal authorities had agreed to make 14,000 soldiers and national police officers available to maintain order in the state of Rio de Janeiro in case a strike took place.
In the northeast, the authorities registered at least 142 homicides during the strike in the metropolitan area of Salvador, Bahia's capital, more than double the number in the same period last year. The strike has also been marked by clashes between rebellious police officers and federal security forces sent by the authorities in Brasilia, the national capital, to reassert order on Salvador's streets.
A strike could be even more tumultuous in Rio, especially during Carnival later this month, when throngs of visitors flood the streets and violent crime is a concern even when the regular police force is working.
The strike in Bahia revolved around demands by the military police, who do most of the street policing in Brazil, for wage and benefit increases, focusing new attention on Brazil's income disparities. An array of social welfare programs have lifted millions of Brazilians from dire poverty over the last decade, but salaries for many public employees, including police officers and schoolteachers, remain relatively low.
While Brazil's cost of living rivals that of the United States and surpasses it in some places, police officers in Bahia earn about $1,250 a month. Salaries for police officers in Rio de Janeiro are lower, roughly $1,170 a month when some benefits are included. About one-third of Bahia's 31,000-member military police force adhered to the strike, which began when Bahia's governor, Jaques Wagner, was away in Cuba.
''This strike should be a wake-up call for the entire country,'' said Romeu Karnikowski, a sociologist who specializes in Brazil's public security policies. ''Brazil now has the world's sixth-largest economy, but our policing model is an embarrassing failure.''
The strike opened a window into the disorder and disparity that characterize some of Brazil's police forces. Other states, like Ceara in Brazil's northeast and Para in the Amazon, have recently suffered similar strikes. Elsewhere, corrupt police officers, like the militias and extermination squads of Rio de Janeiro, have been implicated in carrying out hideous crimes.
Scholars who study the police attribute some of the corruption to low salaries and a lack of prestige. Policing on the street level is often left to large contingents of low-paid, relatively untrained recruits in the military police, a force that is considered an auxiliary of the Brazilian Army and that is subordinated to state governments.
Meanwhile, administrative duties like investigating crimes are often the responsibility of each state's civil police, who enjoy somewhat higher status and better salaries. Here in Rio, both the military and the civil police voted to go on strike, as did the state's firefighters.
Brazil also has a well-paid federal police force, which investigates crimes like drug trafficking and ranks among Latin America's most respected law enforcement entities.
In Bahia, intercepted cellphone conversations among leaders of the police strike, recorded by intelligence officials and broadcast on the Globo television network, suggested that rebellious police officers were plotting acts of vandalism and were trying to extend the strike to Brazil's two most powerful states, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, speaking on Thursday from the northeast state of Pernambuco, said she was ''terrified'' after hearing the intercepted calls. ''I do not consider the increase of murders in the street, burning buses, to be the correct way of leading a movement,'' she said.
Still, the arrest of the leaders of Bahia's police strike failed to put a definitive end to it, with officers there opting Thursday to continue the stoppage. Veja, a leading newsmagazine, said that police officers in as many as eight states were considering going on strike, timing their decisions ahead of Carnival.
The Bahia strike has divided Brazil's judges and legal scholars as to whether it is legal, since the military police are subordinated to the army. One federal judge, Marcus Orione Goncalves of Sao Paulo, argued that the police had the right to strike. But Joao Oreste Dalazen, the president of Brazil's Superior Labor Tribunal, described the events in Bahia as a ''rebellion'' instead of a strike, telling reporters that the police there were carrying out an ''aggression'' against the democratic rule of law.
At the same time that Bahia's police strike stunned the country, Brazil's judges have been defending generous benefits of their own, adding to a debate over the country's broad discrepancy in public-sector pay.
In the state of Rio de Janeiro, for instance, the so-called super-salaries for some judges are $23,000 to $87,000 a month, according to a report in the newspaper Estado de Sao Paulo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers removed the body of a man killed in Salvador. A police strike there coincided with a rise in killings, and the government is worried about Carnival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FELIPE DANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); STRIKES (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); COST OF LIVING (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); SOCIOLOGY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (95%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CUBA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



393 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Designing a Fix for Housing

BYLINE: By JEANNE GANG and GREG LINDSAY. 
Jeanne Gang and Greg Lindsay are, respectively, an architect and a visiting scholar at the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management at New York University.

 BODY:
RECENT efforts to fix the housing market -- including Thursday's $26 billion settlement with five of the nation's biggest banks -- have focused purely on the financial aspects of the slump. A permanent solution, however, must go further than money to address issues that have been at the core of the crisis but have been wholly ignored: design and urban planning.
Too often during the bubble, banks and builders shunned thoughtful architecture and urban design in favor of cookie-cutter houses that could be easily repackaged as derivatives to be flipped, while architects snubbed housing to pursue more prestigious projects. 
But better design is precisely what suburban America needs, particularly when it comes to rethinking the basic residential categories that define it, but can no longer accommodate the realities of domestic life. Designers and policy makers need to see the single-family house as a design dilemma whose elements -- architecture, finance and residents' desires -- are inextricably linked.
Take Cicero, Ill., a Chicago suburb that we studied as part of a new exhibition on the housing crisis at the Museum of Modern Art. The town may be infamous as the base of Al Capone or the site of anti-integration protests in the 1950s and '60s, but today 80 percent of its residents are Latino, half of them foreign born.
Cicero is representative of a suburban transformation that went little noticed during the housing bubble and bust: suburbs have replaced inner cities as the destination of choice for new immigrants.
Indeed, nearly half of all Hispanics now live in suburbs, and new arrivals favor them over cities by two to one. Immigrants are one reason the number of suburban poor climbed 25 percent nationwide between 2000 and 2008. They're also why Cicero was hit so hard by the housing crisis, with 2,049 foreclosures in 2009 alone -- the second highest in Illinois, after Chicago.
Here's where design comes in. Most of Cicero's housing is detached, single-family homes. But these are too expensive for many immigrants, so five or six families often squeeze into one of Cicero's brick bungalows. This creates unstable financial situations, neighborhood tensions and falling real estate values.
Too often, we see such mismatches as a purely financial issue. But instead of forcing families to fit into a house, what if we rearranged the house to fit them?
This doesn't mean bulldozing Cicero's housing stock. Instead, it means using existing, underused properties that might be renovated to provide a better fit. In Cicero's case, that might mean turning to the scores of abandoned factories around it.
Such buildings are often no man's lands thanks to fears of industrial contamination, which have left older suburbs pockmarked by blight while jobs and homes sprawl outward. But new techniques like ''phytoremediation'' -- using plants like poplar and willow trees to absorb toxins -- open the door to safer, less-expensive rehabilitation.
What remains is a wealth of steel, masonry and concrete that could be recycled into flexible live/work units. Rather than force Cicero's residents to contort themselves to fit the bungalows, their homes can expand or shrink to fit them.
There's one problem with such a plan: it's illegal under Cicero's zoning code. The town's rules are typical of most suburbs, including the segregation of residential, commercial and industrial facilities; prohibitions on expanding and reusing buildings for new homes and businesses; and tight restrictions on mixed-use properties. Cicero's code also defines ''family'' in a way that excludes the large, multigenerational groupings now common across the country.
This has been an issue for urban planners for years, but many of the proposed alternatives to suburban zoning merely swap one restrictive code for another. Only by loosening zoning to allow new combinations of home and work will we be able to bring innovative design to bear on the single-family house.
But new housing forms also demand new types of financing. Starting in the 1990s, subprime lenders targeted low-income and minority suburbs like Cicero, even when many residents would have qualified for prime loans. Latino homeowners tend to disproportionately invest savings in their homes, and as a result they lost two-thirds of their wealth between 2005 and 2009.
One long-term solution would be a type of co-op in which residents buy and sell shares according to their changing needs and circumstances. Unlike traditional co-ops, residents could purchase shares corresponding only to the units they occupy, not the land beneath, which remains in the hands of a ''community land trust.'' Such a structure would keep housing costs down while limiting residents' exposure to the market. It would also provide a backstop for struggling homeowners, since the trust would have the legal right to step in and assist residents in the event of foreclosure.
Land trusts have thrived on a small scale in New York City and Chicago, among other places. The federal government should now scale up the efforts by transferring some of the nearly 250,000 foreclosed homes acquired by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration into a national trust or a series of local trusts.
Even after the housing crisis is over, we will need to build connections among local government officials, policy makers, financial institutions, residents and architects. Solving the slump requires a multidisciplinary approach combining new design, new paths to homeownership and new zoning to support both -- in Cicero and beyond.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOOHEE YOON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); FAMILY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); FORECLOSURE (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); EXHIBITIONS (67%); BIOREMEDIATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



394 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 5257 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
- American Folk Art Museum: 'Jubilation Rumination: Life, Real and Imagined' (through Sept 2) Having escaped the ugly, West 53rd Street tomb of a building it inhabited from 2001 to 2011, the American Folk Art Museum has reoccupied its old space on Lincoln Square. This wonderful show of about 100 works from the permanent collection samples all the varieties of artistic expression under the museum's purview, from portraits and quilts by anonymous craftspeople to otherworldly fantasies envisioned by so-called Outsiders like Henry Darger and Martin Ramirez. The revival of this irreplaceable institution is cause of rejoicing. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue, at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
Asia Society and Museum: 'Sarah Sze: Infinite Line' (through March 25) Promising a new angle on Sarah Sze's mesmerizing, minutely detailed installations, this midcareer solo reveals that Ms. Sze, who is Chinese-American, has been profoundly influenced by many forms of Asian art. It also includes some of her rarely exhibited drawings and encourages you to see her three-dimensional artworks as drawings in space. Implicitly, it de-emphasizes the prosaic nature of her art materials: the cotton swabs, toothpicks, bottle caps and other throwaway objects that she fashions, with gee-whiz structural ingenuity, into rambling landscapes and galactic spirals. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
- The Cloisters: 'The Game of Kings: Medieval Ivory Chessmen From the Isle of Lewis' (through April 22) In 1831, a farmer on the Isle of Lewis, the largest island of the Outer Hebrides, discovered a lost cache of medieval chess pieces. Today, thanks to ''Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,'' in which Harry and Ron play with magically animated replicas of them, the Lewis Chessmen are world famous. On tour from the British Museum, these adorable, bug-eyed little kings, queens, bishops, knights and warders, each beautifully carved from walrus ivory, are wonderful to examine up close. You don't have to be a chess player or a Harry Potter fan to love them. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Frick Collection: 'White Gold: Highlights From the Arnhold Collection of Meissen Porcelain' (through April 29) Porcelain lovers will not want to miss this show of domestic ware made in Germany in the early 1700s, but the big news is the new wing, the Portico Gallery, that it inaugurates. The Frick has transformed an outdoor colonnade into an indoor exhibition space. Floor to ceiling windows enclose a long, narrow space that feels bigger and airier than its actual 850 square feet. In the small rotunda at one end, a life-size, nude Diana by Jean-Antoine Houdon looks out over the traffic on Fifth Avenue with divine indifference. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Johnson)
International Center of Photography: 'The Loving Story: Photographs by Grey Villet' (through May 6) Richard and Mildred Loving, an interracial couple from Virginia whose marriage prompted a benchmark 1967 Supreme Court ruling overturning state miscegenation laws, are portrayed not as political activists, but as political heroes who fell into history by accident. The story began on July 11, 1958, when a Virginia county sheriff and two deputies entered the Lovings' bedroom at 2 a.m. and arrested them, saying they had violated the Racial Integrity Act. Mr. Villet's images represent the heyday of social documentary, but also the midcentury photo-essay format. Ms. Loving later became a conscious activist when, on the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling, she made a statement supporting the right to marry, whether ''black or white, young or old, gay or straight.'' 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Martha Schwendener)
- International Center of Photography: 'Weegee: Murder Is My Business' (through Sept. 2) From the home of Weegee's voluminous archive, the latest exhibition about this great documentary photographer (1899-1968) revisits his frenetic, formative first decade of work, starting in 1935, when his often sensational images of murder and mayhem appeared New York's daily newspapers. His penchant for self-promotion; the work of his competitors and peers; the evolution of tabloid journalism; and the great city that was both his subject and his audience are emphasized, with fresh curatorial precision and deftly used touch screens. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Roberta Smith)
- Jewish Museum: 'The Radical Camera: New York's Photo League, 1936-1951' (through March 25) One of many artistic casualties of the McCarthy-era blacklists was the Photo League, a New York school and salon for amateur and professional photographers. Its members -- among them Weegee, Lisette Model and Aaron Siskind -- are now reunited in this stirring show, which traces the group's history through some 145 vintage photographs. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Chinese Art in an Age of Revolution: Fu Baoshi (1904-1965)' (through April 15) Serene on the surface but less so underneath, the museum's first full-dress retrospective of a 20th-century Chinese painter is as much about history as art history. It focuses on an artist, teacher and art historian who helped preserve the ancient tradition of ink painting and then struggled to make it relevant under the Communists, bending it toward propaganda, introducing a new degree of realism and making frequent use of the color red. While fascinating, the show leaves you wondering what he might have accomplished under less encumbered circumstances. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Infinite Jest: Caricature and Satire From Leonardo to Levine' (through March 4) It is not nice to make fun of other people, but it is hard to resist. This fascinating and often amusing show presents about 160 drawings and prints from six centuries in which men and women appear ugly, weird, venal and foolish. The show shies away from troublemaking work by contemporary artists, but examples of exceptional draftsmanship and satiric imagination from the past abound. Watercolors by the great British cartoonists James Gillray and Thomas Rowlandson alone make a visit rewarding. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Renaissance Portrait From Donatello to Bellini' (through March 18) This magisterial, intensely thought-provoking show presents about 160 works by the most celebrated masters of 15th-century Italian painting and sculpture. It was a time when ancient Greek and Roman precedents inspired artists to create extraordinarily lively images of people in two and three dimensions. The dialogue between painting and sculpture is especially intriguing. Desiderio da Settignano's marble bust of a lovely young woman with a strikingly expressive, coquettish expression creates an illusion of fleeting real life that painters could only envy. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Storytelling in Japanese Art' (through May 6) An uncannily contemporary sense of fluidity, action and emotion courses throughout this captivating exhibition, which traces the Japanese penchant for narrative through hand scrolls, hanging scrolls and books, on to the expanded field of folding screens. The sublime 13th-century ''Illustrated Legends of the Kitano Tenjin Shrine'' alone is a must-see: its five hand scrolls constitute one of the Met's greatest paintings and have never before been shown together. Return visits are merited, especially since several substitutions on Wednesday for conservation reasons. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
- MoMA PS1: 'Henry Taylor' (through April 9) Mr. Taylor, who lives in Los Angeles, paints fast, loose and sensuously on canvases great and small. Portraiture is his work's center of gravity, African-American life his subject. With exuberant generosity, he portrays friends, relatives, acquaintances from the art world and off the street and heroes of sports and politics. Along the way, he takes in downbeat cityscapes patrolled by cop cars and envisions allegories of spiritual trauma in the Land of the Free. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Rembrandt's World: Dutch Drawings From the Clement C. Moore Collection' (through April 29) You won't see much of Rembrandt in this exhibition of about 90 works on paper, which includes just four drawings attributed to that master. What the show lacks in star power, though, it makes up for with a keen, all-encompassing look at life in the Dutch Republic during its Golden Age (which corresponds, roughly, to the 17th century). Seascapes assert naval dominance; genre scenes show bustling markets and tipsy taverngoers; botanical illustrations tell cautionary tales about economic speculation. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: Sanja Ivekovic: 'Sweet Violence' (through March 26) This timely and resonant survey familiarizes American audiences with the spare, selfless achievement of this pioneering Croatian artist, born in Zagreb in 1949. Conceptual in style, photo- and performance-based in approach, political in motivation, ardently and precisely feminist, her work makes use of materials at hand -- personal photographs, women's magazines, state-sponsored television, even government surveillance -- to dissect different forms of power and illuminate the plight of the powerless, while also presaging familiar developments in appropriation art and relational aesthetics to a startling degree. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Diego Rivera: Murals for the Museum of Modern Art' (through May 14) This show reunites five of the eight free-standing frescoes that Rivera made for a 1931-32 exhibition at MoMA. Some of these paintings seem ripped from current headlines. In ''The Uprising,'' protesting laborers are brutally suppressed by uniformed soldiers; the stratified New York cityscape of ''Frozen Assets'' tops a bank vault with a crowded homeless shelter. Timely as they are, they lack the multitudinous energy and narrative sweep of Rivera's permanently sited murals. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of the City of New York: 'Cecil Beaton: The New York Years' (through Feb. 20) A British dandy in the Wildean mold, Beaton photographed fashion for Vogue and Vanity Fair; made photographic portraits of rich, famous and glamorous people; drew and painted cartoons, caricatures, fashion illustrations and theatrical sets with a deft hand; published six volumes of his diaries; and won two Oscars for his costume and set designs, for the Hollywood movies ''Gigi'' and ''My Fair Lady.'' He spent much time in New York, and this entertaining exhibition surveys what he did here during his five-decade career. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)
Neue Galerie: 'The Ronald S. Lauder Collection: Selections From the 3rd Century B.C. to the 20th Century/Germany, Austria and France' (through April 2) Since it opened 10 years ago, the Neue Galerie has stayed true to its narrowly focused mission: to showcase German and Austrian art and design of the early 20th century. But its anniversary exhibition of the collection of the co-founder Ronald S. Lauder covers much more territory. In the dark-wood-paneled gallery on the second floor, for instance, six paintings by Cezanne preside over an imposing installation of arms and armor and 15th- and 16th-century German and Netherlandish portraiture. And a third-floor gallery of Picasso, Matisse and Brancusi amounts to a mini-Museum of Modern Art improbably wedged into a Carrere-and-Hastings town house. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
Noguchi Museum: 'Civic Action: A Vision for Long Island City' (through April 22) Several artists suggest their visions for the future of Long Island City, ranging from site-specific to silly. Natalie Jeremijenko's ''feral robots'' sniff out pollutants in contaminated soil, and she suggests hula hoops filled with wildflower seeds. Rirkrit Tiravanija proposes growing ''drivable'' grass along a section of Broadway, and Mary Miss focuses on four giant smokestacks that tower over the area and imagines them as an eco-feedback center registering environmental changes visible to the community. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Schwendener)
- Studio Museum in Harlem: 'The Bearden Project' (through March 11) Of the many New York City events celebrating the Romare Bearden centennial year, the Studio Museum has come up with the best in this sparkling cross-generational shout-out to the artist. In addition to a small handful of superb works by Bearden himself, the show is made up of tributes by a hundred contemporary artists, old and young, who together extend Bearden's cosmopolitan, griot-to-the-global-village spirit into the future. 144 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
- Swiss Institute Contemporary Art: 'Jean-Frederic Schnyder' (through Feb. 26) The first New York show of this lapsed Swiss Conceptualist, who was born in 1945 and represented his country at the 1993 Venice Biennale, is a characteristic mix of benign and barbed, as well as of painting, sculpture and video. The 35 small, delectable paintings of ''Landscape'' bivouac at the border of art and kitsch, tackling themes of hearth and home, taste and cliche, while a video parade of bottles of schnapps implicates the tourist industry. It's deceptively tidy, deeply Swiss satire. 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 925-2035, swissinstitute.net. (Smith)
Galleries: Uptown
'Hats: An Anthology by Stephen Jones' (through April 15) This wide-ranging survey was assembled by one of the leading milliners in Britain and draws heavily on the incomparable collection of the Victoria and Albert Museum. It includes fascinating historical material; a survey of 20th- and 21st-century headgear at its most creative (and often most frivolous); and rather too many efforts by the show's organizer. But what's good is great: for example, a platterlike feather number from 18th-century London. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
- Jordan Wolfson (through Feb. 18) This brilliant New York gallery debut consists of ''Animation, masks,'' a 12-minute 29-second digital animation that rivets the ear and the eye while perturbing the mind, not unlike an exquisite Faberge egg that explodes in your face. It turns its medium inside out, rejuvenates appropriation art with richly contrasted images and roils sundry stereotypes, starting with a high-definition Shylockian lover boy. The color alone is extraordinary; the totality is an extensively barbed classic for our stubbornly sentimental, tragically materialist times. Alex Zachary Peter Currie, 16 East 77th Street, (212) 628-0189, azpcgallery.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Bryan Drury: 'Portraits' (through Feb. 25) Mr. Drury's six finely painted, intensely realistic panel paintings appear to be conventionally old-fashioned portraits of middle-aged rich folks. But the closer you look, the weirder they seem. There is a reptilian feeling about them. They might be extraterrestrial beings who have donned human disguises in their mission to take over Earth. Dean Project, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 229-2017, deanproject.com. (Johnson)
- Damien Hirst: 'The Complete Spot Paintings 1986-2011' (through Feb. 18) The formerly young British artist's spot-painting summation may be spread throughout the 11 emporiums of the worldwide Gagosian franchise, but New York is bearing the brunt, with 115 of the total 331 distributed among three galleries, one of which (980 Madison) could count as four shows on its own. Despite the consistency of the formula, a typically Hirstian range of quality, from good to atrocious, prevails. Some are engaging paintings; others aren't really paintings at all. Similarly, at least one installation -- at West 21st Street -- is ravishing; others are oppressive, best suited for the artist's most hard-core fans. Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, near 76th Street, (212) 744-2313; 555 West 24th Street, Chelsea; (212) 741-1111; and 522 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com. (Smith)
- Joyce Pensato: 'Batman Returns' (through Feb. 25) In her latest show of perky cartoon characters gone over to the dark side, the painter Joyce Pensato embraces installation art with the deranged determination of a supervillain -- surrounding her canvases with heaps of plush toys and assorted props from the studio. Although the exhibition is titled ''Batman Returns,'' perhaps in homage to the 1992 Tim Burton film, Ms. Pensato's vision of the caped crusader is all her own. Her drippy enamel-on-linen paintings of the hero's mask strip away his trust fund and cave full of bat-gizmos, making him into a mythic, messy presence. Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 537 West 22nd Street, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Rosenberg)
Weegee: 'Naked City' / Vivian Maier (through Feb. 25) Two careers in street photography -- markedly different in sensibility and visibility -- are contrasted in side-by-side shows. The raw, exuberant tabloid art of the famous Weegee (1899-1968) is manifest in a display of 125 images from throughout his career. Meanwhile, the secretive, recently discovered photographer Vivian Maier (1926-2009) took pictures ceaselessly, pursuing a style as unobtrusive as Weegee's is loud and in your face, but no less assured. Steven Kasher Gallery, 521 West 23rd Street, (212) 966-3978, stevenkasher.com. (Smith)
- Doug Wheeler (through Feb. 25) Stepping through the fourth wall into Mr. Wheeler's luminous, futuristically titled installation ''SA MI 75 DZ NY 12'' (2012) is like entering a giant marshmallow. Because all surfaces are snowy white, corners seamlessly coved and the whole brightly lighted, it seems as if you are in a space of possibly infinite extent. It might be a preview of the universal divine light into which each of us will merge, according to some mystics, when we die. David Zwirner, 519 West 19th Street, (212) 517-8677, davidzwirner.com. (Johnson)
Galleries: Other
'Gran Fury: Ready My Lips' (through March 17) A collective that grew out of Act Up (AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power) and took its name from a New York City police car, Gran Fury existed from the end of 1989 until the mid-'90s. The political climate of that period informs the show, as well as downtown Manhattan's landscape of graffiti, posters and stickers. ''Kissing Doesn't Kill'' (1990), a series of posters displayed on buses, defied contemporary claims that AIDS could be spread by kissing, while ''Read My Lips'' turned George H. W. Bush's famous campaign line into a homoerotic provocation. The haircuts and clothes in the works are dated, but the sentiments overlap powerfully with current activism and the Occupy movement. 80WSE, New York University, 80 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-5747, steinhardt.nyu.edu/80wse. (Schwendener)
Rashid Johnson: 'Rumble' (through Feb. 25) As this putative star's career accelerates, his work becomes slicker and emptier, a pastiche of styles and strategies past and present. The main effect of pieces involving red-oak flooring branded with motifs resembling a rifle's cross hairs, or mosaic mirrors and bronze reliefs defaced with viscous spews of black, is of glamorous baubles with just the right amount of titillating shock value. Only the unsettling, subtly charged, ultimately poignant combination of swagger and self-mockery of the video ''The New Black Yoga'' feels genuine. Hauser & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 794-4970, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
- 'Marble Sculpture From 350 B.C. to Last Week' and 'Portraits/Self-Portraits From the 16th to the 21st Century' (through Feb. 25) Filling nearly four floors of pristine gallery space, these two exhibitions romp in lively, even wicked ways through a succession of periods and styles, with continuity provided by what's called the ''ideal'' sculptural material in one case and the human visage in the other. The result is a deliciously nonacademic exercise in looking and a robust reminder that, wherever we may think we are in terms of art, the past is rarely far behind, nor irrelevant. Sperone Westwater, 257 Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com. (Smith)
'Soto: Paris and Beyond: 1950-1970' (through March 31) Once a figure of international renown, Jesus Soto is now mostly remembered as a minor Modernist who worked in the overlap among hard-edge abstraction, kinetic art and Op Art. This show will not precipitate a run to revive his reputation, but it does open an intriguing window on the mid-20th-century philosophical landscape of modern art. Still perceptually arresting are constructions from the '50s, in which you view abstract compositions through similarly painted plexiglass panels. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
Out of Town
Neuberger Museum of Art: 'American Vanguards: Graham, Davis, Gorky, de Kooning, and Their Circle, 1927-1942' (through April 29) This exhibition, organized by the Addison Gallery of American Art in Andover, Mass., reunites the Four Musketeers of New York painting: John Graham, Arshile Gorky, Stuart Davis and Willem de Kooning. For a time -- the 1930s, give or take a few years -- these artists linked arms to defend modern American art against the dreariness and insularity of the Depression. One might see this show as an expansion of the first few galleries of the Museum of Modern Art's recent de Kooning retrospective, with their eerie still lifes and fidgety figure paintings that seemed to collapse abstraction and representation. Purchase College, State University of New York, 735 Anderson Hill Road, Purchase, N.Y., (914) 251-6100, neuberger.org. (Rosenberg)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Zoe Strauss: Ten Years' (through April 22) In 2001 Ms. Strauss came up with an unusual idea for an exhibition. It would take place under an elevated section of Interstate 95, in her home city, Philadelphia, and would consist of photographs mounted on the columns that supported the highway. It would be a recurring event, appearing yearly over a decade, and would be free and accessible to the public. That series, ''I-95,'' is at the core of ''Zoe Strauss: Ten Years,'' an engaging, parameter-expanding exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and on billboards around the city. In it, the highway links sweeping literary ambition and local interest, lyrical and documentary photography, portraiture and the urban landscape. Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
- Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Van Gogh Up Close' (through May 6) Nature both inspired van Gogh's extraordinary art and calmed his perpetually jangled nerves, and this modest yet groundbreaking show of 45 often small, unfamiliar canvases -- devoted almost entirely to landscapes -- examines his crucial connection to its bounty. The selection cuts a narrow, well-organized path through his art, examining the terrains he painted, the often close-up viewpoints he used and the shifting topographies of his paint textures, leading us to the fullness of his achievement along a fresh and eye-opening route. Benjamin Franklin Parkway and 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
Last Chance
- 'Anonymous Tantra Paintings' (closes on Sunday) In this radiant exhibition of 37 small works by anonymous followers of Tantrism, modest but vividly colored geometric shapes reign supreme, like the deities or spiritual concepts they represent, over the carefully studied imperfections of scraps of found paper. To marshal two overused art terms, the figure-ground relationship becomes intensely, even exquisitely site-specific. The relationship of form, meaning and material so basic to abstract painting is newly revealed. And a mind, Tantrist or not, can be quietly blown. Feature Inc., 131 Allen Street, near Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 675-7772, featureinc.com. (Smith)
Lee Bontecou: 'Recent Work: Sculpture and Drawing' (closes on Saturday) If Terry Gilliam were to make a movie based on Thomas Pynchon's ''Against the Day,'' he might consider Ms. Bontecou's recent suspended sculptures as models for the airship Inconvenience. They have bowed, sail-like parts that seem as if filled by a steady, ethereal wind and slender, soldered wire structures like sleds attached below. On paper, Ms. Bontecou envisions submarine worlds where bug-eyed, toothy fish are refracted by watery swirls. Freedman Art, 25 East 73rd Street, (212) 249-2040, freedmanart.com. (Johnson)
Brooklyn Museum: 'Hide/Seek: Difference and Desire in American Portraiture' (closes on Sunday) Like many events that are the first of their kind, this sampling of the roles of same-sex desire -- and unconventional notions of masculinity and femininity -- in over 100 years of American portraiture feels both overdue and a little behind the times. Despite exemplary works by Marsden Hartley, Jasper Johns and Robert Mapplethorpe, it is more sketchy overview than thorough examination and often errs on the side of mild-mannered caution. But it illuminates aspects of mainstream art that have long been hiding in the light, and it both makes and remakes history. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Smith)
- Lori Ellison (through Saturday) This small survey encapsulates nearly 15 years spent vivifying letter-size pieces of paper -- and small canvases or panels -- with a range of tiny organic or geometric shapes (especially triangles), rendering primarily one or two radiant tones of ink or gouache (especially blue). The fluctuating patterns that result are effortless yet formidably focused, austere yet lushly opulent, flat-footed yet unquestionably mystical, minute yet infinite. They suggest that originality may be little more than simply being quiet enough to hear yourself. McKenzie Fine Art, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-5467, mckenziefineart.com. (Smith)
Matt Hoyt: '2006-2011' (closes on Sunday) Displayed on wooden shelves in groups of two to six, Mr. Hoyt's sculptures look like nondescript found objects. Some resemble pieces of plastic plumbing; others are like small, rounded rocks. One could be a braded bracelet, another a piece of chicken bone. Learning that he made them out of clay, putty, paint and other materials turns them into epistemological thought experiments: what is real when appearances deceive? Bureau, 127 Henry Street, Lower East Side, (212) 227-2783, bureau-inc.com. (Johnson)
- 'Interiors: Pierre Bonnard, Marc Camille Chaimowicz, William Copley, Edouard Vuillard' (closes on Saturday) This exhibition lets some fresh air into the ''Intimist'' rooms of Bonnard and Vuillard, with help from the contemporary installation artist Marc Camille Chaimowicz and the late-Surrealist painter William N. Copley. Mr. Chaimowicz's untitled wallpaper makes an excellent backdrop for Bonnard's ''Breakfast Room'' (1925), on loan from the Brooklyn Museum; the broad, squiggly contour lines in Mr. Copley's paintings confuse figures and interiors, as does a small Vuillard oil of a matronly woman whose green jacket matches the drapes on her French windows. Andrew Kreps, 525 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 741-8849, andrewkreps.com. (Rosenberg)
- Kim MacConnel: 'Pleasure' (through Saturday) Anyone interested in art that dissented from the Minimalist-Conceptualist hegemony of the 1970s will want to catch the still-fresh vehemence of the five intensely colored, suavely offhand paintings on relatively flimsy fabric with which Mr. MacConnel laid the foundation for the still-pertinent Pattern and Decoration movement. Fluctuating wittingly between Matisse cutouts and Hawaiian shirts, they are sights for sore eyes, and a recent work indicates that their instigator retains his chops. Salomon Contemporary, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-0607, salomoncontemporary.com. (Smith)
- James Nares: '1976: Movies, Photographs and Related Works on Paper' (closes on Saturday) Lower Manhattan in the 1970s is part laboratory, part playground in this show of wildly experimental early films and photo-conceptual documents by James Nares. When these works were made, Mr. Nares hadn't developed his signature single-brush-stroke paintings, but he was honing his intensely physical formula by swinging giant pendulums through desolate alleys. The ball moves with a metronomic steadiness, but Mr. Nares's camerawork is restless and unpredictable; the combination is totally gripping. Paul Kasmin, 515 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Rosenberg)
'On Kawara: Date Painting(s) in New York and 136 Other Cities' (closes on Saturday) This exhibition, at two adjacent spaces in Chelsea, collects about 150 paintings from Mr. Kawara's ''Today'' project; it includes the earliest work in the series (from 1966) and paintings made just this month. Each canvas consists of the day, month and year of its making, recorded in white sans-serif text on a solid, usually black background. The installation (supervised by Mr. Kawara) separates New York paintings from those made in other cities (which start to look like passport stamps). But it's hard to come away from this show without confronting the existentialism behind these one-day-at-a-time paintings. David Zwirner, 525 and 533 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2070, davidzwirner.com. (Rosenberg)
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Real/Surreal' (closes on Sunday) Seeing this exhibition is like visiting your grandmother's attic and finding it loaded with forgotten treasures. The lonesome Romanticism of Edward Hopper and Joe Jones; the Magic Realism of Peter Blume and Paul Cadmus; the nightmarish urban visions of George Tooker and Louis Guglielmi; Yves Tanguy's otherworldly blobs in space; and Andrew Wyeth's dead crow in a winter field: these and many more vividly realistic and surrealistic works from the 1930s to the early '50s capture a mood of dreadful unease that gripped the mid-20th-century American psyche and that, in many ways, still does. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Johnson)
'Luminous Modernism: Scandinavian Art Comes to America, 1912' (closes on Saturday) In 1912 a big exhibition of contemporary art from Scandinavia opened in New York to much acclaim. Revisiting that show, ''Luminous Modernism'' presents 48 paintings and drawings mostly from the first decade of the 20th century. Twenty of the artists and eight of the works that were in the 1912 exhibition are included. Highlights include gloomy, Vermeer-like paintings by Vilhelm Hammershoi, of Denmark, and Edvard Munch's explosive ''Girl Under the Apple Tree,'' which alone is worth the visit. Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 779-3587, scandinaviahouse.org. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'HIDE/SEEK: DIFFERENCE AND DESIRE IN AMERICAN PORTRAITURE': (closes on Sunday) Like many events that are the first of their kind, this sampling of the roles of same-sex desire -- and unconventional notions of masculinity and femininity -- in over 100 years of American portraiture feels both overdue and a little behind the times. Despite exemplary works by Marsden Hartley, Jasper Johns and Robert Mapplethorpe, it is more sketchy overview than thorough examination and often errs on the side of mild-mannered caution. But it illuminates aspects of mainstream art that have long been hiding in the light, and it both makes and remakes history. (Above: ''River Front No. 1,'' 1915, by George Wesley Bellows.) 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOWALD FUND PURCHASE, COLUMBUS MUSEUM OF ART, OHIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); BOARD GAMES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



395 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
7 P.M. (USA) NFL CHARACTERS UNITE Tony Gonzalez of the Atlanta Falcons, Jimmy Graham of the New Orleans Saints, Hines Ward of the Pittsburgh Steelers (above right, with Carlton Dennis, a student) and Tony Dungy, a former head coach for the Indianapolis Colts and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, discuss the hate and bigotry they overcame as children to find success in pro football. This documentary also follows the men as they work with teenagers mired in similar situations. 
1 P.M. (BET) AMERICAN VIOLET (2009) Nicole Beharie is Dee Roberts, a young African-American mother of four who is charged with distributing narcotics in a school zone in her small Texas town and risks going to trial instead of accepting a plea bargain for a crime she insists she didn't commit. Xzibit plays the father of her two youngest children; his desire for custody may be at the root of Dee's predicament. Michael O'Keefe is the local district attorney who is sued for racial discrimination by an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer (Tim Blake Nelson) on Dee's behalf. And Alfre Woodard is her mother. Writing in The New York Times, Stephen Holden said that this film from Tim Disney, based on real events in 2000, is ''beautifully acted by Ms. Beharie, whose high-strung character is no angel.'' The film was selected as a New York Times Critics' Pick.
8 P.M. (Encore) THE SORCERER'S APPRENTICE (2010) Balthazar Blake (Nicolas Cage, below) -- a 1,000-year-old master wizard in modern-day Manhattan -- takes on a reluctant protege, Dave Stutler (Jay Baruchel), a lovelorn physics major at New York University, who Balthazar has decided is the Prime Merlinian. That means that he's the only person who can save the world from Balthazar's nemesis, Maxim Horvath (Alfred Molina), and the cataclysm that will be unleashed if two other bad wizards, the mean Morgana (Alice Krige) and the gorgeous Veronica (Monica Bellucci), are released from a Russian doll in which they were hidden centuries before. ''Why would Balthazar and Maxim -- magicians who can fly, change shape and conjure force fields, fireballs and just about anything else they want -- need to climb into cars and chase each other through the streets of New York?,'' A. O Scott wrote in The Times. ''I put that question to a colleague, who condescendingly replied, 'because it's a Jerry Bruckheimer movie.' Duh. But still. It's stupid.''
9 P.M. (CBS) CSI: NY Two seemingly unrelated deaths -- one resulting from a fall down the stairs, the other from an arrow to the chest -- lead the team to a surprising conclusion.
9 P.M. (ABC) PRIMETIME: WHAT WOULD YOU DO? John Quinones reports on the reactions of people as they confront situations that seem to cry out for action. Among them: a mother who tries to persuade strangers to listen to her baby through a monitor while she ''takes a break''; a child from a vegan family who asks customers in a restaurant if he can try their meat when his mother steps away; a makeup artist who insists on offering products to cover a woman's birthmark instead of showing her the lipstick she has requested; and a therapist who tells a gay teenager that he can change his sexuality by ''praying it away.''
9:20 P.M. (Cinemax) DUE DATE (2010) Robert Downey Jr. plays Peter, an architect on his way to the birth of his first child when he is kicked off a plane and loses his wallet. Zach Galifianakis (far right with Mr. Downey) is Ethan, the rube with a bad perm who offers him a ride across country. For the director Todd Phillips (''The Hangover''), ''a hero's journey doesn't mean betterment for all,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. ''It's about giggling into the wind while riding shotgun in a world of trouble.''
10 P.M. (13) LIVE FROM THE ARTISTS DEN The Fray performs hits like ''How to Save a Life,'' ''Over My Head'' and ''You Found Me,'' as well as its current single ''Heartbeat,'' at the Angel Orensanz Center on the Lower East Side.
10 P.M. (CMT) LAST DATES BEFORE I DO A young engaged couple test their commitment by dating other people just two weeks before their wedding, as encouraged by Steve Arterburn, the founder of New Life Ministries.
10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER Zanny Minton Beddoes, the economics editor of The Economist; Reihan Salam, a writer and policy analyst for The Daily and National Review; and the Rev. Al Sharpton are seated at the round table. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF SWENSEN/USA NETWORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); RACE & RACISM (70%); LAWYERS (70%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (84%); ATLANTA FALCONS (84%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (84%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (58%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (58%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (55%)

PERSON: NICOLAS CAGE (50%); JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



396 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: After a Knifing, a Fire and a Son's Death, Resilience

BYLINE: By ANASTASIA ECONOMIDES

 BODY:
Isabella Rivera, 86, had expected to live out a quiet, peaceful life in her golden years. But she did not count on the naked attacker armed with a knife. She did not count on losing a second son to illness. And she did not count on being forced out of her home because of a fire.
The triple dose of tragedies came in a six-month period this summer, leaving Ms. Rivera, a widow, shaken, grieving, but determined to keep going -- even though she is having a hard time sleeping.
It started one afternoon in August. The police said that Christian Falero, 23, went around the co-op building where he lived in Washington Heights, naked and randomly knocking on doors. When people answered, the police said, he slashed them with a 10-inch kitchen knife. Ms. Rivera and three other tenants fell victim to the rampage: two of her neighbors died. Her home attendant, Zoila Lopez, was punched in the face and knocked down, and Ms. Rivera was seriously injured. 
''He twisted the knife inside my neck,'' she said. ''The doctors don't know how I lived. I was on blood thinners.''
Her son Edwin Rivera, 62, who was battling cancer and lived across the hall, witnessed the attack from his peephole, Ms. Rivera said.
Mr. Falero was found mentally incompetent to stand trial and is being held at the Kirby Forensic Psychiatric Center on Wards Island.
Ms. Rivera said she had known Mr. Falero since he was a child. ''I held him in my arms when he was a baby,'' she said, showing the scars from the slashing on her right forearm, right leg and neck.
After Ms. Rivera was treated for her wounds, she went home to recuperate. Then, in September, she noticed water leaking from her ceiling. An electrical fire had started in an apartment a few floors above; after firefighters put out the blaze, Ms. Rivera's apartment was left uninhabitable because of severe fire and water damage.
Her son Edwin had been in the process of moving upstate, and another son, Marcus, was living in a walk-up apartment in the Bronx that would have been hard for Ms. Rivera to get to. So a close family friend, Manuel Vasquez, and his wife opened their home, two blocks away from the fire-damaged building, to Ms. Rivera.
''She's my second mother,'' Mr. Vasquez said. ''It's so sad; life is hitting her hard.''
For now, Ms. Rivera pays $150 a week to live in a brightly lighted room with a comfortable full-size bed in the Vasquez home.
Recently, contractors completed an inspection of her own apartment, and repair work is scheduled to begin this month. Ms. Rivera, who came to New York from Puerto Rico with her husband at age 18, had lived in the apartment since 1967. Now, furniture saved from the fire is piled up in the kitchen and another room. The ceilings in the bathroom and Ms. Rivera's bedroom are nonexistent. The linoleum in various rooms is peeled away from the wooden floors, and Sheetrock is torn from the walls. Family photographs from Puerto Rico were destroyed, Ms. Rivera said.
But the kitchen, where she had enjoyed spending much of her time, looked intact.
''I just want to cook in my kitchen again,'' Ms. Rivera said. ''I like making rice and beans, tostones and my own coffee.''
The city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development requires that Ms. Rivera continue to pay her share of the maintenance fee for her apartment, $153 a month, to keep the unit. The rest is subsidized.
With her monthly income of $688 in Social Security benefits and $148 in Supplemental Security Income, Ms. Rivera can barely afford anything else. She turned to Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which drew $918 from the fund to pay the fee for her apartment for six months.
But in January, Ms. Rivera was dealt another blow. Her son Edwin succumbed to liver cancer. Ms. Rivera said she could not believe she had to bury another child: her son Bobby died of a heart attack in the 1980s.
Clutching a rosary bead necklace, her nails glistening with the gray polish that her home attendant's daughter had painted on them, Ms. Rivera began tearing up as she recounted the turmoil of the past six months.
''Vivo dia por dia,'' she said. I live day by day.
Ms. Rivera said she was grateful for the extended family that God had given her over the years.
''You don't find too many people like her,'' said Ms. Lopez, her home attendant of seven years, who sometimes lies beside her and chats about life until she falls asleep.
Ms. Rivera keeps her mind busy playing computer games and burning CDs of salsa music. She said her son Marcus had promised her a new computer when she returned home.
''Mal tiempo, buena cara,'' she said. In bad times, show a good face.
HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All donations are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN COMMUNITY SERVICES 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or at nytimes.com /neediest. To find out how to donate stock, call (212) 556- 1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. In recognition of its 100th anniversary and to thank its loyal donors for their generosity over the years, the fund will send gifts to individuals who donate $250 or more to the 2011-12 campaign, beginning Nov. 6, while supplies last. Gifts of $250 - $499: a boxed set of note cards, valued at $15.95. Gifts of $500 - $999: a 2012 journal valued at $39.99. Gifts of $1,000 and over: a $50 gift card from The New York Times Store. If you do not wish to receive a gift with your donation, please drop us a note along with your check. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The New York Times Company pays all administrative costs of the fund, so every dollar donated to the fund goes directly to serve those in need. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Please note that for federal income tax purposes, you may be eligible to deduct as a charitable contribution the amount of your contribution less the value of the gift as indicated above. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10271. To delay may mean to forget

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In August, Isabella Rivera was attacked when she opened her door to a knife-wielding man. In September, she had to move after a fire in her building. She now rents a room from friends. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Previously recorded $6,396,314, Recorded Wed. 80,294, Total $6,476,608, Last year to date $5,961,716 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); FORENSICS (75%); CANCER (72%); ANTICOAGULANTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



397 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Claims for Jobless Benefits Fall, Suggesting a Trend

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The number of Americans signing up for unemployment benefits fell unexpectedly last week, the latest sign of recovery in the nation's labor market. 
Initial claims for state jobless benefits dropped 15,000, to 358,000, the Labor Department said on Thursday. A four-week average of new filings, which provides a better view of the trend, hit its lowest level since April 2008.
The decline in first-time claims, which defied economists' forecasts for a rise to 370,000, pointed to building strength in the labor market and improved the chances of another increase in employment this month.
''We are getting better employment growth and are seeing some signs that we are getting some self-sustaining aspects of economic activity,'' said Michael Strauss, chief economist at Commonfund in Wilton, Conn.
Other data on Thursday showed a jump in wholesale inventories in December, suggesting the government's fourth-quarter growth estimate could be revised higher.
But much will depend on the December trade data on Friday and a broader report on overall business inventories next week.
The recent string of upbeat data has raised doubts about whether the Federal Reserve will carry out a third round of bond buying to spur the recovery.
''It does reduce the risk of additional monetary accommodation, but I don't think it changes in any way the dial at the Fed for keeping rates accommodative, at least at these levels, for the foreseeable future,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior macro strategist at TD Securities in New York.
Fed officials have said they expect to keep interest rates low at least through late 2014.
Despite the brighter economic signs, about 23.8 million Americans are either out of work or underemployed, and there are no job openings for nearly three out of every four who are unemployed.
The number of people still receiving jobless benefits under regular state programs after an initial week of aid rose in the week ended Jan. 28. A total of 7.66 million people were claiming unemployment benefits in the week ended Jan. 21.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); TRENDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (75%); INVENTORIES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



398 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Settlement By S.E.C. In Subprime Fraud Case

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
The Securities and Exchange Commission has reached a settlement with two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers that will avert a second trial over accusations that they had misled investors as the mortgage market was crumbling.
The deal, which is subject to court approval, could be announced on Monday, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.
A trial was set to begin on Monday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. The former Bear executives, Ralph R. Cioffi and Matthew M. Tannin, were accused of lying to investors about the health of their hedge funds, which were laden with complex securities backed by subprime mortgages.
The settlement comes just as federal authorities have publicly vowed to redouble their efforts to hold Wall Street executives responsible for questionable conduct during the housing boom. 
A civil trial would have been the second trial against the former Bear executives. The Justice Department and the S.E.C. brought parallel criminal and civil charges against Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin in 2008.
The criminal case was viewed as an early test of the government's ability to win convictions tied to the subprime mortgage-related investments that banks sold during the housing boom.
When a jury acquitted both men in November 2009, the loss was seen as a major setback for the the Justice Department. The not-guilty verdict demonstrated that it would be challenging to build successful cases against Wall Street executives at the center of the financial crisis.
Battered by criticism that it had been an ineffective regulator before the financial crisis, the S.E.C. maintained that it would continue to pursue its case. But some legal specialists questioned whether it made any sense for the commission to take the lawsuit to trial.
''The government clearly had the power to do this, but the more salient question is whether this was the best use of their resources,'' said Daniel L. Zelenko, a partner at Crowell & Moring and a former S.E.C. lawyer. ''More than two years after a jury has already acquitted on substantially the same set of facts, it's not clear that it was.''
Bear's hedge funds were among the first prominent collapses related to the bursting of the housing bubble. When the mortgage market first became unglued in 2007, the two investment vehicles failed and investors lost $1.8 billion. The demise of the funds heralded the coming calamity on Wall Street.
Lawyers for Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin declined to comment, as did an S.E.C. spokesman.
One crucial issue that remains unclear is whether the two men will acknowledge any misconduct. Judges and legal commentators have criticized the commission for not forcing defendants to admit any wrongdoing when settling.
In recent weeks, there has been a flurry of activity in government investigations stemming from the financial crisis. Last week, federal prosecutors in Manhattan brought criminal charges against three former Credit Suisse traders, accusing them of inflating the value of their mortgage-bond portfolios to secure higher bonuses. Two of the traders have pleaded guilty.
During his State of the Union address last month, President Obama announced the formation of a multiagency financial crimes unit to prosecute mortgage-related fraud cases.
Robert S. Khuzami, the head of enforcement for the S.E.C., has said that the commission has already issued scores of subpoenas, analyzed more than 25 million pages of documents and interviewed scores of witnesses involved in the mortgage securities market.
''These mortgage products suffered unprecedented losses, and the pain and loss that followed is known all too well,'' said Mr. Khuzami, speaking about the new unit at a news conference last month. ''The job of the S.E.C. and my fellow law enforcement colleagues is to hold accountable those persons, those institutions who lied, who cheated and who misled investors in the sale of these products.''
Criminal defense lawyers have expressed concern over the creation of yet another task force, as this latest one follows several others that the government has formed since the financial crisis.
''We must distinguish what is criminal from what is reckless behavior and bad business decisions and not bow to the frenzy,'' said Mary Jo White, a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton and former United States attorney in Manhattan, speaking on a panel on Wednesday. ''You don't want the search for scalps to be the metric for success,'' she said.
Taking Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin to trial would have been risky for the S.E.C. It is highly unusual for the agency to try defendants in a civil case after a jury has acquitted them in a criminal trial.
''A loss would have called into question the government's apparent strategy of leaning heavily on civil litigation to handle crisis-related misconduct,'' said Neil M. Barofsky, a law professor at New York University and former inspector general of the Treasury Department's bank bailout program. ''And a poor trial performance could seriously have undermined the S.E.C.'s ability to achieve settlements in other cases.''
Mr. Tannin and Mr. Cioffi also had an incentive to settle, said several lawyers, because of the government's lower burden of proof in a civil securities fraud trial. Federal prosecutors needed to prove their case ''beyond a reasonable doubt,'' but the S.E.C. would have needed to prove only ''by a preponderance of the evidence'' that the defendants knowingly defrauded their investors.
Mr. Cioffi, once a highly regarded bond salesman at Bear, embodied the emergence of esoteric mortgage investment products as a dominant producer of Wall Street profits. He developed a specialty in structured finance securities, and in 2003, the bank put him in charge of a new hedge fund that would raise money from outside investors. He brought in Mr. Tannin, another Bear executive, as his partner.
The strategy of the fund was to invest in AAA-rated securities that were backed by pools of residential mortgages.
As the housing market boomed, the fund posted strong results. Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin earned millions of dollars. They then raised another fund that promised increased returns by using more borrowed money to invest. The fund with increased leverage borrowed more than $25 for every dollar invested in the fund.
When the housing market seized up in 2007, performance of the funds sank and investors headed for the exits. All the while, the government says, Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin publicly expressed confidence in the funds while privately voicing doubts about the market. By July 2007, the funds imploded.
At the criminal trial, federal prosecutors tried to simplify their case for the jury. Seeking to avoid arcane topics like collateralized debt obligations, credit-default swaps and repurchase agreements, the government focused on the truthfulness of the defendants.
''They did the best thing that they could think of to keep those investors in the fund and with any luck keep their bonuses coming,'' a prosecutor told the jury in his opening statement. ''They lied.''
The government's leading evidence were private e-mails that the fund managers sent to each other.
''I think we should close the funds now,'' Mr. Tannin wrote from a private e-mail account. He said that if certain analysts' reports were correct, ''the entire subprime market is toast.''
Days later, Mr. Tannin said on an investor call, ''we're very comfortable with exactly where we are.''
Defense lawyers argued that the two managers were merely debating how to position their portfolio given the market's perilous state.
After a monthlong trial, the jury found the Mr. Cioffi and Mr. Tannin not guilty after deliberating for less than a day. Jurors said at the time that the government had not proved its case.
''The entire market crashed,'' one juror said. ''You can't blame that on two people.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ralph Cioffi, top, in center, and Matthew Tannin, above, were charged with lying to investors about the health of their hedge funds. They were acquitted in a criminal case in late 2009. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LOUIS LANZANO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MISCONDUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ACQUITTAL (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); JUDGES (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); CROWELL & MORING LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



399 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Bonsai People: The Vision of Muhammad Yunus

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
Whatever the impulse behind Holly Mosher's glowing documentary ''Bonsai People: The Vision of Muhammad Yunus,'' the film -- save for a fleeting, easy-to-miss coda -- would work perfectly as an advertisement for microfinance in general and the Grameen Bank in particular. 
Part third-world cheerleading and part profile of Muhammad Yunus, the Bangladeshi economist whose bank upended traditional models to offer small loans to the poor, the film throngs with smiling faces. Most of these belong to the individual borrowers whose financial progress Ms. Mosher follows over the course of the movie: from a scrabbling beggar to a toothy entrepreneur with an accumulating portfolio of businesses ventures, these subjects are clearly benefiting from the bank's policies, despite the roughly 18 percent annual percentage rate.
A financial visionary whose empire also includes health care, disaster relief and renewable energy, Mr. Yunus pops up frequently to extol the virtues of the unfortunate and their inalienable right to credit, usually in hoary, if heartfelt, aphorisms. (The film's title refers to one of his folksy sayings comparing poor people to tiny trees.)
But while the border between business and philanthropy is a rocky platform that invites as much negative scrutiny as praise, Ms. Mosher prefers not to go down that particular hole. Also elided are the reasons that 97 percent of loan recipients are women, especially astonishing in Bangladesh, a primarily Muslim country. (For an unvarnished look at those reasons, who better to turn to than Oprah?)
Instead, all is sunshine and -- literally -- rainbows, with only superficial attention paid to defaulters or the problems of rapid growth. The result is a movie that feels more like a free-market sales pitch than like a critical look at one weapon in the poverty-fighting arsenal that may or may not offer long-term hope.
Opens on Friday in Manhattan. Directed by Holly Mosher In English and Bangladeshi, with English subtitles 1 hour 19 minutes; not rated

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kolpona in the documentary ''Bonsai People: The Vision of Muhammad Yunus.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOLLY MOSHER/HUMMINGBIRD PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MICROFINANCE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (53%)

COMPANY: GRAMEEN BANK (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) BANGLADESH (90%); UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: Bonsai People: The Vision of Muhammad Yunus (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



400 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: India Explores Economic Opportunities in Iran, Denting Western Sanctions Plan

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE; Artin Afkhami contributed reporting.

 BODY:
India emerged as a major new irritant on Thursday in Western efforts to isolate Iran, announcing that it was sending a large trade delegation there within weeks to exploit opportunities created by the American and European antinuclear sanctions that are increasingly disrupting Iran's economy.
The trade delegation announcement coincided with new reports that India, an important consumer of Iranian oil, had eclipsed China for the first time as Iran's No. 1 petroleum customer last month, subverting efforts by the United States to persuade other countries to find non-Iranian sources for their energy needs or risk onerous penalties under a new American sanctions law. 
The announcement also came ahead of a planned visit to India by Herman Van Rompuy, the European Union president, who was quoted in an interview with The Times of India as saying that he intended to seek the Indian government's help in pressing Iran to give up its nuclear program.
It was unclear whether Mr. Rompuy knew at the time of the interview that India's commerce secretary, Rahul Khullar, was about to announce a big economic push into Iran that could serve to counteract the effects of the very sanctions Mr. Rompuy has helped to promote.
''We will be mounting a mission to Iran at the end of the month to promote our own exports,'' Mr. Khullar told reporters in New Delhi, according to Indian and Western accounts of his news conference. ''A huge delegation will be going.''
In what amounted to a rejection of an underlying motive in the American-European sanction effort, Mr. Khullar said India already was honoring the four rounds of United Nations sanctions aimed at dissuading Iran from its uranium enrichment program. Those sanctions, he told reporters, do not apply to ''a vast range of products which India can export to Iran.''
Even if the United States and European Union wished to shun business with Iran, Mr. Khullar said, ''Tell me why I should follow suit?''
''Why shouldn't I take up that business opportunity?'' he asked.
The American and European sanctions are primarily aimed at Iran's central bank and oil industry. But they have begun to cause shortages, inflation and payment problems in Iran for a variety of other commodities by preventing Iran from making shipping, insurance and finance arrangements for imports.
The sanctions already had caused India and Iran difficulties on how to bypass new banking obstacles that had prevented India from paying Iran's oil bills.
In addition to the trade delegation news, the Indian newspaper The Economic Times reported Thursday that the Indian government had proposed a barter with Iran in which India would pay for some Iranian oil with Indian wheat. And Reuters reported that Iran was willing to accept rupees instead of dollars, the standard currency in oil transactions, for nearly half of the roughly $11 billion worth of oil that India buys from Iran annually.
India's attitude was welcomed by Iran, which has denied Western accusations that its uranium enrichment efforts mask a weapons program and has called the sanctions an attempt to bully the Iranian people into surrendering their legitimate right to peaceful nuclear energy.
Iranian news agencies prominently reported Thursday that Iran's crude exports to India had increased to 550,000 barrels a day in January, partly offsetting a reduction by China, which has long been Iran's top buyer, to 250,000 barrels a day. Those figures, first reported by The Wall Street Journal, showed that India was ''ignoring recent sanctions imposed by the U.S. and E.U. on importing Iran oil,'' the semiofficial Fars News Agency said.
Iran economic experts said the proposed India-Iran barter arrangement might be replicated by Iran and its other trading partners as a way to bypass the Western sanctions, particularly those that affect the payment abilities of Iran's central bank.
''Iran will barter oil for food, oil for cars,'' said Djavad Salehi-Isfahani, an economist at Virginia Tech University. ''They will find ways.''
India's possible role as a sanctions spoiler has not been lost on American lawmakers who have been aggressively seeking to penalize Iran. At a confirmation hearing on Tuesday before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, President Obama's nominee for ambassador to India, Nancy J. Powell, was bluntly questioned about the Iran issue by Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat who has helped push through some of the toughest sanctions on Iran.
The Indian government, Mr. Menendez said, ''seems to be rebuking the sanctions and looking for workarounds.'' Asked by Mr. Menendez what she would do about it, Mrs. Powell, a veteran diplomat, responded that she understood that ''this is going to be a very important topic and one of those that I will be dealing with very seriously and very early in my tenure.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012

 
